ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u1	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can get started. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:34]] They registered in the 407 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, today is the birthday of our colleagues: the sand of John and the oil of Volodymyr. Please welcome our colleagues, and wish you good health and success in your work. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on April 15, Thursday. 13 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: 3 laws and 4 decrees were passed, 1 bill and 1 draft decree were adopted on a basis, 5 bills and 1 draft regulation were rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what I said. I called Popescu and Oliynik the National Deputies on whose birthday they were born. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of our colleagues have moved to work in executive power structures that are incompatible with their presence in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They made appropriate statements to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed their statements and the preparation of the relevant draft regulations that we need to consider. No objections? It introduces a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Rijuk Sergio Mikolaiovich. [[10:02:46]] For 328 Decision taken. I'm betting on a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 6254-1, on the suspension for the term of office of Ukraine's national deputy, Titenka Sergey Mihajlovich. [[10:03:18]] For 332 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Jarti Vasil Georgievic. Registration number 6254-2. [[10:03:48]] For 344 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Burlakov Pavel Mikolajovic. [[Registration number 6254-3]] [[10:04:19]] For 344 Decision taken. The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Papiev Mikolayayovich (registration number 6254-4). [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:04:50]] For 350. Decision taken. The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Matviychuk Yedouard Leonidovic. [[Registration number 6254-5]] [[10:05:22]] For three hundred Decision taken. I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Toluba Sergio Borisovich. Registration number 6254-6. [[10:05:52]] For 355 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Zmmir Jury Pavlovich. Registration number 6254-7. [[10:06:23]] For 351 Decision taken. I am voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Kruglov Mikoli Petrovich. Registration number 6254-8. [[10:06:55]] For 359 Decision taken. I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Villekula Jurijovic. Registration number 6254-9. [[10:07:28]] For 358 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Portnova Andrija Volodimirovic. Registration number 6254-10. [[10:07:59]] For 362 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Petrov Boris Fedorovic. Registration number 6254-11. [[10:08:29]] For 362 Decision taken. Thank you. I ask the secretariat to send immediately appropriate information to the Central Electoral Commission so that it can have a basis for making appropriate decisions. Dear National Deputies! I see, I see, now. Dear National Deputies! The Friday schedule is defined, if there are suggestions, comments, please in one minute from the factions. One minute, please, who will be. Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Indeed, there is an implementation of the Constitution regarding the termination of the powers of national deputies in connection with the transition to work that is incompatible with parliamentary activity. But we still have a number of deputies, a 20-day term, which is stipulated by the legislation and the Constitution, whose powers are out, but they haven't written a statement yet. The deadline was 10 April, 10 April, 10 April, 10 April, and 12 April. Not yet did Costaseus, Suhi, Demiscan, and Larine make a statement. These are the deputies who took office in the executive branch. So I wanted to go to the faction leaders who were represented by these deputies so that the Constitution would be enforced, because the violation of the Constitution was not given to anyone. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u3	Please have any more comments and suggestions from other factions? You don't? Please, Yuri Carmazin. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay! All right, all right!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u4	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, three days ago, I spoke from this high rostrum about the fact that the blocked decision that was taken on 28 January of this year on the creation of the next commission to investigate the circumstances of the kidnapping from state property, the State residence of “Mježirja”. Since January 28, this ruling, voted in the Supreme Council Hall, has not been issued, the commission of inquiry has been unable to work, and then you have given the commission to the committee. In my opinion, Mr. Ephraim's committee is blocking this, that's the first question I'd like to hear, your answer in person. And secondly, about the rights of opposition, including the leadership of those committees that are controlling.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u5	Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, let us agree this way, if we make statements on the issue, there, the compositions of the parliamentary powers, at least we must act in the same way. But when a person makes a statement on the composition of the authority of the people's representative of Moscow, he does not vote in favour of these powers during the year, then some moral and moral problems may arise. With regard to the members of the Party of the Regions, these deputies will soon be delegating and there will be no problems here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u7	Honourable National MPs, regarding the proposals and comments made by our colleagues, on the grounds that not all MPs have written statements as required by the Constitution and the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking the secretariat today to prepare appropriate letters, I'm going to sign a letter to the National MPs, to those national MPs who haven't written a request for credentials. If not, after a twenty - day term, the committee has the right to consider and to consider the matter and to submit to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine what I am going to do. With regard to the interim commission of inquiry and the reminder of National Deputy Yuri Karmazin, I inform you that, after the initial information given by our colleague Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, I immediately signed a letter of address, a commission to the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to respond appropriately to the observations of the Ukrainian National Deputy. I'm waiting for answers to determine how to proceed. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with articles 25 and 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, “Year of questions to the Government” is held on Friday from 10 to 11. Representatives of non-compartment MPs on the Conciliation Council made a proposal during the “Year of Questions to the Government” to members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to answer questions relating to the preparation and progress of spring-field work. Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the following rules for the holding of “Years of questions to the Government” are set: 30 minutes is referred to questions to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; from the MP factions that do not form part of the coalition that do not form part of the coalition, based on part six of article 229 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have been informed in advance of the questions they will be asked. Following the government’s replies to these questions pursuant to article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, 30 minutes are available for questions to and answers to members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thus, to answer today's questions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be Minister of Agrarian Politics of Mikola Jurynuk. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! Before answering your questions, I would like to brief you on the situation in the agricultural sector. Today, of course. Today's topical issue is that of spring-field work. And I want to assure you here that, despite the problems that exist, there will be no breakdowns in its conduct. The spring-field works go according to plan and will be completed in time, taking into account the climate-climate adjustments, even though we had a long winter, and what started with the solstice without the state budget. Previously, the total crop area of 2010 will be 20.9 million hectares, exceeding last year's. Of the 8.2 million hectares of winter grain, 87 percent of the crops are good and satisfied, and the remaining 13 percent are estimated to be weak and congruent, including about 5 percent of the winters, and about 1 million acres [1 million ha] of winter. Today we're feeding the winter on 84% grain, we're planning to complete the feeding on April 20-22. Sugar beet is sown today at an area of 19,000 acres [19,000 ha], which is about 50 percent planned. A forecast of 420,000 hectares [420,000 ha] of sugar beet crops this year, which is about to be increased by 100,000 hectares since last year. It's about resources. Of the reported 787 thousand mineral fertilizers, there are 700,000, or about 90 percent, of which some 300,000 fertilizers have already been used. More than 10,000 tons of plant protection products have already been purchased, that is, enough to protect plants today. Farmers have their own seed of bright grains and grain beans without corn of 1.4 million tons and are provided with 105 percent. And all the seeds are prepared for sowing. Inflammation of manufacturers is 400 thousand tons or 87 percent as needed; gasoline is 97,000 tons, 90 percent as needed, and technology, as far as it can be said, is practically 95 percent prepared. I want to say that the soybean is still going on in a perfectly normal way. The situation under control and all emerging problems are being dealt with quickly by Minagpolitans together with the government. Of course, there were, and will be, painful points in the agrarian sector, such as the cost of fuel oil and fertilizers, and the issue is important enough: lending crops for spring-field jobs. But together with other ministries and departments, Minpalevenergo, Nazbanku, we practically solved them. Today, banks under 18-20 percent are lending agrarians. Businesses have already taken credit for more than one and a half billion dollars, about 12 percent more than last year. As for the situation in the agri-industrial complex as a whole. In the government at this point, there is a clear plan of action that will be able to bring the sector to a qualitatively new level. Because we realize that without a fundamental definition of priorities, it is virtually impossible to increase the agro-industry complex of gross production. Today, we need to set priorities and take new steps in the agri-industrial complex. So today we have these basic indicators. Gross production in January/March of all categories of farms increased by 5.3 percent compared to the corresponding 2009 period. The volume of gross production has increased in 20 regions. On March 1, 10, the budget was set at 4.1 billion dollars from agribusiness enterprises. A 25 - percent increase in income from the Pension Fund. The external trade surplus of agroproducts is positive and is $700 million. At the same time, there are problems in the agricultural sector today that have always been and are all known. This is a reduction in the head of the cattle. This is a decline in food production, in processing. This is an increase in prices in the internal food market. In January/March, the index of consumer prices for food and non-alcoholic beverages was 108 percent. Low levels of credit and imperfect lending mechanisms, low growth in agrarian infrastructure. Unsolved problems in land relations. Low social infrastructure development in the village. Dear National Deputies! Minegropolitics today have the task of eliminating all these problems, improving the agro-industry rate, and increasing export potential. Today, by studying the current situation and world trends and opportunities and trends in our country’s internal market, we are working on such priorities. First of all, we need to create an agrarian bank to serve farmers and relationships in the land market. The creation of an agricultural insurance company for agricultural risk insurance operations and support for farmers; the creation and addition of agricultural market status for more efficient promotion of Ukraine to external markets; the creation of a government company “Zerno Ukraine”, which could become an efficient operator, a public operator, a grain market and not allow price fluctuations in crop harvesting; and the creation of a state mortgage bank. These tasks are included in the economic reform programme, which will be implemented in Ukraine through the joint efforts of the President of Ukraine and the Government. A working group is already in operation in the ministry under the vote of Deputy Prime Minister Slauti Viktor Andriyovich on the implementation of economic reforms in the agri-industrial complex. I emphasize that radicalism will not happen in the implementation of agrarian reforms. These are systemic, gradual, constructive changes, taking into account previous acquisitions and errors, which stimulate the dynamic development of the agro-industry complex. The priority areas for agricultural reform are those of the system-based industries that are most dependent on food security and export potential, namely, the priority areas that we have identified: vegetation, porking and dairy farming. Why Planting? Because this is 50 percent of the export component of the agri-industrial complex. Both the power and the potential of the plant have not yet been used, more than 50 percent. Why Pigs? By nature and by climate conditions, and according to tradition, Ukraine has a powerful potential for increasing the size of pigs. And we also understand clearly in import statistics that we import a lot of pork meat. And that's also because it's short enough money that can work and rotate about 2.5 times a year. Why Dairy Breeding? Milk farming is a very difficult sector, it's quite expensive, but it's clear to us that today the state of the dairy sector, which is today, cannot be seen by society or the ministry as a whole. After all, dairy farming is a factory for the processing of all agricultural agricultural products, which may not be a source of raw material. And the situation that we have today, the headhead, which is like 33-34 years old, certainly doesn't have the right to life. And the import of dairy products from Belarus and other countries is another one. In conclusion, agrarian science and agrarian education are also priorities. Our task is with you to make agrarian science that has a powerful potential and, by the way, has a demand for external markets, our task is to put it in place and install an agro-industrial complex. Agrarian science is also required to be installed and not to be separated from the agribusiness complex. Of course, an important enough question is government administration of agriculture. We now have a vertical management of the agro-industry complex at the level of the 1990s, and an agro-industry complex with more than 98 percent market relations. And of course, under all of these priorities, we're going to have to form a budget for the following year, 2011 so that every penny in the budget allocated to the agro-industry complex is a motivation for investment and low-interest lending. Thank you for your attention. Now let me answer the questions we've been asked. First, we got nine questions you asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u9	Mikola Volodymyrovich, let's do it this way: according to the Rules. Please answer the written questions. When there is time left, they still have representatives of factions and MPs who do not join the coalition to ask questions directly. After that half an hour is recorded, and all the MPs who signed up ask questions. Let me briefly ask you some questions. Letters.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u10	Question: "How will the Minegropolitics support measures to protect, reproduce and increase soil fertility if there are no funds available for this?" You all know that the Law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u11	This is a list of issues under the signature of John Kirilenko. That's it. Heads of factions. I ask you, fellow Members, in accordance with the Rules: half an hour is the answer to written questions, after half an hour is the question from the MPs. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u12	The answer. Ukraine’s Law of 04.06.2009 “On amending certain laws of Ukraine ” provides for an increase in the responsibility of landowners and land users for the depletion of land resources, which in turn will contribute to the preservation of soil fertility and will shape a caring attitude toward national wealth in the minds of the landowners. [[1443]] [[on soil fertility conservation]] You know, the Cabinet of Ministers regulation of February 11, 10th, No. 164, “On the adoption of the best crop ratio standards in the sums of various natural and agricultural areas”, and this decision recommended that local authorities allocate about 80 percent of the total fund to these measures. And we clearly understand that in the new functions of the agro-industrial complex, market relations will be the issue of sperm control and soil fertility. And whatever form there is in land relations, the requirements for preserving soil fertility and for maintaining the harvest will be mandatory for any landowner or tenant of agricultural land. Of course, we're going to try in Project 2011. We will try to work on the Ukrainian Budget Act to motivate the landowner, or the landowner, to have a motivation to increase the fertility of the soil to maintain and maintain the crops. But if we start radical changes here, we clearly understand that we can balance that balance, it's kind of out of proportion to science. But if we're now radically starting to control the sums, you and I are going to be able to balance the agri-industrial complex's delicate balance. Question: How will the Agrarian Insurance Grants Fund, mechanisms and funding be provided in 2010? You know that the Act on State Support for Agriculture in Ukraine envisaged the creation of an agrarian insurance subsidy fund. But they weren't created, and today this fund doesn't work. Taking this into account, in the 2010 draft budget, we are predicting 80 million dollars to make sure that the cost of insurance premiums can be costed. But you know, in the Supreme Council, there was the first reading of a bill that was just about the characteristics of insurance for agricultural products with state financial support. This bill, it's worked out, along with the world institutions that work in the insurance agrarian business. And it provides for the mutual obligations of farmers, farmers, and owners who produce agricultural products and countries. This bill provides that 50 insurance premiums will be compensated by the State. And those who guard their prey or livestock are not liable to the insurance company for this 50 percent. Next is the government’s question to support the agro-industry complex and, in particular, the government’s regulation of the cultivation of basic agricultural crops due to the unjustified increase in the cropland of rape, soybeans and other technical crops, and the decline in the soybeans ’ soybeans. In the current year, the total soybean area will be 26.9 million hectares, 42,000 hectares more than last year. The grain wedge will be located at an area of 5.7 million hectares, but in general. And in general, it will meet the scientificly recommended standards. Sugar beets this year, we're going to plant at 422, 2,000 hectares, 100,000 acres more than last year, or 24 percent. State support for the production and production of a 1,000 - dollar sugar beet plant is foreseen. It is reduced by 500,000 acres [500,000 ha] under barley and expands by 300,000 under corn to grain and increases the area under soybeans by 150,000 hectares. And it also decreases by 500,000 sown areas of the sunflower. This is, by the way, a positive trend towards preserving, coming and maintaining agro-industrial harvesting. In collaboration with the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, smallpolytics have established strict control over the optimal structure of sown areas and the movement of winter crops. Today, the Ministry together at the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, at the task of Vice-Prime Minister, has begun to develop passports for the area, taking into account that we, each district manager, have a clear understanding of how much effort the Academy of Agricultural Sciences should carry 100 hectares of agricultural land in one climate zone or another. I believe that this document is important enough to allow the management of areas to control and control seismics, to control soil fertility, and to understand clearly how much gross product it is obliged to produce in its territory. Whether there is a government programme to improve credit, reduce credit rates for agrarians, and grant certain bank benefits. You know, starting in 2000, there's been a budget program for the credit of agrarian enterprises. Every year, almost 85 percent of credit companies receive partial interest from the budget. The amount of credit from 15 to 25 dollars, depending on the year of tax credits, is included in one of the budget bracelets. There is also an arrangement for the use of budget funds to support agribusiness enterprises through a five - year-old credit-loss mechanism. And this allows agrarians to plan their activities in the long run. The 2010 draft budget provides 1.2 billion dollars for interest on credit, which will allow for the cost of the 7-9-year transitional loans in the range of five billion and loans, which were also included in the 10th year, in the amount of 5-5.5 billion dollars. In addition, a joint meeting was held with other ministries, the National Bank and commercial banks, where it was determined that the stability in the country allows today to issue loans for the agro-industry complex more boldly, under lower percentages, and today you know that they are, 18-20 percent. And also loans for unfinished construction are equal to loans for future crops, farm loans, and loans for future livestock production. It's a big enough weight, and we're also working with the National Bank and commercial banks today to allocate long-term credits so that we can start building intensive animal complexes that will allow us to slow down the decline in the milk herd and increase the production of milk. In the future, we plan to continue the initiative to create an Agrarian Bank, a state-owned Agrarian Bank, which will allow loans to receive fairly low interest rates. Questions. What is envisaged by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to lower fuel oil prices? During the spring-field work period this year, an order was issued by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since December 23, 2009, according to which the oil and gas processing plant was used to supply the oil and gas to farmers. But this mechanism has provided an opportunity to meet the needs of the agro-industry complex by no more than 10 percent. And so, having an operator's commercial structure, there's no way that this fuel came up with 100 percent of the fuel. And by such a decree, the Shebelin factory produced 44,000 tons of light - colored petroleum products. Now, there's a vision, a joint meeting from Minpalevenergo was held today, where it was commissioned to work out a scheme of non-avral supply of fuel-oil materials for sowing and harvesting, and plans that require that, together with the Ministry, we work out mechanisms for disposing of light oil products for Ukrainian production, as well as imports, and that conditions of implementation be only through a public operator, i.e. an operator of the Ministry of Agricultural Policy, and this gives us the opportunity, having a solid representation of the structure of the Ministry of Agricultural Policy in the areas and in the areas, I believe that we will be able to work out this new scheme by the end of the harvest. “What is envisaged by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the reduction of mineral fertilizer prices?” You know, mineral fertilizer is a pretty important ingredient in the agro-industrial complex in spring-field labor and in winter sowing. And you know that for some time there was a declaration of intentions between authorized representatives of farmers and domestic chemical enterprises for the supply of mineral fertilizers, which set the limit price level for the ammonia saltpeter – not more than 2 thousand 250 grevens, carbonite – 2,000 600 bracelets, amphosus – 4,000 200, superphosphate 2000 and nitroamphosic – 3,300. Let's move on. Today, there are virtually no problems in fertilizers in the agribusiness complex. All chemical plants operate in a certain mode, and the prices for mineral fertilizers have declined. It is the Prime Minister's job to work out the cost mechanism for chemical factories as a gas so that an agro-industry complex can obtain cheap fertilizers. At the President's last meeting, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy, along with producer factories and the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, was responsible for holding a meeting and providing cheap fertilizers to the agro-industry complex. Also in the 2010 budget, the projected funding for fertilizer costs of 300 million dollars of phosphorous fertilizers will reduce the cost of superphosphate, amphos, and nitroamphosic. “Will the practice of the Government of Timoshenko be introduced in granting subsidies to producers of animal production?” Of course, you know that animal subsidies are an important part of Ukraine's budget spending in the agricultural complex segment. Of course, Timoshenko’s government continued its initiatives and what had been initiated by previous governments. And today our task is to work, to continue the previous mechanism, which was envisaged in the agro-industrial complex, to preserve it and state support to motivate the production of both milk and meat of all animal species. But what I want to say is that since all the budget subsidies that have been allocated in previous times, and from 1990 to this year, animal production has been allocated about 32 billion dollars and there has been a steady decline. What does this talk about? This suggests that a certain amount of budget was not allocated effectively or disbursed. The 2010 budget project was projected as it had been in previous years. But we're going to be preparing for the 11th-year animal budget project to be done in such a way that every bracelet allocated to animalry is a motivation: firstly saving the head, secondly raising the head, and thirdly creating large-scale production, i.e. farms, 150 heads and above. Why? Because today our task is to control the extent to which we grow both milk and meat. “What steps have been taken by the new government to carry out the spring-field work this year?” You know, in the previous speech and in the previous questions, I've practically talked about what actions have been taken by the agro-industry complex in order to do effective field work. And I think virtually spring-field work will go smoothly. And to this day, our main task is to prepare for the harvest. What's the segment? Our task is to prepare for harvesting, so that the State through the Agrarian Fund can become an active player in price policy in harvesting so that we can give producers the opportunity to sell grain at that price, which is, firstly, not below their own cost, the second, which exists generally in the external markets of grains. So I think that once we've done and finished our spring-field work, we'll be preparing for an effective harvest.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u13	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the minister. It's a recording. And let's make a deal. Question is one minute. The answer is in 2 minutes. So that as many people as possible can ask questions. Our national deputy, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u14	Nadosha Oleg, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you. What do you think are the ways to achieve efficiency in rural housing? We know what you're hearing, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u15	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u16	I'd like to know your ways out of the situation where housing and utilities are now in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. You know, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy is practically loaded. In addition, to produce agricultural products, to implement effective methods, and to regulate agricultural production, and to enter external markets, the social situation of the Ukrainian village is still strained. This question is difficult enough, and it is not in the field of responsibility of one agrarian ministry. Why? Because we understand that in view of the fact that the State has not taken up courage to this day and has failed to respond to the rural farmers and inhabitants, which form is a priority for the development of an agrarian complex in our country. I think that in the near future we should say that it is a priority, what form and then the consequences will be. Today, we realize clearly that the position that is imposed on us from the outside is not, and that model is not pleasant for the development of our Ukrainian village. Why? Because some 2 percent of the country’s population lives in developed countries, including the rural population, we have more than 33 percent. And our task is to preserve Ukrainian villages, and to date we, along with the Ministry of Housing and Utilities, the Ministry of Social Protection and the Ministry of Education, are obliged to work on a mechanism that will halt the degradation of Ukrainian villages and allow us to grow on the basis of a suspended platform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u18	Thank you. Anatoly Matvienko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u19	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” Block. Mikolo Volodymyrovich, I wish you to be an effective minister, and once again I heartily tell you this. But I want to ask you two questions. Given the trends today in food and energy supply, it is clear that Ukraine is now or is not the most sacred opportunity to consider the agricultural sector to be the most sacred priority, to enter the world markets, and to provide itself with these two ingredients. Unfortunately, I don't hear it in today's speech, or in yesterday's program, which was presented to the agrarian sector as a matter of priority. I want to ask you: “Do you think so, if so, what can we do to help you change the emphasis of all government on the sanctity of this priority?” And the second. Do you realize that without the earth’s market, there will be nothing? You once said I didn't get it. So we move to the market of the earth or.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. Questions are relevant enough. I thank you for asking me these questions, because for our agricultural sector in the Cabinet of Ministers, it is a priority to recognize an agro-industrial complex as a priority in the economy of Ukraine. And today we are producing gross output of 115 billion from 900 billion of the whole country. And the potential on the basis of our Ukrainian land is 500 to 520 billion dollars. And that tells us that at low cost we can increase this potential. And today our task is to convince all branches of government that the agricultural sector is a priority and that the next task of the government and all branches of government is dynamic, even with national selfishness, to move Ukrainian food to the external markets. Because today’s volume of bulls, with the exception of two areas: meat and fish, we practically produce much more than we eat. And today our task is to go to the external markets so that we don't stop in traffic with you and then have no feedback from previous years: we're increasing the volume, the price is falling and we're going down again. And it's clear that in order to achieve this, there are certain priorities: vegetation, porking, dairy, inclusion, integration of Ukrainian science with its achievements, things that are recognized at the external level and inclusion, the incorporation of Ukrainian education. I'm the one who answered the first question. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u21	The national deputy Velizanski and Bodnar pass the law. I'm asking you, come on, so many signed up, to answer briefly. When you have something to say, answer briefly. Then. National MPs Velizanski and Bodnar pass on the right to raise questions to Oleg Lášk. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u22	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, you will inform us that it is as if your government has developed some sort of anti-crisis program to save the village. But what I want to say is that the village doesn't need an anti-crisis program, because over the last five months, agricultural production has been increasing by 5.3 percent, that is, an important village, not to interfere, but to help prevent the anti-crisis programs of the Yanukovich government from causing a new crisis in our own village. That's right, to the known information. And now the question. During Timoshenko’s headship, the country’s government spent a considerable amount of money on gasification, road construction, energy conservation in schools, kindergartens, FAPach, and so on, equipment for rural outpatients. Is your government planning to reinvigorate the program? Because, as far as I'm concerned, the Department of Health's warehouses were loaded with medical equipment that was purchased by the government of Timoshenko, but unfortunately, in rural hospitals, this equipment is not available at the infirmary. And do you not consider this to be a priority after the Euro-2012 programme for the construction and development of the rural social sphere? And do you not see the need to restore the standard in the rural development priority law, to restore the standard of compensation to agricultural enterprises for social development costs? That is, when enterprises invest their money in social development, the state will compensate them for these expenses. Because you know the situation in the country: there is no roads, schools are closing down, and schools are the center of life in the country, the FAP are half ruined about, and so on, and so on. So what kind of attention, apart from the general phrases, is going to be specific attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u23	Thank you for asking, Mr. Oleg. I want to point out that the word “anti-crisis” has never been used or used. For me, it's an antipod at large, and the agro-industrial complex has never cried and will not cry that it's in crisis. And we said that the government is doing a priority development program. Our task is to define two, three priorities so that we don't scatter the budget and do it in scientific calculations, it's those areas that are closely involved not only in the agro-industry complex and in other ministries. And we will do so without fail. And we've been motivating the budget since the 11th year in such a way that the funds allocated to the agro-industry complex, 40 percent will be channelled on a non-refundable basis -- financing, compensation for farm construction, pigs and basic products, and the purchase of headquarters and interest compensation. And 60 percent of budgeted support -- on a back-up basis, through an agrarian fund, and through agrarian lysing -- that will allow you to motivate for one bracelet removed from the government budget, more than 20-25 bracelets involved by investors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u24	Social sphere.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u25	Now, as far as the social sphere is concerned, you know. According to the government of Yanukovich, a billion dollars were budgeted for the construction of rural housing. And today, we understand clearly, after a survey of rural areas, we understand what I was talking about to involve.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u26	Please finish. Did you complete the answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u27	Involve, involve science, and young experts in the countryside. Our task for the rural community to be defined by farming, by the form of farming, without creating ready-made cooperatives is to assist, it's to help, and it's to create productive cooperatives if the community wants to. And everyone. For every 100 hectares, there was a veterinarian, zootechnician, agronomist, and other experts needed for the village. There's another way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u28	Yes, thank you. Sidelnik People's Deputies, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u29	Give Kravczuk the word, Vasil Kravczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u30	Vasil Kravchuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u31	Vasil Kravchuk, Timoshenko Street. Mikola Volodymyrovic, in 2008-2009, when the government headed Julia Timoshenko, these were years of unprecedented crops. Even in 2009, thanks to the support of the government, Timoshenko was allocated an agrarian fund of 3 billion dollars, allowing peasants to sow and harvest beautiful crops. What Is Happening Today? The new government of Azarov has not yet met with agrarians, the agrarian fund is not working, the soybean is being paid by the costs that have been left in the peasants since last year and by the cutting up of livestock. The price of milk, the meat is falling, the prices of fertilizers, fuel oil materials, the remedies are rising.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u32	Please complete the question. And I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u33	Question is, when does the agrarian fund finally work? And what are the specific numbers for support that you're planning to involve in animal production?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we can do this: two minutes is enough to form a question. It will automatically be turned off and will not continue these campaigns “for” and “against”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. The question is interesting enough. And you know, in previous answers, I said that the agrarian fund is a financial tool that will allow price regulation in the internal market and the state to take the first step towards becoming a grain operator both in the internal market and in the export market. But it also agrees with what's been allocated to 3 billion. And the agrarians thanked for that. But let's see what's left of the Agrarian Fund: 180,000 tons of grain is scarce, 120,000 tons of grain is rotten. And the price of grain in the agrarian fund today is an average of 1,550 dollars, taking into account the purchase and storage. So today we have an agrarian fund tool. Of course, the Agrarian Fund will clean up, it will work. And the 2010 budget provides about 5 billion dollars to fill the agrarian fund’s circulation costs. With regard to the holding of agrarians. I think you're being mean here because the meetings with the agrarians are held under the chairmanship of the vice-premier practically every week, or two times a week. The Prime Minister held a meeting with agrarians, and the President of the country held a meeting with the governors yesterday to discuss how the agro-industry works and prospects were being developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u36	Sergey Sobolev, faction of the "Timoshenko Street".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u37	Please pass on the word Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u38	Yuri Gnatkevich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u39	Thank you. Mikolo Volodymyrovich, my brother Stepan, is in the village. He still suffers from being beaten by wheat by the hailstone. He's still suffering. My relatives in Canada say, and we are always happy when the hailstone breaks out our wheat because we will be paid for it. What prospects do we have for agrossing in Ukraine? And the second. And my uncles say that they're willing to give us in a few villages to make car tractor stations cheap, at the expense of cheap tractors, combines to set us up, or even used technology that they don't use, but we still have a good one. What's the perspective of our collaboration with overseas construction we have machine-tractor stations as models. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. Of course, I've already said in my speech that agro-prudentialism is a special kind of activity that should be controlled and managed by the financial state. And the bill, which was first read in the Supreme Council, will just give the opportunity to take it up and adopt it, will allow the state to form a fund to be held jointly with the producers to bear responsibility for the payment of the agrarian premiums. And we don't want to, but this kind of activity should also be a priority in the agrarian sector. Because the agrarian sector is more affected by climate conditions, as they say: in the agrarian sector, four problems are winter, spring, summer and autumn. So there's no insurance here. As far as agricultural technology is concerned, you know that agrarian lysing works, works, and increases the volume of lysing each year. And as of today, there's an agreement between the Gomelsilmash, which has a lysing line in its country, that they're ready for $30 million without State guarantees, without bank guarantees to give lysing as a combine. And today, we're going to negotiate the creation of a joint venture based on the Herson Combin Factory. You also know that Rosilmash today, Vice-Prime Minister Slauta went to a meeting in Russia, and today there are talks about including the lysing system of Russian agricultural techniques and involving them in agricultural production in Ukraine. The important point that we want to offer is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u41	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u42	It's that the percentage that worked, by the way, the agrolysis suggested that the percentage of production should be reduced from 50 to 30 in order for foreign firms to come and place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u43	Thank you. Jaroslav Kenzior refers the right of Roman Tuck to the question, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u44	Roman Tkac, group “For Ukraine!” Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, I'm here. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, the first brief question, and the second, the proposal. That's the point. You and I, as colleagues of the committee for two years, discussed the issue of farm management. Regrettably, the Soviet, Soviet administration system remained too large for today: ministries, district administrations, district administrations, along with many more superstructures, old rudiments remained: “Food meat”, “Food milk” and so on. In addition, new social organizations have been formed. Mikola Volodymyrovich, something needs to be done about this right now, because on the one hand, experts have gone, we know that there are really experts, because there is very little money. And yet this process has to be managed, this is one part of the question. And secondly, you know, I was yesterday, that's more Victor Andryovich probably applies, a little sad when in the government program I've never seen anything as important to the village as the occupation of the rural population. It was said in the government's employment program, but...
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u45	Please finish, dear fellows, and others are outraged.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u46	Not a word was said about the occupation of the rural population. Nobody talks about it, the Ministry doesn't talk about it, because it's kind of manufacturing, the Employment Center -- they have their own problems at all, the Ministry of Social Policy -- their own problems. Viktor Andriyovich and Mikola Volodymyrovich, one day this issue of rural employment needs to be resolved by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u47	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u48	Thank you for asking, Mr. Roman, yes, of course we've been working on this problem all the time. And I said in my speech that reform, maybe I don't really like that word, but reforming the executive branch of power in the agro-industrial complex today on time. Because the functions that the Ministry, district and district administrations perform today are not entirely relevant to market relations and the conditions of today's economy. Because today we have, for example, 15 inspections of different directions in the Ministry. Today the advisory service is at our level, you could say, the first step, that is, the ministry has to rebuild its structure in such a way, first of all, that the vertical is: the ministry, the area, the area. Secondly, in order to perform its own functions, i.e. the advisory service, i.e. development strategy, i.e. analysis and forecasting, and the development of external economic spaces for the sale of our Ukrainian products, and the creation of a logistics network so that the agricultural products grown today in the private sector could reach the consumer. This is the Ministry's job. As far as public organizations are concerned. Of course, public organizations are, are, are, and are necessary. We're at the Ministry of Public Organizations today, and it's decided that public organizations will determine priority and influential public organizations in the field, and the Ministry will cooperate with one, actively cooperate with the defined sector of production by the public organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u49	National MP Tishchenko, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Transfers the right to a question to Sergey Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Minister! A few questions from Kirovgrad. First. I think that's true of other regions, it's almost impossible to get a loan. The other one. The suppliers of mineral fertilizers and elite seeds are not currently operating on a credit scheme. Those who provide plant protection products under the credit scheme work, but not less than 30 percent of the age; traders have so far drastically reduced the price of grain and sunflower. How your government and ministry, in particular, plan to deal with these issues, because the soybeans in Kirovgrad are already on the move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. I agree that this is not just about Kirovgrad, but about all the agrarians. I've already heard about credit issues that there have been a number of meetings in the Cabinet of Ministers today to increase the allocation of loans. And the loans are increasing, the loans are getting bigger, and as of today, the banks have concentrated about 70 billion dollars that they're willing to issue. And the interest on loans is significantly reduced. And he's already said that the question that banks went to loan unfinished construction, that is, future crops, that is, construction of new farms and new crops, is that financial institutions today have regained confidence in the agricultural sector. Because the agricultural sector, I think, is the most responsible and disciplined in terms of repayment of loans and payment of interest. In the agricultural sector, the loan return rate is 98 percent. I don't think there's any borrowers in other areas who might say that the rate of repayment to financial institutions is that high. That's the first one. With regard to fertilizers, seeds, and plant protection. Of course, the question of traders and intermediaries, it's in a market relationship, it was and probably will be. And our task today is to find the optimal solution for ministries and district councils to the minimum price between the value of the sale and the price of the consumer. We clearly understand that this is not possible under state regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u52	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u53	Mr. Secretary, it's obviously not so important that you're a proponent of anti-crisis politics, post-crisis, preventive policy. Question one. Do you think that there is an agricultural policy in Ukraine, including a long - term strategy? The second question. What's in the budget, even though it's not there yet, you might say, what subsidies, how many billions, what loans, what interest rates? Because you say loans are low, interest is low. What does it mean to be low in agriculture? 30 is death, 20 is a crisis. And will you be developing a long - term policy? Which you are planning a gross congregation for this year, compared to the best of years. medium yield?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u54	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. The word politics and the agrarian complex, I think these two things are incompatible, especially in our society, when the word politics has a certain antagonism. There is a long-term programme for the economic development of the agro-industry complex based on prioritization and adaptation and science and education and reform of the executive branch of power. That's understandable. Of course, our question is enough. We have a very important question in our field: Earth. Because the land is the instrument that is and will be the catalyst for the involvement of investments and the mortgage to raise funds from banks. And of course, we will find a form of land market that would endanger food security. I'm talking about the creation of the State Land Fund, where the state, today, after examining agricultural land, will be able to take more than 3.5 million acres [3.5 million ha] of land, which is inextricable and located in the state. Today, by the way, one million acres [8 million ha] of agricultural land is being diverted from the roads, processed for which no one receives money, no state, no rural community. So who's eating? Who is the name on this? Rentars. This is an important question. And today the question of the earth is important. Today, a million acres [100 ha] of land, the owners of the pies have died, the heirs have not turned and the tenants have relations with the dead souls. The question is also important. As far as interest is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u56	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u57	30 percent, I agree with you, death. And that was last year, and there were probably conditions for that. And there were reasons. 18-20 percent today, with a billion 200 dollars off the budget for compensation, I think that's exactly what today and today's month is acceptable. And I'm confident that interest on loans will go down. And if we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The year of questions to the Government is over. Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please sit down. For reasons of what? For reasons of what?Oh, my God! Dear colleagues, let's do this. For the first time, it was the government's hour. The next time it is clear: Questions and Answers, a minute of questions, two minutes to answer, since MPs are not satisfied that they have been unable to ask questions. And everything you think about the minister, you tell him there. Here you have the opportunity to speak publicly about it. Honorable national MPs according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations on Friday take 30 minutes to issue parliamentary requests. Allow me to make the parliamentary inquiries that have come from the national deputies of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legislative Security to the President of Ukraine on the Verification of the Facts set out in the publication "Reaction" (Lion Bank Edition, No.92 of March 26, April 1, 2010). I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:23:07]] For-60 The MP's request is not supported. Vladimir CAPLIENKA to the President of Ukraine on human rights violations in the Donetsk region. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:23:34]] For-42 Request not supported. Alexia ZURAVKA to the President of Ukraine on the unconstitutionality of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the appointment of the head of the Zaporozian Court of Commerce. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:24:03]] For-160. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:24:24]] For-164 The decision is not taken. GREENEVECH to the President of Ukraine on the announcement of the Kuyalnicke Lyman and the rivers of his swimming pool as a zone of an extraordinary ecological situation. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[11:24:56]] For 252 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:25:14]] For 269 Decision taken. The Group of People's Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the need for an immediate referral by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the release from office of the Head of NBU W. Stelma, in view of the end of the term of office, because those losses that were caused by the management of the V. Stelma National Bank and its citizens in the form of the instability of the National Monetary Unit, the disruption of banking affairs, the disregard of the requirements of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which resulted in the mass robbery of the Ukrainian people, the loss of national currency, the refusal of banks to pay deposit and dividends to deposit depositors and gross violation of their constitutional rights and the subversion of the authority of the banking system, will be minimized only after the immediate fulfilment of the requirements of the Constitution of the Republic of Ukraine from December 2009. [[CAMERINCHUKA, CARMASINE, AND OTHERS]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:26:31]] For-96 The decision is not taken. MOSKAL'S Gennadia to the President of Ukraine regarding the assignment of Stephen Clochurak the name Hero of Ukraine. [[Post-mortem]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:27:00]] For-38 Request not supported. Irina HERASTENKO and Olga HERASIMYUK to the President of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of establishing a Stalin monument in Zaporozhye. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:27:29]] For-141 The decision is not supported. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the need to comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Government Staff Units of the Anti-Corruption Act on the annual publication of information on the income of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its deputies, the Heads of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and their deputies, the National Deputies of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Chief and Judges of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court of Justice, the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine and its deputies. [[ARIEVA, DENMARK, AND OTHERS]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:28:26]] For-103 Request not supported. Mr. Andria PAVLOWSKI to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the failure to implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to submit a draft law on the amendment to articles 5 and 8 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to low-income families for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading. [[on aid at minimum of living]] The jury of Carmazina and Volodymira JAVORISKI to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for President V. Yanukovich to stop the abuse of his constitutional duties, and considering that he now, as his predecessor V.Jushenko, is personally responsible for the damage to citizens and the banking system of Ukraine, to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for exemption from the post of Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Stelmacha, in connection with the completion of the five-year term of office for which he was elected, since the losses that were incurred during the management of the B. Slemach of the National Bank of Ukraine were imposed on the State and its citizens in the form of the instability of the execution of the national currency, the deposit of the non-payment of the non-national government, the bankruptcy of the state bank of Ukraine, the state-owned state-owned state-owned and state-owned bank of the state-owned state-owned state-owned state of Ukraine. Igora SHAROVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to pay citizens the loss of money savings invested until 2 January 1992 in the institution of the savings bank of the USSR. Vladimir JAVORISKI to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Seminozhenko for the start of repression by the administrations of higher educational institutions against students who are taking part in the retirement campaign. A campaign for the resignation of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Dmitri Tobacco. Gennady ZADIRKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Mikolai District State Administration on the lack of a proper response by the authorities to ownership by the Society with limited responsibility of the Nibulon Agricultural Enterprise of 23 hectares of water and other illegal activities. Mr John STATION to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the temporary suspension of the position of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Seminozhenko at the time of the investigation by the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Security Service of Ukraine of anti-constitutional, anti-State and anti-Ukraine appeals. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of health facilities in the city of Nikopol Dnipropetrovsk, taking into account the location of the city in the 30 km zone of Zaporozki AES. Edouard PRUTNIK to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the State Committee for the Regulation of the Financial Services Markets of Ukraine on the need to review the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve the conditions of compulsory life insurance and health of veterinary specialists from February 22, 1994, which gives priority to the open-ended shareholder company "National Share Insurance Company Oranta" on the Ukrainian insurance market, which results in a restriction of competition and does not comply with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition. Igor ŠAROV to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to rehabilitate and modernize state-owned health care establishments, with a view to ensuring environmental, veterinary and epizootic well-being in Ukraine. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution to the problem of quality drinking water supply in the city of Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovsk. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cancellation of food certification in Ukraine. MICHELLE RUDEN to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the extraordinary event that took place in the city of Berdichov, in the region of Žitomir, as a result of the explosion of natural gas in a residential building. OXANA BILOSIR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of measures for the proper financial provision of Ukrainian cultural and educational institutions. Mr. Oleg TYCHENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee of Ukraine on Land Resources, Head of the Kiev City Government Administration on the inaction and failure of officials of the State Committee and the Kiev City Council in privatizing the Ukrainian citizen’s territory. Ms. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent allocation of funds for the purchase of vaccines for children's hospitals and clinics in the Dnipropetrovsk region. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take immediate preventive measures to regulate milk prices in personal support farms in Ukraine and to protect producers from the unscrupulous actions of dairy producers who receive income from the work of peasants. GREENEVECH to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures to create safe living conditions for the population in the watertight territory of Ukraine’s Danube. LITHUANIA'S Jury to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of abuses and violations of the constitutional rights of citizens of the Krenicen territorial community of the Province of Kyrovograd in the privatization of land by the private agricultural enterprise “Ukraine”. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State Budget to complete the construction of the "Heat Supply System, New Town Village, City of Kirovograd-Reconstruction". [[2nd Queue]] Groups of Ukrainian National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures aimed at providing young people with housing. [[SCHOOL, MARJENKO, AND OTHER SCHOOLS]] Andrija ŠEVCHENKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the prosecution of the criminal responsibility of the former President of the city of Fastov, Vladimir Timothy. Victor MATCHUKA to the Minister of Transport and Communications of Ukraine, the State Motorway Service of Ukraine, for the provision of uninterrupted traffic by road of national importance M-07 while repairing the area from the return to the village of Barvarovka to the border of the Plain region. Valeria BARANOVA to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on compensation for the damage caused by the transfer of passengers to Zaporijetrotrans. Aleksandra VASILJEVA to the Minister of Coal Industry of Ukraine on the environmental threat posed by raising the subterranean waters of the Korotchenka mine in the city of Selidové Donetské region. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, for the provision of information on the legality of the administrative actions of the temporary administrator of the right state by 99.97 per cent of the Rodood Bank Shareholder. GREGORY OF REFERENCE to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the appointment of a review of the fulfilment of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons without Citizenship by the State Department of Citizenship, Immigration and Registration of Individuals of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. John STATION to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the anti-constitutional, anti-government and anti-Ukrainen appeals by Vice-Prime Minister Vladimir Seminoženko of Ukraine. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on speeding up the introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine on the request of the Head of the Sørn district administration of the Plain region for amendments to the Ukrainian Planning and Construction Act. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Coal Industry of Ukraine for mining work, which could lead to the destruction of the city of Sosniuk Lvivsk. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on the need for the harmonization of requirements and the determination of the order of taxation of charitable aid. Alexia PLOTNIKOVA to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, regarding the dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP's request for failure to execute a three-year sentence on the payment of unpaid pension to military pensioner Galina Maczynska, resident of the city of Berdičeva. GORDIENKA to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for unwarranted detention, fabricating a criminal case, delaying its consideration, the need for an independent forensic and medical expertise in the case of the resident of the Poltav region of Viacheslav Tkachenka. SERGEANT MOSHACA to the Human Rights Council of the United States of America for the violation of the rights of orphans of the Clear Children's House, located on the street of Saratovska, 20 in the Shevchenkov district of Kyiv. Ulysses MOSTIPAN to the Ukrainian Minister for Family, Youth and Sports on the inappropriate consideration of the MP's appeal to delay the award of the "Mother Heroin" to the many-year-old mothers of the Mironov region of Kyiv. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine to repeal the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture and Tourism order of 18 January 2008 No1, which severely violates the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens to watch films in Russian. [[COSTUSIVA, LANDIKA, and others. Total 24 deputies]] Irina HERASTENKO and Olga HERASIMYUK to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the inadequacy of abolishing the Ukrainian language exam. Jury CARMAZINA to the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of office, the overstatement of official powers, other corrupt actions by the head of the Lviv District Public Administration of Viktor Djakovič and the Director of the State Enterprise of the Sanatory "Glassium" of Roman Kozak, which resulted in the commission of work for the purpose of verifying the facts, the use of appropriate measures to react to the recovery of financial and economic activities. Vladimir PHILIPPEN to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the legal assessment of the involvement of Andrija Sadov, Lviv’s city chief, in entrepreneurial activities aimed at raiding the enterprise. Vladimir DANILENA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the rights of a war invalid, a participant in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of the first category, a citizen of Vasil Hetman at the distribution of apartments acquired by the State Mortgage Authority of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Sumskiy Region, the inactivity of the Somali City Council on which control and approval of decisions are placed, and the prosecution of those responsible. Váchaslav KOVALA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a prosecutorial response in order to protect the human dignity and civil rights of Alexander Goodima, Ukraine’s national deputy on the 1st call, members of his family and others. Viacheslav KOVALJA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate reaction of the Prosecutor's Office of the Poltavian Region and the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine to parliamentary appeals for Irina Katsarski's complaint of violation of her labour rights. Eugene KARJKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of the private shareholders association Odessakonditer and the non-residence of raiding. GREGORY to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the appointment of an audit in connection with the lack of effective control by the Ukrainian Ministry of Health, with the proper use of State Budget funds during the purchase and supply of medical equipment and medical supplies to Ukraine in 2008-2009. Irina BELIEF to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the inappropriate consideration of the MP’s appeal and the creation of artificial obstacles to the activities of the Ukrainian People’s Deputy. Kirila KULIKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 11 February 2010 on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the adoption of unlawful decisions by officials of the Kyiv City Council and its executive body. Mr. Mikoli KULCHINSKI to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the introduction of false data into official documents by officials of the City Council of Kiev-Svetoshin district of Kiev. MICHELLE RUDEN to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the Ukrainian agricultural holding in the village of Pechanovka of the Romanov region, the Žitomir region. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to verify the legality of the actions of the officials of the Supreme City Council of Kiev-Svetoshin district of Kiev in part of the rental of land. Helen ŠUSTIK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take measures aimed at protecting the rights of investors violated by the Society with limited responsibility by the Building Company LTD. PETER CIBENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the verification of the facts contained in the application of the Vereshtagin family, residents of the city of Sudak of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and the conduct of an objective investigation into the circumstances under which they were deprived of their right to property. Sergia KIVALOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the negative social consequences of the possible liquidation of the Society with limited responsibility for Kyivvistobud and the failure of the builders to fulfil their obligations under the housing investment agreements. TO THE U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine on the falsification of a criminal case brought against Maxime Cherney. TO THE Zaporozhye city head, Vladimir JAVORI, on the immoral idea of establishing a monument to Stalin in Zaporozhye, which offends the honor and dignity of millions of Ukrainians whose relatives were tortured during the Stalin regime. Olga HERASIMYUK to the Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, the prosecutor of Kiev City for a gross violation of Ukrainian legislation on the protection of cultural heritage in the destruction of the architecture of the Kyiv Water Force Complex. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the city’s Kiev head on urgent measures to prevent water shortages in Kiev. Petra SIMONENKA to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration for the construction and maintenance of the residential building of a citizen’s Maria Cononenko in the Solomonian district of Kiev. Uljani MOSTIPAN to the head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region regarding the improper consideration of the MP’s request to beat up the employees of the Mironov Regional Police Department of Oleg and Valerija Plachotnuków. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal extraction of sand in the area of the Varkovich Rural Council of the District of Ravensk and the violation of legislation by the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine in the issuance of special permits for the use of nagrams. Valeria BEWZA to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation in the gas market of the Vinicki region with regard to the provision of the region with natural gas. Eduard PRUTENIKA and Alexija PLOTNIKOVA to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in Foreign Affairs, the Office of the Ministers of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of the Ukraine, the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ukraine on the Responsibility of Hotel Owners for Permanent Property, ratified by the majority of European countries, including in 1997 by the Republic of Poland, for the Adaptation of the National Council of Europe to the Responsibility of Hotel Owners for Permanent Property, which is ratified by the majority of European countries, including in 1997 by the Republic of Poland, for the Adaptation of the National Law of Europe and for the Implementation of the European Framework for the Implementation of the European Year. Vladimir DANILENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a state programme to prevent the reduction of the postal network in Sumska and other areas of Ukraine by a national operator of the post office "Krupposta", which has led to great social tension in rural areas of the district of Suma. Victorio DEMJANČUK to Deputy Prime Minister Boris Kolesnikov of Ukraine for the enforcement of the 2012 European Cup of Football Decision of 22 February 2008 "On the Approval of the State Target Programme for the Preparation and Implementation of the Final Part of the 2012 European Football Championship" with amendments to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decision of 22 July 2009 on the allocation of funds for the restoration and rehabilitation of the theatre and visualization of the culture "Kyiv Academy Operative Theatre". GREGORY OF OMELČENK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conduct of a review of the activities of the individual leaders of the State Committee of Ukraine and the heads of the General Directorate of the State Commission in the Kyiv region, and on the question of the appropriateness of their posts. OXANI BILOSIR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of immediate measures to ban the sale in Ukraine of smoking mixes that cause drug addiction. Oleg ZARUBINSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of a fair level of pension insurance for citizens who retired before 1991. Mr. Jaroslav KENDZORA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the annulment of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decision of 27 January 2010 No.55 on the classification of the transliteration of the Ukrainian alphabet by Latin. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on non-stopping the activities of the enterprise system of the Documentation Fund. [[SAMIELEN, GREENEVEN, LEGINE]] Valeria BARANOVA to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory state of implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decision of 27 July 1998 on the new size of the cost of housing and utility services, the acquisition of cremated gas, solid and liquid spent fuel in the case of housing subsidies, in the city of Mikolayev. Valery Suškević to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on improving the living conditions of Colonel Georgi Kopilov and Major Vadim Kopilov. Eugene KARJKOVA to the Minister for Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the establishment of an illegally deposed monument, Volodymyr Lenin, in the village of Ivanovka Odessa. Victoria DEMJANČUK to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine regarding the restoration and rehabilitation of the theatre and theatre building of the Kyiv Academy of Operative, which is located in the final part of the 2012 European Championship. Oléga ZARUBINSKI to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the activities of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine with the restoration of State guarantees given by Ukrainian legislation to health workers and pensioners. Mr. Oleg TYCHENKA to the Head of the National Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the improper examination of the parliamentary appeal and on the parliamentary request for a complaint from the inhabitants of the village of Rusanów Brovarski district of Kiev concerning the violation of the rights of social workers in the exercise of the legal right to property rights free of charge in the area of property in the Kuyiv district, in the "Long" ceremony. Anatolia MATIJENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal detention of the Ukrainian national deputy for the first time called Alexander Goodima. Jury Grimczak to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the investigation into the activities of an international criminal group in the theft of the funds of the Open Shareholder Society Suhimprom. Anatolia MATVIENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of examining the facts of the raiding of non-residential buildings, non-residential buildings in house No.75 on the street of the Red Army in the city of Chernivka. Gregory OMELCHEN — the Attorney General’s Office for the conduct of a review and legal evaluation of the actions of the individual leaders of the State Committee of Ukraine and the leaders of the General Administration of the State Commission in the Kyiv region, which have signs of official crime, and the involvement of the guilty persons in the established legal responsibility. Mikoli Komara to the Attorney General about the execution of the court’s decision and the situation arising from the distribution of land in the village of Winnicki Hootori, Winnicki district, in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine. Olga HERASIMYUK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to investigate the crime objectively against journalist Sergio Kutrakov, journalist Andrija Mohnik and Igor Miroshničenko, as well as other crimes committed against media professionals. HOLY LIEUTENANT to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful capture of the Luhansk machine factory called the Balhomenka and its involvement in this former Luhansk city head. Groups of National Deputies. [[WATCH, CARMAZIN, AND OTHERS]] To the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to respond to the illegal decision of the Ukrainian Supreme Economic Court on 30 March 2010. ANDRYA PAVLOWS TO THE Head of the Kiev City State Administration for preventing the illegal construction of the playground and the destruction of green plants as a result of the construction of a multi-story building on the Alma Attina Street in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Thus, the honourable people's deputies, 122 MPs, 120, apologize, MPs, including 8 to the President, of whom only one found support and addressed to the President of Ukraine. In view of the dissatisfaction with the request and preparation of the necessary documents, Yuri Carmazin has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u59	Yuri Carmazin. Dear voters, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, I was forced to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the announcement of the texts of my parliamentary requests to President Yushchenk for immediate referral to the Supreme Council for the release from office of the head of the NBU Stelmak in connection with the failure to secure the stability of Ukraine's monetary unit, the inability of banks to pay deposits and dividends and the gross violation of their constitutional rights and the subversion of the authority of the banking system. And in the case of non-application of measures for such submission, recognition by the President of Ukraine of personal responsibility for damage to citizens and the banking system. As well as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, regarding the urge of the President of Ukraine to direct the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the release of Vladimir Stelmah from office of President of Nazbank in connection with the conclusion of the five - year term of office of the latter. I must inform you that the presidents are changing, and the head of Nazbank continues to be in office illegally. The mandate of the head of the NBA has ceased, and everyone, including the IMF, should know that although Stelma is not released from office, he has no authority since December 16. I'd like to remind you. There's something wrong with the rules. I would like to remind you that in any civilized country where the national currency has experienced such a wave, Nazbank’s leader should long have been retired or even in prison. But we have all the opposite: for such serious work, in paws, Stelmahu set wages that are nowhere in the country and never have been. In a year he was able to get a million 513,000 dollars. That's almost three times what the President of Ukraine paid. I'd like to go to this room and say it. Ladies and gentlemen, may we not be able to make a decision to discuss the answer to the parliamentary requests, which are the receipts. I'm sure that my offer will be supported by the hall. If not, I think it will be supported by at least one fifth of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of National Deputies. Remember, at this time, Stemma's management of the National Bank was typical when bank owners spent their money on investors, then they took a refund at the National Bank – that's 83 billion dollars of national money! – and were actually given without bail and interest on use. The bracelet was transferred into a currency and withdrawn from Ukraine. What about the illegal ban on the early dissolution of deposit contracts?Oh, my God! When the courts and the prosecutor’s office and the NBA did not respond to citizens’ complaints, and when the court did admit the illegal actions of the NBA, they said that they had made a mistake. Although investors can now appeal to the National Bank of Ukraine with the conclusions of Minsk. What do Stelmacha’s affairs show? They show that it is necessary to change.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u60	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u61	They show that legislation on bank secrecy, including refinancing, needs to be changed. They show that we need to report for the re-financing now to the Supreme Council. We must release as quickly as possible, without the right to re-election, and members of the National Bank Council, part of which has been appointed to the Supreme Council, and part of it is the President, who have allowed such actions to be carried out by the National Bank of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the NBU has created its own private NBU pension fund at the expense of taxpayers. What is this doing?Oh, my God! I would like us to put an end to these colossal abuses. And I'm addressing Victor Yanukovic, I'm addressing representatives of international financial institutions: who you're planting at the negotiating table, whose hands are in today's hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u62	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Supreme Council’s Rules, if one fifth of the deputies supports, the procedure is discussed. I mean, there's already been a speech by the people's deputy. Presentation by a representative of the body or official to whom a request was made. None. We need then, we must then, Yuri Anatolyevich, prepare for this matter. Therefore, a speech by the head or representative of the Main Committee, two national deputies, and so forth. We have to put it to a vote here. If they support us, we will consider the matter next Friday because we are not. It's important that people prepare and invite them. I am voting on Yuri Karmazin’s proposal to hold a discussion on this MP’s request for the following Friday. Please determine the vote. [[11:57:58]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u63	Please use fractions: The Party of Regions is 1, the Yulia Block Timoshenko is 81, our Ukraine is 10, then zeros. Dear colleagues, two factions, the Timoshenko Yulia Block and the Ukrainian People's Self-Defense faction require a 30-minute recess and ready to make a statement. Let's agree. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, dear colleagues, let's agree this way, we'll make a statement -- three minutes, we'll call it a break, because then we'll get back into the splits.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u64	I'll be there. May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u65	Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u66	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. Yesterday at the press conference Minister of Education and Science Dmitry Tobacco called Ukraine, quoted literally as “papua country”. Such a statement is made not somewhere in the towers, but at a public conference, it is his official attitude towards the country of which he is the minister, which I welcome to each and every one of you. So Mr. Tobacco has insulted the Ukrainian people, and now he has tried to humiliate and disrespect the people of another sovereign state, in this case, New Guinea. As his current government colleague, Mr Kolesnikov, described the Tobacco as a “price clown”. But such cheap clowns destroy our education and damage the image of the state. And the clown escaped from the circus, whether he was lost on the way to the circus, namely, he was a government card and it was Mr. Janukovic who presented him as a professor. Any intolerance to a particular nation in a civilized world is classified as xenophobia, but in the case of Tobacco, it's the attitude of its own nation, it's Ukrainianism. And with a person whose expression is bordered by racism, there will never be one table for civil government officials. Next, I quote about Mr. Tobacco Week: “This is the standard and pattern of Ukrainianophobia, interested in all that gives income: trade, construction, advertising, finance”, – the end of the quote. So, Ukrainianophobia and finance, profit is the essence of the Minister of Tobacco. And that is why, with the same persistence as at the dawn of our independence, he fought with the national symbolism of Ukraine, now he seeks to have the history of Ukraine written in Moscow, to remove the term “World War II” from school textbooks, and to return to education that fits its essence, corruption and bribery. This is the joint position of the Yulia Tymoshenko and the faction of our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. So we call upon the teachers, the students, all the citizens publicly to express their mistrust to the Tobacco who has no right to be the minister of education of Ukraine, Ukraine, who gave the world to such great educators as Makarenko and my teacher, I studied at his school, Vasil Alexanderovich Sukhmlinski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u67	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 31 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u68	We continue the work of the morning session. Dear colleagues, we have three reports of a temporary commission of inquiry in the morning. The first is a report from the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the situation of the arbitrary seizure of land, illegal construction in Simferopol, housing, office and entertainment centres, and the inaction of law enforcement agencies. The commission's chairman is Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich. I have a statement from the members of this commission who are addressing the Head of the Supreme Council: in view of the need for further work, we call off the report of the Commission and the draft decision. Instead, colleagues, I would like to inform you that, according to the decision we have approved, the deadline for the commission is three months, and it is now over. Therefore, if you do not object, in accordance with article 87, paragraph 8, which considers that in the event of failure by the interim commission of inquiry to report to the Supreme Council, the term of authorization of such a commission shall be deemed to be terminated from the day following the end of the deadline for submission by the interim commission of inquiry, which shall be announced by the Head of the Supreme Council or at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. That's why. Dear colleagues, I hereby officially announce the suspension of the work of the Interim Investigative Commission on the investigation of circumstances regarding the arbitrary seizure of land, illegal construction in Simferopol. And we know what creation is, the creation of the commission itself has caused the willful enthusiasm to be no longer in Simferopol and in Crimea. As to the next question. Dear colleagues, we need to consult. Next report. [[B in m in s a l in]] I, Yuri Anatoliyovich, have already read that the members of the commission have called everything and the commission is gone. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u69	Decision of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u70	The Supreme Council decree was adopted, which stated that until January 9, 2010, Yuri Anatoliyevich, do not lead us astray from the correct course of action. With regard to the next commission, we have a question: a report by the Provisional Investigation Commission on the investigation of violations by officials of the state administrations of the Kyiv Region of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of Ukraine in granting and transforming rights to land. I had to report to the head of the interim commission of inquiry, Constantine Anatolyevich Bondarev. Instead, I have the commission's chairman's address: “ In view of the impossibility of being present at the plenary session on April 16, report to the interim commission of inquiry. and so will be a member of the commission Pavlenko Sergey Grigorovich.” Therefore, I invite you to the words of Pavelek Sergey Grigorovitch, the draft decree, the report, and we will continue to discuss the work of this committee. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Your consideration is presented with a report from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations by officials of the state administrations of the Kyiv Region of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation in the granting and conversion of rights to land. The first meeting of the interim commission of inquiry approved the commission’s order and work plan, as well as the election of the commission’s secretary, the national deputy Novíkov Oleg Volodymyrovich. The number and personal composition of the secretariat and the distribution of work among the members of the commission have been agreed upon, and the respective areas of the Kyiv region have been secured by each Ukrainian deputy. According to the approved distribution, the members of the TSC were referred to citizens for further consideration and study and response. The interim commission of inquiry concluded on the imperfections of current legislation in Ukraine regarding land relations regulation, including the granting and conversion of land rights. According to article 75 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the only legislative body in Ukraine is the Parliament, the Supreme Council. In this regard, Parliament must take all possible measures to remove the number of gaps in land legislation at the legislative level. The heads of the district government, taking into account the imperfections of the regulatory base, abuse their position in resolving land issues. To date, however, there is the full impunity of officials of state administrations for committing illegal acts, including acts that go beyond their authority. One of the most common problems in Ukraine today is the protection of the land, its rational use, the provision of equal opportunities for all citizens to acquire land. The practice shows that individuals are being assigned to land for construction in coastal protection lanes, and the entire attack on forest funds has been launched to obtain them for the construction and maintenance of private housing. It is very easy for residential lands to be relocated to those categories of land whose legal regime does not permit housing. It is difficult for individuals to own and rent many hectares of land, while others do not have the right to free land from state utilities within the limits of the rules of free privatization. The interim commission of inquiry concluded that the following issues were not settled at the legislative level. There is no order of accounting for natural persons seeking ownership of land. There is no turnaround in the consideration of citizens’ claims, a lack of priority over the right of certain categories of individuals to land in a specific location. In this regard, the most vulnerable are the locals. Unforeseeable responsibility of government authorities and local self - government authorities for failing to formalize or improperly establish land rights. There is no sufficient guarantee of land protection against purposeless use. There is no real solution to the problem of free access to water objects, which are traditionally places of general water use in the region. The absence of rules in the Code of Administrative Offences and in the Criminal Code of Ukraine that establish responsibility for failure by officials to perform duties regarding the organization of the granting of ownership and use of land to natural persons, including local residents of land, and informing the population about ownership and use of land. The interim commission of inquiry emphasises the need to draft appropriate changes to the existing legislation with a view to eliminating the gaps in land legislation. Taking into account the circumstances of the Supreme Council Resolution of 17 December 2009 of 1775, Tier 4 “On the preliminary report of the Provisional Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of violations by officials of the State administrations of the Kyiv Region of the Constitution and the current legislation on the granting and transformation of land rights, the Supreme Council of Ukraine entrusted the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Committee of Ukraine on Land Resources within two months of the date of the decision to prepare and submit a proposal to the Supreme Council for a legislative regulation on the treatment of citizens who wish to acquire ownership of land. Guaranteeing by law to residents who live in an appropriate area of priority for land acquisition, officials are responsible for violating land law requirements in the granting and reshaping of land rights. The interim commission of inquiry revealed the numerous violations by officials of the state administrations of the Kyiv region of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of Ukraine in granting and transforming rights to land. As a result of the cooperation and processing of the information received from the Rajdjad, Land Administrations in the areas, the Prosecutor's Office of the districts and the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region, the State Committee of Land Resources, the Tax Administration of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Directorate of Environmental Protection in the Kyiv Region, the Kyiv Regional Administration of Forest and Hunting, the Kyiv Regional Production and Water Management, and other State bodies as a temporary follow-up commission, it has been established that there are a number of violations of land legislation. Officials of the district government allow for massive violations of laws in the field of land relations that are not always addressed by the supervisory and law enforcement authorities. Not only do officials not prejudice land laws but they themselves commit such violations. Land use and ownership patterns are being affected, particularly in the absence of land administration projects, technical documentation, and the determination of the size of these land, resulting in an increase in the number of illegal authorities' orders to give ownership and use of land for land change purposes. Undelivered in nature are the coastal protection strips of rivers and waters, the responsibility of control and authority authorities, the abuse of officials, and the creation of a shadow market for the earth. Landing is provided under construction without relevant general plans for population sites, or relevant urban documentation, land planning schemes, land-use plans, which result in an unwarranted decline in the areas of valuable land, such as agriculture, forestry and recreational activities, and the Water Fund. In the Kyiv region, there is a massive removal of forest land and the provision of land for agricultural purposes and individual housing, personal agriculture, and so forth. These problems are particularly acute in the suburban area of Kiev, where they are systemic. The administration of control and use and protection of the land of the Kyiv region do not respond at the same time to land violations. As a result of the work of the commission of inquiry, violations have been detected in the actions of officials of the state administrations of the Kyiv region by the following groups: efforts to dispose of land at the expense of forests; the removal of land from the Water Fund; the granting of land to ownership; or the use of land for the lack of necessary documents; and the granting of land to ownership or use, exceeding the standards established by land legislation. And a lot of violations, so since there's no time left, I'd like to go over, say, now that I'm summarizing the part. So in this draft, we propose: to take note of the report of the Interim Investigation Commission, to send it to the President of Ukraine, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, to the State Committee of Land Resources to study it and to respond accordingly. The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine shall give a legal assessment of the activities of the management and officials of the State administrations in the Kyiv region. To entrust the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources with the State Inspectorate for Land Use and Protection to take joint action on targeted verifications of compliance with the requirements of land legislation. The Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine shall ensure that the law of the land, the rights of citizens in the field of land relations, is duly organised by the Prosecutor-General's Office. And at the very end, stop authorizing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council to investigate the violation by officials of the state administrations of the Kiev Constitution and the current legislation in the transformation of land rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u72	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch. Dear colleagues, it is a single case that the draft decision has been made and signed by all members of the commission who have agreed to the text. So let's talk about how to keep moving. Any questions to the head of the committee? Give me five minutes. Reporter, I'm sorry. Let us sign up in five - minute mode for questions. Please, who would like to clarify how the commission acted? Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u73	The report of this commission, and the absence of a report from a commission that's previous to Simferopol and the abuse, the decommissioning of land, is evidence that all the zeal to create these temporary commissions goes to nothing: these materials are being thrown out into the trash, the questions are being asked, then there are people who are smoothing this, and it's turning this work into nothing. And that raises a lot of questions for both of us. Therefore, no particular name has been given; everyone understands that the Kyiv region with its valuable land areas is, indeed, the seedling of this corruption, land corruption. And we know who's behind these people. You didn't name any specific names, no officer in charge, no questions asked the Attorney General's Office or the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And that's why I don't think your commission has worked and there's no decision to make. And one more question. Was the transfer of land in the village area subject to review by the commission?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u74	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u75	In the area of the village of Sukhluczja. These are tens, hundreds of hectares of hunting grounds, where are they now belonging to the current President of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u76	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u77	So the first question was about specific individuals. I can call it. In principle, if you were to read our report, this is just a report, and there are specific individuals written down, including the Head of the Brovar district administration, the Bohrspolski. And so on. So it's all in the report. And as for Drylands, I was just doing another area and the head, he would sum it up, the head of the commission. But I don't think there were any questions after the documents that came before my eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u78	Valery Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich! Sergei Grigorovich, really, thank you for the thorough report. And this is the case when the members of the commission signed, that is, you didn't have a complete understanding, so this is a thorough report and a clear legal analysis. My colleague asked why names were not given. Well, by the way, you're not a prosecutor, and we don't have constitutional limitations on setting up and learning. The faction’s colleagues need to read the interviews of Attorney General Medvedjk. That's where all the names are. As for the resolution part of your ruling, I agree that it should be sent to the Attorney General's Office to respond appropriately to the prosecution's actions. So I invite my colleagues to support this report. This is a really useful problem, which is highlighted by the earth’s railings in the Kyiv region. Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u80	Thank you. I understand it's a position, not a question. Paul Sulkowski. Let's keep thinking about how to move.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u81	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. I'm not that many questions to report, the reporter has to thank him that he's already given the facts that the commission was able to do, but that's not all. That is why I hope that the new head of the Kyiv government will join both the Prosecutor's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service. And I am convinced that the Ukrainian Security Service today is an extremely responsible person, Valerius Ivanovich Horoshkovsky, will help the head of the Kyiv Authority to clear up from "a" to "I". We are very well aware that orange politicians have embalmed everything everywhere, and the end, and the country has not been able to find it. For good reason, all five years the inhabitants of the Kyiv region attacked, and there they lived in tents but responded.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u82	I see. Please. Sergei Grigorovitch. Is there something I can tell you? Dear colleagues, the questions remained. Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch. Is there a need to discuss? Or maybe we'll go over to the draft decision, right? Before the draft ruling. Dear colleagues, you have a draft decision. A representative of the commission, Pavlenko Sergey Grigorovich, reported on the draft decision. As far as I'm concerned, it's valid because all the documents that the commission has been working on are handed over to the prosecutor's office. And we're putting an end to the commission's mandate because its time is up. So I'm going to base this motion for a ruling, and depending on the vote, we're going to keep moving or we're going to talk about how we're going to vote for it in general. After the draft decree? Yuri Anatolyevich, we'll take the basis, if you don't mind, then we'll move. That's why I'm putting in motion a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the Interim Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of violations by officials of the state administrations of the Kyiv region of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation of Ukraine in granting and transforming rights to land on a ground. Please vote. [[12:54:44]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, who will make suggestions regarding the document in question, can we vote in general? In general. Please, the National MP of Samofal. Samofal and Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! The draft regulation did not reflect the situation in the village of Krušnik of the Vasilkov region. The point is that more than a hundred voters have been asked there: on the basis of the forest, there are 20 hectares, to order local value. There were administrative decisions, silrada, but then what happened was always happening. Now this forest is 50 cents apart, and it's sold for a lot of money. On this basis, I would like to request the draft decree to include the same village of Krusenk Vasilkovsky district, in order for the Prosecutor's Office to determine who is dealing with the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u84	Thank you. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Your suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u85	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow MPs. You can all see what's going on around Kiev. And in this part, the draft regulation has to be supplemented. There must be an additional paragraph 4, where the language follows the words: passing a legal assessment to the management of the officials of the government administrations of the Kyiv region. And to write: both the activities and inactions of the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region and the Environmental Protection Department of the Kyiv Prosecutor's Office. Next word. Motivation: There's a sea of fish allowed, and there's a dam built and built, and there's a narrowing of the Dnieper movement, which has led to terrible environmental consequences, and maybe it's going to lead to terrible consequences, because now people are going to drink this water, from a rotten fish, and now it's going to get here -- and we're all going to feel what it is. So this is motivation. So I think this should be added to paragraph 4 of this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, will there be no other warnings? Dear colleagues, I'm reading right now, and I think what the National MP of Samofal said was somewhere I saw it in the text. Maybe because that's, I know that these materials were put on the committee. The thing is, maybe we'll get out of this situation. We can't make a decision in every village. If the commission did so, then in the report to the decision -- because the decision conveys the entire text of the report -- we added this fact to the report, and then we voted in general with the fact that it was said. About Yuri Anatolyovich. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I'm ideologically, globally supporting you, and the more I've done this story with the Kyiv Sea, the more I've got the paperwork. And I'm also convinced that it's about abuse in this part, because some officials wanted to protect, not the fish, but the dams in the Conch of Sleep. I have these materials, but the subject of the commission, as you can see here: the granting and conversion of land rights. So this is another object. Perhaps we will return to the history of the Kyiv Sea. Well, it doesn't work here. Yuri Anatolyevich, the room supports you to give this assessment, but I say we can't put it here. So I would ask my colleagues, in general, to vote, to send it to the prosecutor's office, and to stop the commission. I am voting on the entire draft Resolution on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of violations by individuals of the Kyiv Administration of the Constitution in the process of reshaping and granting rights to land. Please vote. In general. [[12:58:48]] For 258. “For” – 255, I would say a unique result, as for 12:58 and Friday. Thank you for your support. Dear colleagues, we've got a minute left and we've got more.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u87	About what?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u88	Two hundred and fifty - eight. We have another commission of inquiry, but I understand that as far as the minute before the 'Variable', and yet, the 'Variance' was meant to say about the situation in the districts, and everyone would like to. So I, Yuri Vitaliyovich, can only say that on the next Friday, we will return to your report. And I'm just destined to announce the “Variance” as stipulated in the Rules. So please, Your Honor, sign up for a discussion at the Difference. Dear colleagues, please show us who is ready to comment on the situation in the country, in the districts. Volincian Eugene — Is It Communist? The queen, I hear, passes the word. About what? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, two national MPs from the Communist faction, Wolinec and Kzarykov, will speak for them as the national MP of Kzarykov, and six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u89	Let's cut it out. The distinguished people's deputies, the distinguished voters, addressed me, as a national MP, as a representative of the Company of Ukraine, as well as the representatives of the labour group of the largest air conditioning company in southern Ukraine, as well as the chairman of the Federation of Trade Unions, the industry unions of food workers with regard to the attempted occupation of this largest enterprise. Odessa-Conductor is one of the fund-raising food industries in the Odessa region, whose work is largely dependent on the filling of local and public budgets. I'd like to give a brief account of this company. To date, the company has paid wages in a timely manner, maintained a kindergarten, maintained a health complex, and maintained all the infrastructure that has been available over the past few years. The management of the enterprise is highly skilled in today's difficult conditions, and the sweet production of the company is known not only in our country but also in the world. The management of trade unions and the labour force have proved that there has been a conflict in the shareholding company. In the media, there have been numerous violations of statutory equity standards, artificial misunderstandings with stockholders’ securities, and the register of securities holders in the company has disappeared. As a result of all the internal interpersonalities of the shareholding company, the complexity of the business’s business activity, the deterioration of the company’s reputation, is the result. In times of economic crisis, this poses a major economic risk and may threaten the very existence of this larger business in the South. The company employs one and a half thousand workers who can become hostages to the conflict between business owners and raiders. The prospect of losing jobs leads people to self-organize and solve the problem by force. But as practice has shown, we, the Odessites, are a special people: if the cup of patience is overcrowded, people are covering not only the inter-quarter roads, but also the state routes, as you remember, were in the long-range situation when we blocked the major highway. Indeed, there is nothing to hold a people who work and earn money in our budget and their families under some sort of raid scheme. The same thing, if you remember, was with the construction of power lines through Usatovo when Odessites were trying to impose the will of other actors and other enterprises different from that of the local population. Therefore, I ask the competent authorities and the Governor of Odessa Region of Edouard Matweichuk to establish a special commission immediately and to prevent the raiding and destruction of the largest food business of clothing and Ukraine. On behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, please consider this statement to be a parliamentary request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, instead of the Plitnikov National Deputy, Zablotsky will speak. Please. I want to remind our apparatus that. Wait a minute, please. That this appeal made by the Kraljkov National MP would have been asked to form as a parliamentary request. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u91	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! I wanted to devote my talk to questions that have not been discussed in our room for many reasons lately. Let's remember that for more than five years, the country has been doing quite short-sighted, and I would call it reactionary, the policy of building a single space, where the only nation, the only language, the only history, the only culture. One of my colleagues from Western Ukraine, a very important professor, once said: “How are we going to build one nation when people read different books, watch different movies and have different perspectives on the events of history?” That's why the recipe and the way out of this situation, from this common force denominator, is to support the processes of decentralization, the trends in understanding the needs of the territorial community, the regional community, what is the root of the grass, as they say in the West, and in our mind these are the principles of citizenship, the citizenship of Ukraine. When we say, "The Party of Regions," that means that we support all regional initiatives, all manifestations of regional identity, when it comes to what was previously called "foreignness," when it comes to people living in a separate area or region being able to have their ideas about heroes, about creative work that deserves support and further attention, and reflection, for example, in school programs, in colleges. The same is true of the State’s language policy. Appropriately, when we build an understanding of our government's agenda, when we hear calls for patriotism here in the hall, I want to emphasize this last. Now patriotism is helping to rebuild the state, to overcome the economic and social crisis, which is patriotism, the service of society, the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u92	Thank you. People's deputies Soroczynska Kirilenko and Sidelnik pass on the word to Oleg Láško, six minutes. Andrew Pavlovsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u93	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Last week's session will obviously go into the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism as a week of elaborate illusions. Today's ruling team -- and this is President Yanukovic, the government of Azarov and most of Parliament -- has cynically and presumptuously refused to deliver on the electoral promises, thus crushing the hopes of millions of Ukrainian citizens for a substantial improvement in their lives today. Here's just a short list of bills that the ruling coalition didn't vote for in Parliament. The draft Act on increasing State aid to care for a child with disabilities, which provided for a substantial double increase in this aid. The draft Law on the Recovery of Payments to Ukrainian Citizens of Savings in the USSR Savings Act, which provided for 25 billion dollars to be paid to Ukrainian citizens already this year. The draft of the Law on the Establishment of Pensions for Pedagogical and Pedagogical Workers is 90 per cent of the amount of their salary. Draft Act on Increase in Disability Pensions, draft Act (for the right of disabled persons to compensation for unrecovered car). Draft Law (to establish State social assistance for low-income families at the minimum of living). The draft Act on increasing State aid to raise a child until it reaches the age of 18 years. The draft Act on double payments at the birth of a child, the draft Act on the formation of national anti-crisis food and medical baskets for the underprivileged, and a number of other laws for which the authorities have not voted. On the other hand, as he went to power, Janukovic promised to hear everyone, but today, after gaining power, he had forgotten his promises. So let this week of elaborate illusions be a good lesson for the millions of Ukrainian communities who have put their faith in these false promises. And the rest, three minutes, I'm handing over time to my colleague Soroczynski-Kyrilenko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u94	Honorable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues, celebrate the World Health Day, which has been celebrated annually since 1950, on April 7. To mark the creation of the World Health Organization this year, there is a study of global health and health in each of us individually. According to experts, urbanization is a public health problem. The population growth in the next thirty years is being completed in urban areas. This poses numerous health problems related to water, the environment, violence, and injuries, not infectious diseases, and risk factors such as tobacco, alcohol, unhealthy nutrition, physical inertness, and the risks associated with outbreaks of infectious diseases. In Ukraine one of the most pressing medical problems is the absence of a nationalized concept of Ukraine’s national infectious safety. Infectious diseases, not surprisingly, pose a serious threat to the gene pool of the Ukrainian nation in the 21st century. And this problem, as evidenced by recent flu pandemics, is not being adequately addressed. The country lacks a long - term strategy to combat modern infectious diseases. Thus, the Ukrainian State is forced to act spontaneously and not systematically in the fight against infectious challenges. First of all, the vaccine against measles and rubella purchased in 2007 is 9 million doses that pose a real threat to the life and health of Ukrainian children. It was not enough to deplete it, but it was much more expensive to bring it in than to deplete it. This is the result of a thoughtless, non-systemic policy in the field of protection against infectious diseases. It's different. We demand immediate action to combat the tuberculosis epidemic for 15 years. Over the years, over the years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u95	Talk to you for another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u96	During these years, nearly 17,000 hospital beds, 86 specialized sanatoriums, no vaccine, and no trained personnel have been removed. I would like to inform you that the All-Ukrainian Women of the Fatherland public organization, at an extended government meeting, has received an address on these issues to the President, the National Security Council of Ukraine, and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u97	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u98	Please, the Ukrainian public, all the medical facilities: stop the infectious plague in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u99	Thank you. I would like to invite you, Mr. Andri Pavlovski, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko, to speak with the People's Deputies of Gudima, to whom the word is given by the People's Deputy of the Vorotnuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u100	Respectable compatriots! We have all witnessed this week that the government of Azarov and the Party of Regions have disgracefully renounced the social promises that Yanukovic made before the elections. All these promises proved to be mere lies to their constituents. The regional party did not support any legislation to strengthen the social protection of the most vulnerable people promised to improve their lives today, pensioners, disabled persons, and low-income families. The government of Azarov, Yanukovitch in negotiations with the International Monetary Fund and Gazprom is actually trading social guarantees for citizens and state sovereignty. Here is a quote from Azarov's letter to the International Monetary Fund: “We will limit the payment of 50 per cent to working pensioners by the first step,” the second step will increase the pension age by 5 years, the third step will increase gas prices by almost double, and then the prices of residential services will be increased. This is an improvement today! I think it's primarily the abuse of Yanukovich's Eastern voters. Instead, by its decisions, by its rulings, the government of Azarov has reduced the aid of the people with disabilities of the Great Homeland War five times, from 5,000 120 dollars to 1,000 dollars, 5,000 dollars, it's the government of Yulia Timoshenko that made the decision, and they canceled and set the thousand. Such a “gift ” for veterans until May 9th! They also made a mockery of the pensioners ’ laughter. But how much did they raise? By 1 percent 1 million pensioners, and 1 percent, that's 5 dollars. And what about the other 13 million pensioners who were not raised at all and who were awaiting a major election, 30-40 percent as promised before Yanukovic's election, and as required by the Law on raising the minimum wage and minimum wage. In March the pension was calculated at 602 bracelets with a minimum of 695 bracelets. Yes, many pensioners and disabled persons voted for Yanukovich, and here are your gifts from Yanukovich to the festival! So, people, think about what you're doing and think about the future that awaits you from this power of the oligarchs who think about their pockets, not think about the most disadvantaged people, and want to put economic problems on the shoulders of the most vulnerable: pensioners, disabled people, budgeters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u101	I would like to invite the People's Deputy Gudima to the floor, and the People's Deputy of Paris will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u102	Goodima, Timoshenko Street. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! This week, President Janukovic, who was in Washington at the International Nuclear Security Summit, stated that Ukraine had voluntarily agreed to transfer its stockpiles of highly enriched uranium. I want to explain to many listeners, many voters, the history of the loss of the status of the nuclear power by Ukraine. Until recently, we had strategic nuclear weapons that contained tons of weapons plutonium worth tens of billions of US dollars. Ukraine’s decision on the transfer of strategic nuclear weapons may have been correct, but we did not get any security assurances. And today we're asking her in both the United States and Russia. We didn't get serious financial compensation, but we could get, as we said, loans, loans for tens of billions of U.S. dollars. The other one. We should remember that Ukraine remained on the side of the Great Seven or on the side of the former five alone with the effects of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Today the world has forgotten that we are still a state that loses its gene pool, and we still need help to cope with the consequences of such a disaster. And there's a lot of questions in society: What's the cost of saying no to highly enriched uranium? Will it not be worth the destruction of our own science that Ukraine needs, for we should remember that we do have a colossal energy nuclear potential because we have the third power in Europe? And today we have only one Russian nuclear fuel. On one cloud we already have the fuel company Westinhausen, that is, without nuclear research, Ukraine cannot guarantee that nuclear safety for Ukraine and for the world's co-operation. It is estimated that the price of those 90 kilograms [90 kg] of enriched uranium is over a billion U.S. dollars. We did not receive any firm guarantees of compensators. So we will not support the action of President Yanukovic, who did not act on behalf of the Ukrainian people and did not have the proper authority. The opposition government, the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, will introduce a draft law on order next week in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u103	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u104	On the order of use, the order of compensation, the procedure for granting a permit or banning the export of highly enriched uranium. Only in this way can we guarantee Ukraine a place worthy of nuclear status that has the greatest nuclear potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u105	I'd like to invite the People's Deputy of Paris. The following will be the national deputy of Kaletnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u106	Papuy Andrey, “Our Ukraine” MP. The patriotic forces of Parliament, the Party “Our Ukraine”, the Party “For Ukraine!” all the time point to the anti-Ukrainian activities of the Minister of Education and Science of Dmitr Tobacco. Within a few weeks, he was able to cancel the Ukrainian language classes, the Ukrainian language tests, and the obligation to externally test graduates in the national language. He was busy censoring history books to deprive our children of the truth and memory. After all, it is the people without memory, without knowledge, who dream of tobaccors. Because it's easier for people to manipulate and pillage them. By his command, Smoker destroyed a transparent system of entrance into exams, restoring corruption schemes such as taking into account, rather than independently appraised, the mid - school test and, later, entrance exams in colleges. The smoker had no education abuse. So for days in Moscow, he announced that it was necessary to cancel the duplicate of foreign films in Ukrainian cinemas. Without blinking his eye, Tobacco lied about a sort of 30 percent drop in film attendance in Lviv. Although statistics actually show that movie theater attendance has increased by almost a third and cashier’s congregations by a factor of one and a half times. And it's all over Ukraine. People in both the east and the west are happy to go to movies in Ukraine. And the only thing left for the Tobacco is to lie and insult the Ukrainian people. Yesterday, the Smoker took out another pearl, calling Ukraine a Papuan country. Such actions offend people throughout the country. The unwillingness of the authorities to listen to citizens who have risen up to defend their dignity leads to a fateful end. The growth of protest actions. Literally an hour ago, Lviv students announced that the 20th of April classes in many universities of Lviv and the start of a strike for the retirement of the Tobacco. And those who believe that these protests will be limited to Lviv are deeply mistaken. Tobacco implements a clear plan for the destruction of all Ukrainians and is responsible not only for him but also for Janukovic, who appointed him, Azarov and the coalition of “cushions” who hold him in office and help him to abuse Ukrainian children, education, Ukrainian history and culture and provoke civil opposition. This unconscionable, anti - Ukrainian person is to be retired. If Janukovic and the government don't do this, I can assure you that in May thousands of students from various cities of Ukraine will go to Kiev in order to share, organized from all regions of Ukraine to demonstrate their disapproval of this person. And if the authorities want public opposition, they're going to have it, they're going to have serious mass destruction if they don't send it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u107	Of course, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u108	We will be able to do so, for we realize that the future of our children, the future of our nation, is behind this decision. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u109	I'd like to invite the National Deputy, Gregory Kaletnik. He was also given the word by the national deputy of Samofal, so it was six minutes. Next is Tamara Yegorenko, who was given the word of Najdjonov’s national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u110	President-in-chief, Honourable People's Deputies, distinguished citizens of Ukraine, I would like to address you and inform you about our problems in life -- this is a complex situation involving the conduct of spring and field work, in general the situation that has taken place in agriculture today, and which requires urgent action at the state and regional levels to be taken in an orderly and timely manner to carry out all the work that would ensure the food security of our country, as well as the resolution of all other issues of farming. Yes, on April 16, only 10.1 million acres [10.1 million ha] of winter were preserved in Ukraine, and today it is necessary to compensate them further with the sown yokes, of which more than three million acres [3 million ha] have been sown today. Sugar beet has been sown only 170,000 acres [170,000 ha] or 35 percent to the forecast. The sunflower, the corn, is fully planted. According to regional projections, the overall need for spending on spring-field jobs is 24 billion dollars, of which more than 17. In doing so, agricultural enterprises are provided with only half of their own circulation costs. Only 997 million people received the provisional budget schedule due to the lack of an approved budget for the city. In fact, the Treasury was able to redistribute only 50 percent of this meager amount. According to the Agro-industry company’s operational data, nearly 1.2 billion dollars were borrowed. The current deficit is estimated at over 11 billion. And it could be covered in part by government budget funds to be accepted by indirect state support and forward purchases by agrarian funds, as well as by lending banks over 5 billion dollars. The whole situation of moneylessness has its negative impact on the underfunding of the agri-industrial complex by programs declared by the government in 2008 and 2009. I don't want to repeat this hysteria here, which was expressed by previous speakers, which is simple, except to twist data today, just to form such a distorted opinion of citizens of activity and government, and of the President of Ukraine, who are already known by our citizens as those who, when they come to power, have filled both their sentences and were the largest percentages of economic growth at that time. So I just want to say that it would be really good if, instead of this hysteria, we could stop reprimanding each other and look the truth in the eye and let it work. In a letter to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine asking them to lend, to increase lending to the agricultural sector of the economy, but banks, as always, are responding exclusively to their interests, and the problems of the agricultural complex of Ukraine remain, unfortunately, on the shoulders of the workers of the village. We need an agrarian bank, and then the village would work. Among the main factors that I have already mentioned, and they have a negative impact on the economic situation, are the absence of stable, consistent, agro-industry rules; constant, stable legislation, which would produce appropriate rules of play in the agrarian complex, and this would allow farmers to look ahead and use the necessary measures. And I'd like to give everybody a famous example of this today, like the sugar situation. Unconventional influences are needed today. Both the Minagropolitics and the Cabinet of Ministers are planning to stimulate the expansion of sugar beet crops today by paying extra, or by compensating the cost of thousands of bracelets for each sown hectare. But please tell us, the years 2008-2009 were years. 2007-2008 was years ago when, without this thousands of dollars of compensation for sugar beet crops, Ukraine produced sugar in the quantities needed, both for domestic consumption and even for export. We have produced more than two million tons of sugar, and the lack of consistency has reduced such good progress in the sugar industry, and today it is necessary to compensate for the cost. So as I finish my speech, I would like to say that there are many problems in agriculture today. And if we mobilize the efforts of all the political forces, the government, the President and help the village, it will not only be successful in working the food complex of Ukraine, it will not only provide food and environmental security, it will also be energy. This will make it possible for the entire economy of our nation to be healed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u111	Thank you. I invite Tamara Yegorenko. The next will be Vladimir Yavorowski, who was given the word Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u112	Dear Ukrainian citizens, voters, today I want to address a very important topic: the social protection of orphans, children deprived of parental care and homeless children, which today is a national problem and whose solution depends on economic and political stability in Ukrainian society. According to statistics, there are over 200,000 homeless children in Ukraine, between 10 and 30 percent -- HIV-positive, more than five thousand -- using drugs, providing preventive treatment in the services of minors in almost 150,000 children who are prone to delinquency, and these are far from complete data for today. A thousand more. In 2001, we adopted the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, which defined child protection as a strategic national priority. Many legislative acts have also been adopted that have declared legal, organizational, social, and State support for such children on paper. Sadly, however, the legal process did not go on. Our predecessors in the executive branch have made separate attempts to solve the above - mentioned problem. So Julia Timoshenko's government developed a comprehensive state programme in 2005 to address childlessness, unemployment for 2006-2010, which included a series of unfortunately unfulfilled utopian ideas. In 2007, ex-President Viktor Yushchenko seized this staff, creating an advisory body, the National Council for Charity, “The Game of Love for the Child”. However, all these good intentions have not been realized, since there is no tendency to reduce and reduce the horror of child crime in our society. Although some government structures, such as the Youth Policy, Family, and Childhood Subcommittee, headed by Catherine Lukyanova, have led and run a sufficiently effective work in this direction and have united the efforts of many societies. First of all, women’s, civil society organizations. Let me give you an example of the Donetsk region. Today, there are 1,900 associative families with more than three thousand children. Only last year, with the help of local authorities, a total of one and a half thousand children were returned from the streets. This was appropriate to extend to the rest of Ukraine. In my opinion, the main problem is that there is still no systematic approach in Ukraine to prevention of homelessness at both national and regional levels. Reforms are needed, first and foremost, for the services of minors in the local authorities of the State executive branch, as well as for the structural units of the criminal police on children's affairs in the internal affairs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It would be appropriate to hold parliamentary hearings as soon as possible on "The state of social protection of orphans and children.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u113	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u114	Because similar parliamentary hearings were held in 2006. I propose that we work together to find effective solutions to this problem. Our children should be the pride of our nation. You and I are both parents. You have to do everything you can to get them back out of the streets. And I'm going to finish the speech with the words of folk wisdom. “You will not warm the world, you will not put on the whole world, you will not feed the world, but you will not let a hungry child go, for we have to preserve them all in peace.” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u115	I'd like to introduce you. Vladimir Yavorowski. The following will be the national deputy Volodymyr Večerko, who was given the floor by Deputy Mankovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u116	Dear voters! Dear and close to my heart are the representatives of the patriotic Ukrainian opposition! And I'm honored by the majority, "tagged" in Danish! The price of this dish is about a few million. Here's what I'd like to say today. We have all felt that Ukraine, our Motherland with you, has entered a zone of grave dangers, national, social, patriotic. In just one month of the existence of a new authority, we today have challenges that are obviously disturbing every Ukrainian soul today. First of all, this is, of course, the total occupation of Ukraine, from the West and beyond, by one political force. There was talk about the Tobacco, I think it's not even a last name anymore today, it's a profession, and if you want, it's a measure of hatred for Ukraine and the Ukrainians. I'm not going to talk about the socialist where you see yourself: all of this hypocrisy that you voted for in the elections that they're doing to you today. If you haven't felt it today, wait, this is going to be an empty budget. If today you are promised 1 percent to add to your pensions, and almost 12 percent of inflation will eat every month, I would like to look into the eyes of those voters who voted for Yanukovich. I am convinced that today we are no longer 45 and in July Timoshenko a percentage of the electorate, but much more. Because some of those who voted for them are already biting their elbows. Here we also talked about uranium, where the cross is actually placed on an outstanding one, on the great science that was in Ukraine, which Ukraine was famous for, is our nuclear physics. I'm not talking about that and I'm asking my parents, prepare for the election if you have kids. All right, today, just by the level of knowledge, your children will not enter the college. Tobacco has already imposed a mandatory standard that there will be an attestation, there will be something else, so prepare the money, and don’t even send your children there to Kiev, Winnitz, or anything like that. Today the issue of the Charter is being raised, and I want to remind the Ukrainians that my dear, the Charter is not about regional languages, it's only about languages that are threatened by extinction. We have several in Ukraine: Crimean Tatar, Hagau, Karaim, but Russian is not the point, and they impose this moment on us. There is now going to be a meeting of presidents where there will be new trades, and we understand very well that trade is virtually nothing, so Janukovich will be trading our last few values that we have. I want to finish my speech with this, 45 percent of the voters, the patriotic Ukrainians that there are today, I understand that you have anxiety today, don't panic, I understand that our voices here are opposing for the time being, they will be together, I have no doubt, absolutely. Not enough to resist, we will organize a nationwide movement of resistance to the occupation of Ukraine. We're holding on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u117	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u118	Stay calm, I say again, we stand, we stand to the last, but together with you, along with the resistance movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u119	Vladimir Vezerko, faction of the Party of Regions, Mikhailo Chechetov gave the word Anatoly Gorbatyuk, so Anatoly Horbatuk will be the successor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u120	Dear Chairman! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! To date, I have heard many appeals to the President, but I would like to draw your attention more specifically to the critical situation in the pharmaceutical industry today that requires special attention. The lack of effective action by some of the ministries in the field to address the root causes of the problems that exist is becoming more and more alarming every day for both the health sector and our Ukrainian citizens. Unfortunately, Ukrainian producers today produce identical products instead of moving towards importers. Today, some of the medicines in our country are produced, but they are not allowed to access the domestic market because it is beneficial to purchase more expensive imports and special attention should be paid to the tendering committee and to see the list of priority medicines purchased in our country for secondary medicines. And make an analysis and conclude that we need to buy first. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that while we are buying expensive products from foreign farmers, whose quality we are not always able to control until we are able to purchase foreign diagnostic equipment kits of soft inventory, i.e. bandages, gauzes and others from abroad, which are being produced in our country today, we are raising the economies of other countries. Therefore, respectable colleagues, today we need to promote the production of substitutes for imports, which we will provide at least 50% of medicines for the population. Today, only 25 per cent of medicines, medical equipment produced by our domestic industry and 75 per cent produced by imported foreign enterprises. So where's the logic, we need to protect our manufacturer today. A consistent public policy is needed for a healthy Ukraine. Therefore, I would like to take into account my request to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Industrial Policy that I finally receive an answer from all the Ukrainian people, what measures are the priorities, what forward-looking development of our pharmaceutical industry should be made for the benefit of our own Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u121	I ask the secretariat to prepare these two appeals, which Vladimir Sučko has announced to the two ministries so that we can address them accordingly. I invite Anatoly the Gorbathuk, followed by John the Rabbit. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u122	Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, as a resident of the Volin region, as a member of the Supreme Council, I am concerned about the politicization of the work and the abolition of the Provincial District Council of Volin, starting with the acquisition of powers, its deputies have made more than a dozen political decisions that do not apply to their authority. And the head of the district council is Gryczek, who is the head of the election headquarters of BUTU and the head of the same party, has repeatedly violated the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, using administrative pressure, forcing deputies to accept political appeals. One of the latest loud examples of the activities of the Volin District Council is the decision-making process that took place on March 23, 2010, regarding the referrals to the Europarliament for the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine to Stepan Bandera and the resignation of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to Dmitri Volodymyrovich Tobacco. Despite the absence of the majority of the members of the district council, and 35 deputies were present at the necessary minimum for the decision-making of 41 deputies, and due to the absence of a quorum for decision-making, violating the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government and on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, the head of the Wallin Regional Council, Anatoly Gretzuk, with the help of the Council staff, simply challenged one question from the fourth, and the second from the fifth time, he had a positive vote on the issues of the agenda. By the way, these two questions were already being asked at the next session on March 12, and this session did not take place because there was no quorum and no quorum at the session. Similar violations are systemic in the activities of both the heads of the Wallin District Council and the entire representative body of the country. In view of the foregoing, and with a view to avoiding further violations of existing legislation by officials of the Wallin District Council, I appeal to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to give a legal assessment of the decisions taken by the Wallin District Council on March 23, 2010. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u123	Thank you. To the invitation of the national deputy John the Rabbit, the following will be Valérie Bondick, who was given the word Paul Sulkowski, please John Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u124	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! In the Parliamentary Hall, it's customary to talk about culture of culture ministers, and we've often heard that we have to fear, not the ministers of culture, but the culture of ministers. I want to break this tradition, so I want to say a few words about the culture of the Minister of Education and the science of Dmitri Tobacco. You know that if the Minister of Tobacco was released, the whole movement would be open, look at the Internet editions, and you'd be sure that people, especially students, are well aware of the "herostrian" role of this minister. But they won't and won't accept it, and that's what you need to realize, especially the ruling coalition and Mr. President Viktor Janukovich. The one who protects the Tobaccoer says: “Let him do his work, and then you will make demands on him! ” This is what I want to answer the next time. First. Mr. Tobacco’s appointment as minister of education and science as a drop of water revealed an impeccable system for the formation of new authority. The point is, in any democratic state, the candidate for a minister is being tested for loyalty to the state and morality. What the Minister of Education has said about Ukraine, the Ukrainian nation, cannot be treated differently than the manifestation of Ukrainianophobia, the political technology behind the burning of xenophobia in Ukraine. Yesterday, Tobacco and the official action, he called Ukraine a “papua” country, causing resentment not only against students but also against the entire democratic community. So in any democratic state, Tobacco wouldn't be tested for loyalty to a state where it's a high-ranking official. Similarly, the Smoker would not pass a moral-ethical examination. Which of you does not remember how he discredited himself by misappropriating his military title when he was the head of the President’s Administration, Mr. Kuchma. And who forgot how his fellow factions accused him of stealing and no one ever refuted it? The other one. You don't have to wait 100 days to figure out what kind of pogrom the Tobacco will lead to. The Minister of Tobacco changed the conditions for entry into the U.S.S.A., which already this year testifies to the resurgence of mass bribes at the intro. Instead of improving the test, Mr. Tobacco is actually torpedoing it with money already in place. Minister Tobacco with manic stubbornness is working to narrow the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. He had no education; he had already started essentially recommending that the minister of culture block the sound of foreign films in Ukrainian. But you gentlemen will not be able to implement the destruction program of Ukraine. We Ukrainians will never let you do that. President Janukovic is responsible not only for the controlling opposition but also for the tobacco industry. And the longer you hold Mr. Tobacco's minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u125	Thank you. Next is Valery Bondick, Party of Regions. He will be followed by Yuri Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u126	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Two events need to be, you know, last week, two events need to be summed up like this. The first one is. Maybe someone didn't pay attention, but we've been given a thorough report, a new course on the reform of Ukraine 2010-2015. Significant academics, including the American Academy of Sciences on Russian Language, on the protection of Russian language in accordance with article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine on page 58, note that he writes that compromise should be found. There is really the European Charter, there is really the Constitution of Requirement and there is a Ukrainian nation. So it's not about politicizing this issue, it's about finding compromise. That's not what I'm saying. Secondly, as I move on to the protection of Russian, I move on to Russian. The day before yesterday, there was an event known to only narrow professionals, 90 years of criminal investigation. Indeed, it is an event which. You see, I bought an emperor's bust here today in Parliament. Only Imperial Russia has established a criminal investigation service that has helped to detect, prevent and combat, indeed, crime, including the latent one that existed in that country. Therefore, the best traditions must be preserved now. By the way, pay attention, the king has the king of the colonels. He really wasn't generalissimus, general, he was a colonel, he wore Alexander III's venzel on the slopes because he was head of the pirate regiment. So, some militia generals are now, unfortunately, forgetting the history lessons I'm talking about, you know, like the pendulum of history. They do not know the laws of society, they repeat the same mistakes. Well, you could say 2005 and other mistakes in Ukraine's recent history. I am talking about personnel appointments in the system and in the criminal investigation service. In order to become a normal operative, not as Yuri Vitalevich Lucenko tried, but as a professional policeman, he was already trying to put his bust in front of the Ministry of the Interior, which was built there, similar to the bust of Žeglov, a cinematographer of the well-known cinema. Yuri Vitalevich wanted to live in bronze for some reason. But it didn't work. This topic cannot be politicized, as it takes years to become a normal operational worker to have a clear operational picture, including agency work. What Alexander Vladimirovich Mogilev is doing right now, which I have infinite respect for, which I know personally, is wrong. You can't make mistakes again. There's no need for the good footage of the building, especially the criminal investigation, it's always not political, it doesn't need to be fired now. A balanced approach to the staff system in the Ministry of the Interior is needed. And I would like to take into account my request to Anatolia Vladimirovich Mogilev, Minister of the Interior, for the thorough staffing of the Ministry of the Interior system with regard to appointments to the criminal investigation system and other operational personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u127	Thank you. The only thing I'm saying is that we have this kind of danger with leaders, it's not just in the situation you're talking about. Because many experts say that the city’s head, Leonid Czernovecki, began to work there, Sergey Kiwalov, some monuments. So I think we should tell all the politicians in action that they should work for the Ukrainian people for up to 100 years, and then they should rework. Sergey, Yuri Odarchenko gives the word, the national deputies of Shishkin and Lemz. So six minutes. Next up is Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u128	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Last week, we were looking at a very serious document this week. It's the socio-economic development programme of the state for this year. And I want to point out that unfortunately, in this program, we haven't seen clear principles of industrial development, of agriculture. And that's absolutely strange, because a third country in the world that exports grain that has its own metal today actually doesn't produce any serious techniques that work in the fields. It's coming today. Hersonian combines have often been discussed in these walls. We know what a serious tension there is in Herson. In fact, up to this day, several hundred people go out every day to take care of the Hersonian district administration in order for the authorities to take action to restore the business. Timoshenko’s government has done a great deal to solve this problem. A programme for the development of domestic machinery has been adopted, which has enabled the reconstruction of the construction, the production of the domestic combine “Slavvic”. I emphasize that it's not an open-ended assembly, it's a combination that's worked, designed in Ukraine and made entirely in Ukraine. This program was adopted. There were very serious decisions that did not allow these, so-called, open-ended gatherings to penetrate Ukraine and thus, avoiding taxation in Ukraine, actually twisting the wheels and, without raising our production, issuing foreign products for their own. Such a determination was taken, and it was also a serious step. A debt was paid for the salary. In fact, everything was done to make the enterprise work. On the other hand, as we listen to the report of the minister of the agro-industrial complex at today’s meeting, we have heard that in Herson today, we are going to produce, more loyally, a compatible production of the Belarusian and the native combine. As a resident of Herson, I want to say that this is an absolute illusion that causes a serious protest in all Hersonians. Because there's no harvesting on Herson, there's no manufacturing in common, there's a supply in a very serious set of Belarusian combines, when only wheels are attached in Herson. In fact, a few dozen people are working on this production, and if they reject the factory’s guards and janitors, 30 people are working on the production of tires and cabins. Instead of working for about 10,000 people who produced a combine that worked not only on the ropes of Ukraine but also on the neighboring nations. Dear colleagues, today we have, not only my personal position, but today I'm going to read you the address of the representatives of the Herson District Council, which was almost unanimously accepted by the deputies of all factions. This is a reference to the Head of the Supreme Council and to the deputies of the Supreme Council. I will read it to you: “We, the deputies of the Herson District Council, are calling upon you to immediately consider and accept in general the draft Ukrainian Law on the return to state ownership of the entire property complex of society with limited responsibility, the "Herson Mashzavod", providing for the introduction into the enterprise of the law of the temporary state administration and the corresponding funds in the 2010 State Budget project.” I want to say that the government of Tymoshenko has made a clear statement and has done a great deal to get this plant back under the influence of the state. In fact, two months was not enough to make it happen. I'm moving on. Today's owners, who have illegally acquired this company, have stopped manufacturing, have not paid the wages of massively violating legislation, and by ignoring the decisions of the courts, have released qualified engineering workers and workers, dismantled and exported equipment, tried to get into the government's pocket, covering up the financial and economic crisis and the slogans to support the domestic producer. A very critical situation at a former Ukrainian-led company in the design and construction of today's complex agricultural technology has gained special resonance in the district center and is a source of constant social and political tension. We also need to consider the report of the TSK of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the violation of the requirements of legislation when disposing of shares held in the state, stockholders' associations in the field of agricultural engineering in connection with the operation of VAT “The Leasing Company Ukraineinvest” and to investigate the circumstances of the bankruptcy of VAT “Herson Combains” and to adopt the relevant decision of the Supreme Council in order to enable those responsible for the theft and embezzlement of the better state-owned enterprises of the agro-industrial complex to be held accountable. The adoption of such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u129	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u130	Such a law will enable one of the powerful fiscal enterprises to be brought back to life in an area that will increase citizens' confidence in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u131	I invite Mikola Kulczynski, a national deputy, to the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u132	Mikola Kulczynski, Party “Our Ukraine”. Respectable Ukrainian citizens! Can Ukrainian patriots today remain silent, for whom Ukraine is a homeland rather than a territory of subsistence and wealth? Will our anger grow? They mature, and we cannot keep quiet. We cannot keep silent, for the existing new authority has begun a course for the total increase of Ukrainians, the destruction of our historical memory. We cannot remain silent when the Donetsk District Administrative Court ruled on the illegality of the President of Ukraine's decree to assign the title “The Hero of Ukraine” to Stepan Bandera. Invented reason: Bandera was not a citizen of Ukraine; he immediately arouses a double desire. On the one hand, look at the list of all the heroes of Ukraine, and on the other, look at the historical facts. Could it be doubtful that Alexy Prokopovich Berest, who in 45th year together with Jegorovich and Cantaria set the flag of Victory over Reichstag, was the Hero of Ukraine? And he died in the '80s, which means he wasn't a Ukrainian citizen. And the participant of the anti-Nazi underground of Tetjan Josephovna Marcus, shot by the Germans in 43rd year and buried in Baba Jar? Is it possible that who doubts the correctness of the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine, Devyanko Kuzmi Mikolaiovich, Lieutenant General of the Soviet Army, who accepted Japan's surrender in World War II and died in Moscow in the 54th year? Or who wants to charge the title of Hero of Ukraine of Tishuri Volodymira, Titenko Mikoli, Lelecenko Alexandru, Ignatenko Vasile and Vashku Mikola, who died in 1986, saving the world from the Chernobyl disaster. They were not all Ukrainian citizens, but likely millions of grateful descendants would remember their exploits. Just like Eugene Konovaltz, Olžić, Helen Telliga, Roman Shuhevich, Stephen Bandera, and their brothers. The memory must unite the nation, make it stronger, and make us separate again, but these are our heroes. Today we are protesting strongly against the ruling of the Donetsk District Administrative Court, expressing our support for President Viktor Yushchenk's actions in the indictment. The Bander gave his life without a remnant to his Fatherland, and he is our flag, and the flag unites. So I call for the unity of all Ukrainians to protect our state and our independence. And another fact in the context of this anti-Ukrainian attack, which I would like to say is the exhibition “The Volinian Difference, Polish and Jewish Victim, Victims of UN-OPA”. The exhibition is highly falsified, falsified by documents that once again, as it were, in the wake of Russian imperial ideology degrade Ukrainians, fuel national hatred. The exhibition is completely falsified by historians. I am paying attention to the head of the regulatory committee, since one of the organizers of the exhibition was our deputy, Kolesnichenko, the national deputy of Ukraine, in order for this issue to be addressed in a regulatory committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u133	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u134	You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, Ukrainianophobic exhibition by Deputy Kolesnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-16-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, the hour for the “Variance” issues is ending. I remind you that at this hour the MPs had the opportunity to draw attention to the situation in Ukraine and to the constituencies in which they work. Let me remind you that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate. So the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, April 27th at 10 a.m., and the Conciliation Council will usually take place on Monday at 11 p.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
