ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:00:16]] Cards were registered in the 354 national deputies in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the February 10th plenary meeting. Six questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, 1 law was passed, 4 bills were adopted as a basis, 1 bill was sent for re-reading, and 4 bills were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, before considering the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the maintenance of road bridges at the Ukrainian-Moldov State border, we will hear information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Petar Aleksiowicz, on the status of implementation by the Republic of Moldova of his obligations under the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova on the State Border and the Additional Protocol to it on the transfer to Ukraine of the Odessa Road area, in the area of the inhabited area of Palanka Republic of Moldova, as well as the land area on which it is going through, and their operating regime since August 18, 1999. Therefore, honourable members of the national parliament, I invite you to make a statement on this matter to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. Petr Alexiyovich. He asks for time to ten minutes, and if there are questions, respected colleagues, within five minutes. No objections? Please, Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I have the great honour and pleasure to present you today with information on the situation around the implementation, or, more specifically, the failure of the Republic of Moldova to commit to the ownership of Ukraine the Odessa - Reni road area in the area of the settlement of Palanca. The agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova on the State border and the additional protocol to it on the transfer to the property of the Odessa-Reni road area in the area of the settlement of Palanka Republic of Moldova, as well as the land area it passes and its operating regime since 18 August 99, was ratified by the parliaments of both countries and became effective on 18 November 2001. According to these documents, the Moldovan party undertook a month’s commitment, i.e. by 18 December 2001, to transfer to the property of the property, use, and administration of Ukraine the Odessa - Reni road area in the Palanca area, as well as the land where it passes. Dear colleagues, on February 11, the Moldovan side, according to the act of transferring the Republic of Moldova to the property of Ukraine of the Odessa-Reni road in the Palanca area, transferred only the area, i.e. the canvas of the road without the land on which it passes. Regrettably, the Moldovan side is delaying the transfer to Ukraine of the land transfer act under the area, and this is a clear violation of article 10 of the treaty and article 1 of the Additional Protocol. The Ukrainian side repeatedly drew the attention of the Moldovan authorities to the need for full compliance with the international obligations of the Republic of Moldova under the above - mentioned treaties. As a result of the persistent efforts of the Ukrainian side, the Republic of Moldova has repeatedly confirmed its commitment to a series of documents signed by the parties in the Ukrainian-Moldov consultations and negotiations at various levels, including the highest level. I would like to show you, my fellow Members, a few documents where the Moldovan party has a written obligation to hand over the document. These are also the protocols of the Ukrainian-Moldov Inter-Governmental Commissions on Trade-Economic Cooperation, where it is clearly noted that the Moldovan party assumes an obligation within the monthly deadline to transmit the documents mentioned. This is a document on May 26, 2006, on which the signatures of the Presidents of Ukraine and Moldova at a meeting in St. Petersburg on June 6, 2008, clearly stated the commitment of the Moldovan side to transfer the road to Ukraine. A series of other documents, protocols, agreements, additional protocols, where the clearly stated obligation of the Moldovan party to hand over the documents. As a result of the hard work, however, the real shifts in this issue were not achieved until last year’s government came to power in Moldova with the alliance of democratic forces. It is thanks to the constructive approach of the new Moldovan authorities, the political will they have demonstrated and the declared course for the restoration of a real partnership with Ukraine in recent weeks that has been able to bring about noticeable shifts in the management of this issue, as well as other issues that have become part of the complex, issues that have plagued our relationship over the years. A clear indication of this is the initiation of the process of demarcating the Transnistrian region of the Ukrainian-Moldov state border and the establishment on 29 January 2010 of this segment in the Winnitsk region of the first border sign. This is an event that we have been waiting for since 2001, which has taken place in the presence of representatives of the European Union, Spain, which is now head of the European Union, has gained an extremely high level of evaluation in Europe. I would also like to contribute to the positive outcome of the constructive interaction between Moldova and last December's two-pronged agreement on the protection of the rights of national minorities. The signing of a protocol to the Inter-Governmental Agreement on the Recognition of Property Rights, the agreement on the restoration of aviation connections, the signing of the Agreement on Youth Policy Cooperation. Now I can point out that more than ever, we have come close to finalizing all problems related to the completion of the demarcation of the Ukrainian-Moldov state border. An important event that allowed positive trends to be established was the working visit of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Moldova, Vlad Filat, on February 1st of this year. According to him, the Moldovan side confirmed its readiness to ensure the transfer of the Ukrainian Property Act to the land area under the Odessa-Reni road in the Palanca region as soon as possible. In doing so, both sides agreed to take steps to ensure that this process does not create any additional problems for the local population and contribute to the development of interpersonal contacts at the local level. My optimistic predictions are based on the fact that the Moldovan side is currently completing the internal procedures necessary for the proper formulation of the said act and its transfer to Ukraine. In this connection, I request not to associate this process with the ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the bilateral Agreement on the Functioning of Bridges at the Ukrainian-Moldov border, which today stands in your order of the day, honourable colleagues. We went out, and we have to assume that in our relationship with Moldova, we refused to use the so-called batch approach to solve issues as inefficient and counterproductive. I would also like to point out that, with a view to promoting our national interests and ensuring the sovereignty of the Ukrainian State, there are sufficient weights and instruments to influence the Moldovan side to ensure a positive solution to the issue of land transfer to Ukraine's property. This question is and remains an absolute priority of the Ukrainian-Meldavian relationship and is under my constant control. The Ukrainian side continues to take active political and diplomatic action to ensure that the Republic of Moldova fulfils its international legal obligations. We have also completed procedures for determining the exact size of this area in the area, and within a week of our agreement with the Moldovan side will be held, I hope, the last meeting of experts that will clearly record the transfer procedure. We have every hope that within four weeks, this procedure will finally be completed and the question of a “brow” length of nine years will be resolved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a question to the minister. There's a recording going on, and I'd like the names of the people's deputies to be put on the information board. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u4	Dear Peter Alexiovich! I think today the Supreme Council will fully support the Ministry's proposal to move away from the package principle and still ratify things and allow the ministry to complete the negotiation process. But I have a question for you: what, in principle, do you see a deadline to complete the whole subject of Palanca? Because Ukraine has made more concessions -- we have actually made Moldova a maritime state by giving it a way out into the water. In such circumstances, we should also, at last, set some points above the “and” and say that if the term is not resolved by this time, the matter will not be resolved, Ukraine will then withdraw certain commitments and should start a very hard diplomatic line on Moldova. I mean, what are the terms?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u5	Thank you very much, Reverend Taras Viacheslavovich! I've already said that we're looking forward to solving this issue in a graph that we've been setting for four or five weeks. So far, the Moldovan side, indeed, the new Moldovan authorities are demonstrating a completely constructive approach, and we hope that this time the transfer process will not be disrupted, which is not burdened by any additional conditions. The Ukrainian side, you're absolutely right, transferred to the Republic of Moldova the appropriate area in the Jujulest region as early as 2002, in clear compliance with the protocol. And to wait eight years for the Moldovan side to make a commitment, no one is going to wait. And our position is absolutely, on the one hand, constructive, on the other hand, rigid, because we demand completion of internal procedures and immediate transfer of documents in this area. What's more, I would like to stress, as a result of the internal debate in the Republic of Moldova, that there's not a single step in this area before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u6	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u7	I have deliberately demonstrated these documents, which are signed by the President, Prime Minister of the Republic of Moldova, with a clear commitment and timetable for the transfer, that this is a commitment of the State and not of any political power. And we're going to get out of this by protecting Ukraine's national interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u8	Xenia Leapina, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u9	Please give the floor to the deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u10	Yuri Klukkowski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u11	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Reverend Peter Alexiyovich, please clarify a matter that I have long been plagued with in connection with this problem. Do we exchange territories for property or for sovereignty? And if only owned, what would happen to the village of Palanca in this territory, and if it was under sovereignty, why did there not be a referendum on the change of territory? And if owned, does the entity in the Jujulest region pay taxes to Ukraine or fail to do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u12	Thank you very much for a very good question. The transfer takes place by ownership, in accordance with the interstate agreement and protocol signed, the land transfer to ownership. The size of the area covers only the road painting and the land on which it is located. There is no relation to the settlement of Palanca Republic of Moldova, and that is why the referendum was not held. At the same time, the 430 - foot - long [430 m] area in the Jujulest region does not have a host subject who would be subject to the payment of taxes, for that is just the case. The port is outside the area that we're transferring now. And I hope that the deadline I set will be completed and the procedure for defining the state border, and the demarcation of the border and the Jujulest district, and in the hydrotechnical node area, by the hydraulics in the Dniestrów GES district, which will give us an opportunity. [[By the way, that's a very good question, Yuri Bogdanovich, thank you for him.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u13	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u14	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. Dear Peter Alexiovich! You know, I'm often in the Refreshment, you know, and you know, indignant about what's going on. Because our people have endured inconveniences and have endured inconveniences for many years. They just sat on our heads. So I'm asking you as the head of external economic intelligence to say this to the representatives of Moldova more diplomatically than I said, that we were sitting on our heads as a state of Ukraine, obviously feeling our weakness. And I would ask you to prepare, as a top-ranking official, to prepare the treaty denunciation papers, just in case -- suddenly with memory it's going to be bad, well, 8 years bad for people with memory, what do you do? Wait a month, do you know how long I've been waiting and hearing? There are many ministers now. I'm asking you to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u15	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Yuri Anatolyovich. I have the great privilege of taking the lead in Ukraine’s foreign political affairs, and I have never been led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or weak. We always come out of the very clear protection of Ukraine's national interests. At the same time, I believe that today’s transfer of land to our property in the village of Palanca Moldova will create comfortable conditions for moving and for connecting Odessa to Renny. I emphasize that the road painting has been passed on to Ukraine, and the property rights protocol has been passed on to us. And there are no obstacles to this road for Ukrainian, Moldovan, and other citizens. Our position today is that we have to make sure that property is not on a road painting but on a land plot, for this territory is to be the sovereign territory of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u16	People's MP Kolocei, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u17	Vladimir Mihajlovich, thank you very much, I ask you to pass the word to Konovaluku Valeri Ilic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear Peter Alexiovich. Indeed, the absence of a long - term minister of foreign affairs has affected the situation, the situation. But it's very interesting about the question, considering, in finding out this problem with the Moldovan side, that instead of giving up the terminal in Jujulesto, and every year during the spring flood, the configuration actually changes when, there, the Prut River falls into the Danube. And how will this be accepted further because this problem will continue to arise? And with regard to the village of Palanca, where twice is actually forced to go through customs and border control when crossing our border. And the final question, if possible, is to give a full assessment today of the situation in general in this compound of GUAM where it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u19	Thank you very much, Reverend Valérie Illich. I would like to point out that the village of Jujuleschi, where 430 meters of Ukrainian territory was passed to the Moldovan side, that's the coast of the Danube, that's far enough from Pruto. And the points that are fixed in the delimitation of the state border are fixed, and there is no relation to the change in the direction of the Danube River. We're actually very close to being demarcated today, as set out in the Delimitation Treaty. I am optimistic, and I hope that, over a short period of time, when we receive the relevant directives, we will mark this area, place it in the area, and there will be no further discussion about the location of the state border of Ukraine. You have rightly raised the question, Your Honor Valérie Illich, of creating inconveniences for citizens who had to cross the state border twice before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u20	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u21	On a trip between Odessa and Rennie. This issue was resolved and we agreed with the Moldovan side that there would be no border clearance on this part of the road. So far, there's a DAI post that just checks cars and we don't create any inconveniences. At the same time, we will really come out of the protection of the economic interests of our nation in order to ensure that this area of the border does not stop. It was transparent for people, but it didn't become transparent for smugglers, to protect the economic interests of our nation. And I can tell you that today, unfortunately or fortunately, there are still discussions, because we will agree with the Odessa District Administration and the local authorities, and with other positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u22	Thank you. Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u23	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, it is clear that the problem is more complex than it seems, at least because, for example, the creation of the Palanca public committee in Moldova, which is setting up and is obviously ready to stage the protests, requiring its President to veto the parliament's decision to ratify the treaty. In addition, Palanca's ghost is the head of local self-government, claiming that the problem is not only in this area, but that there is a country behind it where Moldovan citizens are believed to be shut down. And in this regard, I have a question. Has it not been considered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when Ukraine can unilaterally identify and mark the borders of the land concerned? This is allowed in international practice. Thank you. And the question was solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u24	Thank you so much for raising this very topical question. I would like to inform you that, over the last month, the expert groups of Ukraine and Moldova, not in a unilateral way, but in a bilateral order, have already defined borders. There is no conflict about boundaries. We hope that within a week the specified protocol will also be signed at the political level on borders. At the same time, you are absolutely right to indignant the inhabitants of Palanca about access to their own agricultural land. And we've proposed a mechanism that guarantees free access for Moldovan citizens. And I pointed out in my statement that transfer to ownership of this area should not create any problems for either Ukrainian or Moldovan citizens. At the same time, the creation of any committee that causes Moldova's failure to fulfil its obligations will create an unconditional response from the Ukrainian authorities. I said that we have enough weights to ensure that Moldova fulfils its obligations. We'd like to hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u25	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u26	Peter Alexiyovich, we had a fruitful discussion on all of this on the committee, this is a matter on the committee. I believe that under the circumstances the Supreme Council should take into account not only the report but also certain responsibilities of the Ministry to make in the shortest, if these are monthly terms, well if you do not report here orally in the Supreme Council, at least in writing. I asked then, and now I would like to stress that we should give broader documents, at least to the MPs, about the progress of our relationship with Moldova, the two-ways first and the problems that are ahead, which are and will be solved. I have a question. We've already talked about hydrosol on the Dniestrovsk AES. I'd like this to be a little bit clearer, because after we've practically put the Dniestrów AES into operation, there's a question with submerging areas, how they're solved in Moldova, how this is actually being developed right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Andrey. I really agree with the fact that we do not have to be attached to any positions, and I once again urge that the ratification of the Bridge Agreement be absolutely necessary today in the Supreme Council, because it is in fact entirely in the interests of Ukraine. At the same time, I can tell you that I guarantee that we will demonstrate progress in Jujuleste and in the hydraulics. The only thing I need to do is complete the procedure for approving directives on my mandate to conclude these negotiations, and this issue will be resolved as soon as possible. I think it's not even a matter of weeks, it's days. Thank you for your attention, Mr. Andrey, and for your support. By the way, I'd like to thank the committee yesterday for the totally constructive position and the long-standing cooperation with the Ministry. Thank you very much to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u28	Dear colleagues. Pavlovsky’s national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, dear Peter Alexiovich! It turns out that, despite the fact that the international agreements between Ukraine and Moldova have been signed, ratified, the Ukrainian side has implemented them by 100 percent, Moldova promises to do so, in fact we do not see the implementation of these agreements. So maybe it's time to act more decisively? I mean, diplomatic methods, more harsh references, notes, somehow motivate, perhaps by means of the international community of Moldova to fulfil its obligations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u30	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I reiterate that in the event of a breakdown of the schedule and failure by the Moldovan side of its commitments, Ukraine is ready to live with additional weights. I hope it doesn't come to that. But the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in protecting Ukraine's national interests will be absolutely strong, you can be absolutely convinced of that. No positions. If, of course, we were to return now in 2002, we would have to exchange documents instead of handing them over in one-sided order. But I wouldn't want to analyze the 2002 action. And so far, we are absolutely convinced that we have good reason to be optimistic about these issues with our Moldovan partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u31	Vladimir Karpuk, please. Vladimir Karpuk, microphone. No questions? Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u32	Dear Peter Alexiovich, I have a few questions. I hope that with you coming to this ministry, Ukraine will not do what has happened to previous ministers. Yes, especially in the absence of activity, or criminal activity, the then ministers of Ogryzka and Tarasuk Ukraine lost 71,000 miles [71,000 km], you remember, near the Snake Island in favor of Romania. So I'd like to ask you a question. How do we stand today in this area as regards the judgment of the Hague Court? And what process is Ukraine now in? Are there settled issues of the border between Ukraine and Romania? And are Romania and Moldova part of the claims to Ukraine’s territorial integrity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, I would not like to. Well, at least I won't be involved in discussing the activities of previous ministers. At the same time, I can very clearly and responsibly stress to you that there is no procedure for reviewing the decisions of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. This decision is final, and it is not an accusation. And that is, as it were, the status of this court. So what should the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ukraine do as a state? To enforce the judgment of the court. If you let me give my own assessment of this decision, I can say that out of the 25 oil and gas-efficient 19 areas left Ukraine. And the only war that Ukraine lost was the information war, we didn't prepare for it, we didn't lead it. And this image was created. This is my own position, I'm ready to discuss on the committee or in any other format to prove it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u34	Vladimir Yavorowski. It doesn't, does it? The sand of John, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u35	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mr. Secretary, I have another question. We're talking about the Palanca area today, the Jujulest area, but there's still a problem at the level of the Dniestrowski GRES. Please tell me, what is the situation in the negotiating process of this particular problem, and how is it resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u36	I can inform you that question. The solution to the question of hydrousel Dnistrovski GES-2, which is part of the NovoDystrovsky Hydroaccumulative Power Station complex, is previously agreed upon. And all we're waiting for is for the approval of directives that will allow the minister to sign the proper dilation of the hydraulics complex. An agreement has been reached that the rest of the complex will be transferred to a free lease on the Ukrainian side, which will allow the station to be fully operational in the appropriate safe mode. I am convinced that the sooner we complete this procedure, the sooner we will be able to use this battery fully. Hydroaccumulative power station. Another step to this has been taken recently when I signed an additional property protocol that gives us the ability to form property.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u37	Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Minister. First of all, I'd like to make a public record of what, with your arrival of international life, the international appearance of Ukraine in the international arena has gone awry. I'm just grateful and I don't regret voting for you. And now to the essence of the question itself, well, our western border is more or less, so to speak, inhabited, equipped, civilized and so forth. Now we're finishing it, let's say, east. South-West Moldovan-Ukrainian level. I see that there are some breakthroughs here, too, and everything should be in place. I'd like to ask you while you're the minister, and God forbid, I want to ask you what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on in our best direction on our eastern border, which today is practically completely open, it actually doesn't even exist. It reminds us so, you know, the widow’s courtyard, which is completely decomposed and where anyone might want to go in and out. What's the situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u39	I really appreciate it. We do. Well, you know, we have a two-way commission on the demarcation of the state border between Ukraine and Russia. The issue of delimitation of the state border has been completed, and to date only needs to be highlighted in the area. The Ukrainian side is constantly raising this issue when they meet with our Russian partners and colleagues. And I hope that we will soon be able to resume the work of our joint demarcation commission. There is no legal basis for not demarcating today. And the last, let's say, is the revitalization of relations with the Russian Federation and the transition to a completely constructive dialogue not only in terms of the border, but also in terms of agreement. Now in Munich we have arranged, for example, for Ukrainian experts in Transnistria to access the Kobasna munitions depot, which poses a serious threat to Ukraine’s national security. We made a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u40	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the time is running out, we have even taken over. But according to the Rules, 20 minutes per question. So it's okay here. Have a seat, Peter Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, you remember that you and I have postponed the ratification of the relevant agreement to receive information from the minister, so we now have every reason to listen to the committee's position once again, the committee heads of Oleg Grigorovich Belarus will decide on the ratification of the document. Please, Oleg Grigorovich. This is a speech on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the maintenance of road bridges at the Ukrainian-Moldov State border, 0147. And when we're done with the question, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk will have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u41	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The question that is being considered so interesting and comprehensively today is how a drop of water concentrates – it is about protecting Ukraine's national interests. Not in words, but in deeds. At its plenary session on 20 January, during the consideration of the draft ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the maintenance of road bridges on the Ukraine-Moldian border, this was document 0147, the Committee and the National Deputies expressed concern about the chronic failure of the Moldovan side to fulfil its obligations under the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova on the State Border of 18 August 1999, in particular those relating to the transfer to Ukraine of part of the Odessa-Reni road to the area of Palanka. In this regard, the bill was postponed. We think it was the right decision of the Supreme Council. The time has come to resolve the entire set of issues that have accumulated. It's time to open this Pandora box and open this bag. And none of these issues can be related to another, as has been done in our bilateral relationship. Yesterday, in line with the decision of the Conciliation Council, which reopened the ratification issue, a three - hour meeting of the Committee was held with the participation of the Foreign Minister, the Deputy Minister, and all the relevant heads of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As we can see from the Minister's report, after the decision of the Supreme Council, there was a visit by the Prime Minister of Moldova, Mr. Filat, to Kiev, and there is considerable progress in addressing all these issues, which are few. And today, according to the recommendations we made at yesterday's meeting, there is reason to believe that the ministry is on the right track, and that within four or five weeks the ministry, which has taken a constructive but even strong and even rigid position, has the entire arsenal of diplomatic, legal and political measures to address this issue in accordance with the signed agreements and in accordance with the national interests of Ukraine. I think that the example of relations with Moldova is a good example of how the authorities of Ukraine should act, and this example shows that we really need not only the distribution of branches of power, but also the distribution of all known branches of power, but also the unity of branches of government. Because the presidents had changed historically, the premieres changed too often, and the ministers too often created artificial problems. One fact is that the Ukrainian side handed Jujulest over to Moldova, not only physically but also legally, without receiving an action in return. It's diplomatic and legal and state-owned nonsense, and you don't have to repeat it. That's why I think, and it's a solid opinion from all the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and they've been in full stock, that today there are good reasons to look at each issue separately, and that the question of the exploitation of motor bridges across the Dniester River, where we as a state and our trade, the trade, are very interested, is the basis for a positive decision today on the ratification of this agreement. Please support the recommendation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and make a ratification decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u42	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, since we have discussed this issue and received information, if you accept such a suggestion that each faction should express its attitude toward the ratification of this document. Is there no objection? Let's do it in one minute. Please, the Communist faction, your attitude towards document ratification. Then let's begin, Sergey the Greenwich microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u43	Thank you. Greenewic, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, we must note the dynamics that are now being seen in the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we can be very happy about the optimism expressed by the minister regarding the future solution to this issue. But there is one problem that needs to be discussed. Unfortunately, there is no comprehensive programme for the development of Ukrainian Dodun and Presidential Decree on the development of the Southwest part of the Odessa region, which envisions the construction of the new Odessa-Rani road. And if you look at the map of Palanca, it's the only way out of the Moldovan side to Odessa. And we have to take into account that there is no elected president in Moldova today, and this question will be prolonged until we have decided on our implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u44	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u45	The roads of Odessa-Reni are not because of the Dniestrovski flats, which have national status – a reserve, but in order to load the work of the Ishmael, Rhine ports, Ust-Dunajski and the work of Ukrainian-Danube steaming. This is quite a challenge and needs to be taken into account because of the social opportunities of the two countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! From the factions, please, from the factions for one minute. There are no factions. It's post-faction. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u47	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In the process of addressing these two issues, I would like to stress once again the position of our committee, where we unanimously supported the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not to unite the two issues, the exploitation of bridges -- this treaty is vital to Ukraine today. As far as resolving the issues with Palanca is concerned, I think we really need to allow the Ministry to complete this process, the general principle is no harm. Let them prove for a month-and-a-half who have time, this matter to the end. And if the Moldovan side then creates problems, then we have to take absolutely definite action to make it difficult for the Moldovan side to access the Jujulesto terminal because there have been severe violations. To engage in legal proceedings and so forth. In addition, to mention the responsibility of the Prime Minister, who handed over Jujulesto in a unilateral manner in 2002 without taking the appropriate side of the Palace, I think to criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u48	Thank you, Your Honor, for voting, please! Draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the maintenance of road bridges at the Ukrainian-Moldov State border to approve this draft law as a law of Ukraine. [[Registration number 0147]] [[10:44:56]] For 339 Decision taken. Dear National MPs, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk's replica, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u49	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine First of all, I would like to celebrate the highly professional work of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Dusty and all Ukrainian diplomats in promoting Ukraine's national interests. The other one. I'd like to respond to a regional MP who mentioned my last name in the context of Snake Island. I mean, grief is the kind of thing that dilettarians try to join. In fact, yesterday's European Integration Committee meeting showed this deputy his complete delicacy in the readmission and visa regime. I mean, you can lose territory if you have it, and you exercise sovereignty over it. The International Court of Justice in The Hague did not question the sovereignty of Ukraine over the island of Snakes in any way. The question was about the continental shelf around Snake Island, and I will not go into detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u50	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u51	But I'll refer to the arguments that Minister Dusty made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, two factions are the factions of the Timoshenko Yulia and the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" require a 30-minute recess or a statement. Boris Kulikov, please. Kirilo Kulikov, I'm sorry, what's the motive?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u53	On the basis of the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u54	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u55	On the basis of the order of the day, this is our statement. "We, the two factions, consider it, incomprehensible why, from the order of the day, the issue of up to 12 hours of what was -- the report of the interim commission of inquiry -- has become the last question. That's why I'm asking, so I'm asking you to report to the National Deputies right now according to the Order of the Temporary Investigation Commission investigating the abuse of an official of the Kiev City Administration and everything. [[It doesn't take much time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u56	That's what I heard. Do you want me to take it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u57	That's the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, no problem. Let's do that. In our second reading chapter, we will consider this question. No objections? Well, there's a denial.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u59	Adam Ivanovich, this was accepted on the Conciliation Council in order of the day, and this question stood. And now, for some reason, the order of the day has changed. So we ask this question first.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to put this situation to a vote right now. That's a draft hearing order. The draft Decision on the results of the work of the Temporary Investigation Commission on the study of the situation in Kiev is now under consideration. I think by voting, please make a decision. Please vote. Vote, please. [[10:48:38]] For 215 Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. Dear colleagues, if there is no discussion, we will consider the matter in the second reading after. And here's the question. No objections? In the second reading, let us ask these questions, and we will now go through and consider them. Well, let's not disturb, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u61	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u62	Dear National Deputies! A draft regulation on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "The Nuclear-Free Status of Ukraine - Real Guarantees" is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Greenewecki. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Belarus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, December 5, 2009, was 15 years old from the signing of the Budapest Memorandum. Our nation has consistently and relentlessly adhered to its obligation not to accept, produce, or acquire such weapons. The major nations that signed the agreed memorandum assumed political obligations in accordance with the principles of the Helsinki Final Act on Security and Cooperation in Europe: respect for independence and sovereignty and the existing borders of Ukraine; refrain from threatening or using force against the territorial value or political independence of Ukraine and the use of any weapon against our country; refrain from economic pressure aimed at subduing Ukraine's own interests to exercise the rights inherent in its sovereignty and thereby losing any advantage. Unfortunately, the Budapest Memorandum did not provide for a specific mechanism for implementing these obligations, except for consultations, it was not reinforced by sufficient international legal guarantees of independence and sovereignty of the nuclear-free Ukraine. The increase since the signing of the Budapest memorandum of nuclear powers that actually possess nuclear weapons, the development of world events that testifies to their potential increase, poses a threat to security on both global scale and for individual nations, particularly nuclear - free nations. Thus today's situation requires the evolution of the ideology set out in the Budapest Memorandum and its updated application in a document that is internationally binding and premeditated to produce an international legal instrument that would guarantee a reliable response to the current challenges of national security in our country. The first step on this path is to put the state-guarantee into developing the Budapest Memorandum of Understanding with Ukraine, which would be embodied in a document that has international legal status. The approval of such a document by the United Nations, the strengthening of nuclear obligations with regard to international legal safeguards for non-nuclear countries, would be a significant contribution to the creation of a secure environment, not only on the European continent, but worldwide. The appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Congress of the United States of America, the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, the Parliament of the French Republic, the National Assembly of the People's Representatives of the People's Republic, as legislative bodies of the countries guaranteeing our national security, with the call to support this initiative will contribute to the strengthening of peace and international security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u64	Please sign up for Sergey Greenewecki. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u65	Dear reporter! This is really a very painful question, this is the only Budapest treaty that would guarantee Ukraine, let's say there's some security for the strong, so-called countries in which Russia is involved. But we know very well with you that the Russian side is now oppressing certain militaristic muscles, so to speak, in view of the adoption of their law that Russia is ready to defend, say, its Russian population in other countries and even to use force to do so. I'm not quoting, I'm just passing on this document. The second document that Russia stated that it was using nuclear weapons even in local conflicts, not just in large-scale conflicts. So I have a question for you: “How does this statement that you have prepared give me a sense of your good intentions, let’s say that we somehow strengthen these Budapest decisions, but this will give us something in this situation in our relationship today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Alexandrovich, a truly published military doctrine of the Russian Federation. To our deep conviction, we should hear a report in this room, such as the Chief of General Staff for what is happening in the neighbouring states, which are military doctrines, and determine our perspective, the State of Ukraine. So, to my profound conviction, there is a new wave today and there are new reasons, taking into account the democratic elections of the President of Ukraine, in order to highlight this particular issue, the protection of national interests, security, including the situation of the Budapest Memorandum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u67	Ivan Hare, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u68	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Your Honor, you demand special guarantees for Ukraine as a state that voluntarily disposed of a nuclear arsenal. I don't think anyone's going to go to that kind of guarantees today. I think the real purpose of your decision is completely different because you're proposing this special mechanism of safeguards for Ukraine through a treaty for all non-nuclear states, that is, you're contradicting the club of nuclear states to all non-nuclear states. In fact, it is the ideology of decommissioning Ukraine from a Euro-Atlantic security space toward some kind of neutrality. Did I get you right or did I get you wrong? Because it sounds like a good thing, but at least very much in the field of illusions, it's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u69	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Well, I understand that for a lot of people in this room, it's a state test. So if you read the second paragraph of the draft regulation, it says here that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will ensure the preparation of the draft international treaty. The Cabinet of Ministers will be formed - let them work, no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u70	National Deputy Slobodan, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. None. Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u71	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Sergey Rafailovich, you are known as a supporter of the neutral status of Ukraine, there are your publications, we know your point of view. It is not clearly appreciated by both political scientists and experts from our country’s national security. This ruling “Ukrainian Nuclear-Free Status – Real Guarantees” actually weakens Ukraine's position, as Ukraine's disposal of nuclear weapons is also ambiguously valued in society. And, practically, we're giving up the position of Ukraine. We understand that the decision to accept and entrust the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare an international agreement without guaranteeing that these agreements will be signed, or will indeed guarantee Ukraine's security under the Budapest Memorandum, this will be another document that will testify to Ukraine's compromises, as, indeed, a country that could be a player in European politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleague, this is about the application, only about the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would ask you not to exaggerate the status of this document. As far as my position is concerned, it's consistent, it's consistent with the will of the Ukrainian people, who passed their sentence in December of the 91st.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Sergey Rafailovich, I share your concern about this issue, which is now under preparation. But I think it should be more prepared, more seriously, because the military doctrine of the Russian Federation has now brought certain challenges and threats to Ukraine. The Romanian Parliament’s decision to deploy missiles on their territory also posed challenges and some threat to our sovereignty. Let's call things our names. So you and I need to think now about the categories that this carries, what threats to us. I think that in the second reading of this statement we should add these positions, which are just to name things by their names, not to bypass them, you know, both Romania and Russia, which is appropriate, because it's a NATO country and I don't see anything that's friendly about what I don't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u75	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, well, it's hard not to agree with your thoughts. But once again, I would like to point out that yesterday, at a meeting of the National Security and Defence Committee of the sixth session of the Supreme Council, these are the issues that are addressed. The chairman of the committee has been instructed to prepare letters in order to process exactly what you are talking about. And we can report it to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u76	Thank you, please sit down, Sergey Raphaelovich. Belarus Oleg Grigorovich, position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u77	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the nuclear-free status of Ukraine, the real guarantees were considered very carefully twice at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and today, after all consultations with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the Committee on National Security and Defence, with other committees, we are ready to report to the Supreme Council on the assessment of this document and on our recommendations and proposals. The document is a very interesting and important question. But the title of the document itself raises new questions. The nuclear - free status of Ukraine is a real guarantee. What guarantees? What is the reality? The nuclear-weapon-free status of Ukraine is guaranteed by the large nuclear powers, which have jointly signed the Budapest memorandum in response to a voluntary agreement and a historically important initiative by Ukraine to renounce nuclear weapons. The example of Ukraine was unprecedented and gave rise to a rejection of the nuclear weapons of Kazakhstan and Belarus. It could be if the name was about legal guarantees and about the word security. Unfortunately, there is no such thing. The question therefore arises that the nuclear powers are not interested at this stage, especially given the situation in Ukraine, its evolution, the transformation to address such issues. Perhaps after a while this question will be in time. Therefore, at its meeting on 2 December 2009, following the consideration of the draft decision on the Supreme Council's application, the author recommended that it be developed by means of a joint working group composed of representatives of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the author, the Committee on National Security and Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. A number of committees expressed their comments, warnings. And that only increases our offer. This is about the approval of a statement that should initiate an extremely important unique international document, the draft of the International Treaty of Great Nuclear Powers, aimed at developing the Budapest Memorandum. The point is that the author aims to reach a decision of the United Nations, and there are 200 nations, including new nuclear nations, that will take years if not decades. The Rules Committee states that the draft Decree was drafted in violation of article 46 of the Rules, there are other observations. So I repeat the committee's recommendation, to send for work by creating a highly professional, authoritative, responsible working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Oleg Zarubinski, we're leaving the factions now. The next one is Bogdan, the faction of Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u79	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You know, during the discussion, you could hear enough conflicting statements, it was quite right, it was noted that the volume, the extent of the threat to Ukraine’s security, by the way, not only nuclear and military security, but economic security is on the rise. Why I'm stressing economic security, because in the Budapest Memorandum, one of the chapters is about guarantees not to tolerate economic pressure on Ukraine in order to undermine its sovereignty, territorial integrity and so on. How do I see this contradiction? So the threats are increasing, and the tools to protect ourselves from these threats are being rejected. It's kind of weird, and I think it's a wrong, incorrect logic. First. One second. It's an axiom -- everyone knows that the only country in the world that voluntarily gave up nuclear weapons is Ukraine. And when they talk about it today, and unfortunately, my distinguished colleagues say that in this case, if we insist on producing a real international legal document rather than a raging declaration, it will somehow undermine Ukraine's interests. On the contrary, let us frankly say that the Nuclear Club officially has only five countries, and not officially nuclear weapons are as low as five nations, nations of the world, and everyone knows. And so today, not to use this precedent that Ukraine's only one in the world has given up nuclear weapons for insistence, to force, if you want, to pedal the issue of providing real machinery, tools, fighting threats, I don't think that's going to fit state ideology at all. And one more moment, everyone understands that in the state in which this Budapest Memorandum is now, it does not oblige anyone to do anything. What are these guarantees when it comes to the fact that Ukraine can call upon States to consult? What advice is, you know very well that in most cases they don't finish anything. One more moment, and nobody's saying that, obviously, not all of the memos read that neither France nor the People's Republic of China signed their signatures. So how can Ukraine appeal to these powerful states to consult with them if they have not even signed under this memorandum? It seems to me that if there is such, let's say, the opposite of thoughts or the incomplete awareness of the importance of this document, then maybe it's really accepted as a basis and then worked out, considering these thoughts, but it needs to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u80	Andrew School of Faction instead of Bogdan, please. Next is Anatoly Grizzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u81	Of course, respected radio audiences, TV sets, respected chairman, respected national MPs! Of course, nuclear status is a thing that we quickly acquired in Ukraine. We were a powerful nuclear power with a potential that was valued second, third in the world, in principle, depending on how we analyzed the nuclear potential that we had. Nevertheless, at that time we made decisions in the walls of the Supreme Council to give up nuclear potential. There were many reasons for this. I have never personally been a supporter of this step. But what has happened has no reverse power. Now all we can say is that the safeguards mechanism, the safeguards mechanism that was offered to Ukraine instead of giving up nuclear weapons, doesn't work. So the Budapest Treaty exists in principle, is a paper form, but there is no implementation of security for Ukraine through the Budapest Protocol or the Budapest Treaty. We remember, and I think we have also not forgotten the situation that arose around Tuzla when the sovereignty of Ukraine and the sovereignty of the territory were undermined. Until now, we remember the absence of reactions from countries united in the Budapest Memorandum. When we talk about who was the one who was speaking in the Ukrainian territory, this is one of the states that was the guarantor of the sovereignty and integrity of the Ukrainian State. So anyway, I welcome this step that leads to a rethinking of the nuclear-free status of Ukraine, the status of nuclear-free security. Because we really understand that there are countries like: Pakistan, India, they use nuclear weapons as a means of deterrence, because to develop a system of proof, of bringing these systems, or nuclear weapons, nuclear bombs, as is commonly called destination, it's a long-lasting project, and perhaps for many countries, it's not a viable project. But nevertheless, we must, given that there is no nuclear guarantee in Ukraine and there will be no more, we must work on the Ukrainian security mechanism. I believe that one such mechanism is a collective security mechanism, but in any case without discussion, I am confident, and in this session room too, we must accept a simple postulate that those who have caused the rejection of nuclear status, those who have used our nuclear weapons, must build a clear and transparent mechanism to ensure the sovereign integrity and integrity of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u82	Anatoly Stepanovich Gricenko of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u83	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, my dear colleagues, I think that the author of the bill, Sergey Rafailovich Grinewecki, should be pleased. Because, at the very least, the issue raised in the draft decrees has been heard across Ukraine and wider, outside the country. Recently there were 15 years of signing this memorandum. And just like the previous speakers, and just like the experts who evaluated this document at the time of its signing, we've all found out, there's no guarantee. The consultation mechanism, which is set up there, does not go beyond existing OSCE-type mechanisms, which also does not work. UN, which doesn't work either. Because the guaranteeing countries, they're permanent members of the UN Security Council, in the round of countries only if there's consensus that can be made. As far as Ukraine is concerned, there will be no such consensus. You just have to understand that. And so, I think it was right for Sergey Rafailovich not to insist on accepting this document now. I want to emphasize why now. Some concerns may be expressed, more so, with a delicate name, demands on others, or requests on others from a strong country. In what situation will Ukraine now turn to the world’s leading nations, members of the nuclear club? In a situation where the current president finishes his term, when the winners have not yet been recognized, when there is actually a de jure in the Council, and in fact there is no coalition when the government finishes its work. In such a weak state, it makes no sense to make meaningful statements. As a minimum, we need to take a break, and I would like the drafter to agree, for a couple of months, until he's formed, if he's formed, a stable majority, a government created that will understand the same way we do, and do what he's tasked with, and conduct appropriate consultations. If this is not done, this statement will have no consequences other than a negative demonstration of our weakness. Once again, there are no guarantees and no guarantees. I propose, after hearing this draft document, that the decision be postponed by sending it back to work and reinstating it a few months later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u84	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, a faction of Communists, prepare the Kožari from the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! Simonenko, the faction of the Company. The faction will support and vote in favour of the proposal. And speaking from this rostrum, I would like to address everyone here so that we can understand what is going on. In 1991, a nationalist act of treason and betrayal was committed by certain political forces in 1990, when nuclear weapons were handed over without appropriate measures to protect Ukraine's national interests. Then they believed the Americans, and today they also continue to serve their interests. The Americans promised 170 million dollars and did not give this money until today in Pavlovgrad, we have, in fact, a technological disaster because there are rocket engines. I would also like to address those who say that we have weaknesses to some extent in the defence of the country. Were you not ministers when you destroyed the Ukrainian Navy, destroying the Air Force, the missile complex, the missile complex? Are you going to protect the country's independence with a three-way or a horn?Oh, my God! Next. If we are to say that security is to be ensured, policies must first and foremost be implemented internally so that security can be achieved through the financing of the development of the defence complex and thus the definition of a clear military doctrine that is understandable to the world community. Next. When we talk about what needs to be done today, we certainly need to pursue clear policies first, and I propose to hold a referendum in our country on the NATO military-policy bloc, and to set points for speculation on this issue. I also propose to implement the decision and will of the people of Ukraine, as set out in the All-Ukrainian referendum on 01 December 1991, which clearly states that Ukraine will have a nuclear-free and off-block status in the future. You don't want to do that, gentlemen. And in this situation, by disarming Ukraine today, making it essentially an object for manipulation and use in foreign-political relations as a territory to destroy Slav unity and our civilization, you are today trying to defend your free policy with such statements. I believe that the decision must be made and that this must be the first step in a consistent course that we must follow at the will of our people. That is why I propose to the newly elected President to finally propose a decree to be followed by the will of the people to hold a referendum on the accession or not of NATO and to pursue a clear and understandable policy to enhance the security of our country. The Company's faction will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u86	Leonid Kojara, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u87	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I would like to draw your attention to why the Budapest Memorandum was adopted and why it was adopted not in 1992, when the collapse of the Soviet Union was completed, but only in 1994. You remember that when Ukraine ratified the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty, we also wanted assurances of our nuclear - free status. And so when we wrote a document on the ratification of this treaty, our comments, our warnings came out on two pages. And when our partners, both from the East and the West, saw that we were not actually ratifying the Start Treaty, they stopped talking to us about that. In fact, Ukraine was isolated from both East and West for two years. And it was only in 1994, when Ukraine actually ratified the strategic arms limitation document, that we actually started a new relationship with both the United States and Russia. So any idea of new additional safeguards is a very serious question, because this raises a certain question about our nuclear-free status. I absolutely agree with the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Belarus and I had a meeting, and we think that there might be some kind of celebration of that act in 94, but this should be a political statement in which we should be very careful to raise questions about additional safeguards for nuclear status. Thus, our faction supports the Committee’s decision on foreign matters, and we believe that a special group should be set up to represent members from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security, and necessarily experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and perhaps experts from the Ministry of Defence. So we suggest that we make this application for a second reading. Thank you very much for your attention. For processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u88	Thank God the election's over and there'd be a whole different position before the election, I think. Let us move on to the speeches made by the national deputies. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare. Gregory Smythech will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u89	Honorable national MPs, concerned about security issues, are fully justified by the implementation, so - called, multi - vector policies and the unwillingness to rebuild Ukraine’s Armed Forces. Because our politicians were impressed by the virus of unlimited pacifism, Ukraine found itself in a security vacuum zone. In addition, Ukrainians, like other countries, now need to find answers to new security challenges such as cyber attacks, uncontrolled migration, radical religious movements, drug trafficking, and many more. It is clear that Ukraine's nuclear disarmament took place without the necessary security assurances of Ukraine, primarily because of Russia's position, which at any cost wanted to deprive Ukraine of nuclear weapons. Ukraine’s security cannot be guaranteed by the author’s proposals in the decision. What does the author propose? He proposes to seek special security assurances for Ukraine as a state that has abandoned the voluntary third nuclear potential in the world. But the author understands very well that it's too late, so he's proposing an international legal instrument that has to be adopted by the UN for all nuclear-weapon-free states. It is clear that the main idea of the author is not in this, but in order to take Ukraine out of the Euro-Atlantic security space to continue working on what is called a non-productive idea of neutrality for Ukraine, because it states in the draft that since Ukraine does not belong to one or another safe block, it should essentially look for a third way. There is no third path today because in the world today, not individual states are competing, but the entire conglomerates of states like the European Union plus the United States, plus the United States, such as a group of Muslim countries, such as groups of Eastern and Southern Asian countries. There's China, there's India and there's other countries. And who wants to be smart today, who wants to implement the policy of “my house of the world” today, will be on the verge of world development today. We have no other way today to go to NATO, where, among other things, the Russian Federation is headed, because it cannot find the answer to such challenges as China's violent development with migration in its territory, with Muslim fundamentalism crawling through Volzah and tearing Russia apart into pieces, such as uncontrolled migration. So I urge you, honourable national MPs, to take such serious matters seriously and to understand that Ukraine has made its own civilisational choice is Europe. And we're not going anywhere, and there's no other way in which we can guarantee security than to participate in NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u90	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next thing you know, the party's gonna be on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u91	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! The questions that we are considering, which Greenewecki has put today, are entirely fair, and rightly stands in the order of the day today. I want to tell you the following way. I don't know if a hundred percent of the people's deputies have read this Budapest Agreement document. Has anyone read it? It's a memo. What is a memorandum in international law? Does it guarantee the fulfillment of its obligations? This, you know, as one man says, he gave his word and took his word. And there's nothing else. I want to ask you, who prepared these papers then? May I remind you, Kravczuk was President, Foreign Minister Zlenko and First Deputy. Who do you think is so smart? Tarasyuk. Now, then, after Tarasjuk, please state the Readmission Act, who was the Foreign Minister? Tarasyuk took part. Please tell me who took part. Have the Ukrainian people been assigned to deal with a case in the Hague court in the territory of Ukraine and the continental shelf? Tarasyuk. So tell me, who is the enemy of Ukraine, who is destroying Ukraine's territorial integrity and independence? Tarasuk and others. So I think it's time for the Supreme Council to decide once and for all: Ukraine can't make unilateral decisions that are detrimental to Ukraine's national security. If they are parity, they should be parity. If they are adequate, they should be adequate, not adequate: we are waiting for you to think. And yesterday, on the Tarasyuk Committee, he says, "Do you know what we are if we accept the denunciation of the readmission agreement, what will they think of us?" And you know that Ukraine has failed to achieve such opportunities and that democratic norms have failed to ensure that our citizens have equal rights to get a visa regime between Europe and other countries? Wait till we're a second-rate nation or us. That's how we count if they want to count us. That's why I'm saying and I'm always in this position that Ukraine should behave with dignity in terms of having appropriate agreements and on an international scale that correspond, firstly, to national interests that do not compromise our rights and our dignity as the Ukrainian people. So I propose to support Greenewetsk's initiative in the first reading and, of course, that he be able to work out the observations that have been made today by the national MPs and then accept it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u92	National Deputy Evening, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u93	Dear People's Deputies, the faction of the Party of the Regions will support this bill on first reading. Because, really, when we're promised that the Americans will give us money, we're going to be a non-nuclear Power. We didn't get the money, we didn't get anything. We have one headache today. The faction of the Party of the Regions will therefore support the bill in its first reading and we will vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u94	Andrew Schlell, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Vladimir Yavorowski, handing over the right to speak. Next one's gonna be a jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u95	Dear voters, dear fellow national MPs! First of all, what I would like, with very little time, is to answer those "ura-radicals" who today are tearing up their shirts and shouting, that's when they gave up nuclear weapons. I have an episode right before my eyes when our first defence minister, Constantine Morozov, came to the Bureau meeting, then there was a Presidency of the Supreme Council, literally white, and he told us that under the Pervomayan mines, where our missiles are standing, they started to heat up, the temperature is rising, and he said that we don't know what to do anymore, because all the documentation, all the major professionals, is in Russia, Moscow, their General Staff, and Ukraine is completely incapable of controlling what's going on. It is simply to extinguish your passion today, your so late wisdom that nuclear weapons could then be held back. Today, there are radicals in Ukrainian society who urge us to say that we have the ore, to create only this completed cycle, to acquire materials, and to restore nuclear weapons. This is especially so during the great economic crisis. That's why I'm here. Today we need to understand that this is a fundamental issue today -- the security of the Ukrainian state. On the one hand, we understand what is happening in Iran today, the situation is uncontrollable. On the other hand, there is South Korea, where situations also arise. Ukraine remained with paper in hand, which today, in fact, is Budapest, which gives us absolutely no guarantee, no guarantee. Today. I respect Greenewecko, and I realize that he didn't just write it as a speculative document, but I want to tell you, Grinewecki's goodness, it's simply a literary addition to that Budapest document that's not guaranteed by Ukraine. And today we're talking about, oh, there's already been an election, there's a president who's been talking about, by the way, he's been talking about the fact that he's against European orientation and all that sort of thing, and he's going to protect us. I don't believe in this protection. Because there is one thing that is said today, before lunch, and after lunch, it is quite different to play with different sides. Because of this, we will not vote, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, for this statement. Not because she's wrong or anything. But it simply gives absolutely nothing in this colossal problem. That's why we won't vote for her. And I'm joining the Belarusian Committee's decision that we really need to make a fundamental decision on this issue. We're spoiled. We don't have a border on a large part. Today our army is demoralized. That's true, too. As a result, these issues need to be resolved globally, wisely, and forever.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u96	People's MP, Jojik. Ivan the Hare, again, please. Next will be the Other God’s Word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u97	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very delicate issue, a delicate issue of defence and a delicate issue of security, a delicate issue of foreign policy. Therefore, throwing such a document out for public discussion does not honor us. I would like a more fundamental conversation to take place at the level of ministries, at the level of government, at the level of committees. By finally appreciating all the threats that Ukraine faces today in the area of security and finding ways to address these threats. And then come up with a proposal that's agreed upon, which is shared by both the opposition and shared by the majority, and then we can only have a serious document. We need to deal realisticly with such questions. The thing is, we have to understand with you that the biggest gap in our security is military security, not economic or environmental, or information or something else. These are our Armed Forces of Ukraine. What have we done for the last 15 or 18 years in relation to our Ukrainian Armed Forces? We didn't give proper funding, we reduced the share of GDP to 0.7 percent. We didn't order weapons for our industry, we didn't actually create new jobs, we didn't start new development, and today we want someone to guarantee security. The first to guarantee safety, or we're not ourselves. To do this, the Ukrainian Armed Forces need to be viewed not only as a military factor but as an economic security, information security, environmental security, or the principle of security. That's what's around the world today, because today you can't have a strategic relationship with one country in an economic area, and with another country you can't develop strategic relations in an area of military security, which is not in the world today. Either we go to one of the centers of politics, or we go to another center of politics. So my proposal is that we need to focus today on understanding the current security challenges for Ukraine, and we need to have discussions about ways, or mechanisms, to address these threats to Ukraine. And first of all, we need to focus on building up the Ukrainian Armed Forces. If we don't figure it out, we're not going to spend enough money for this year and for the years to come to buy new weapons, all of these conversations are not worth it. That is why it is important not to accept this decree today but to start a real job and opposition, and most of it to guarantee Ukraine’s security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u98	Another Godsister, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! A venerable Ukrainian community! Most of the voters in these elections voted in favour of a strong Ukraine. Voting either for one candidate or for another, they voted in favour of Ukraine, which would be determined by its identity. And today, burying our heads in the sand like an ostrich and pretending again that somehow we are protected against nuclear danger is an ostrich policy that is not worthy of the Ukrainian community, Ukrainian society and Ukrainian state. This decision must certainly be voted on as a basis today, to add to its work and, of course, to force Ukraine's executive power and the new President to pay the highest attention to the issue of obtaining Ukraine's real nuclear security assurances. I would like to remind you that when the Budapest Memorandum was signed, the signatory countries made a promise to sign a multilateral legal agreement that guaranteed all aspects of nuclear security. By the way, both China and France later joined this memorandum, but once again they did not provide any real guarantees. For Ukraine today, the situation in which we are today, when we have no real legal basis, is very dangerous to require the signing countries of the Budapest Memorandum to provide security assurances. So I ask everyone today to take a state position, to vote this decision on the basis, to add all the deputies from all the factions to the work and, of course, to vote on this decision, which will force the executive power of Ukraine to ensure that this path is promoted by the country's nuclear security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u100	National deputy of Vyezovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u101	Vladimir Viezowski, “Our Ukraine”. Please pass the word to my colleague, Andrew Parbia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u102	Time is running out, dear colleagues, but we're talking about all the bills on a full-time basis. You're still on, Shershun, but time's up. Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u103	Paribay Andrey, “For Ukraine! ” Ladies and gentlemen, today we can speak with confidence that in due course the fact that Ukraine got rid of nuclear status without any hope of guarantee was one of the most profound errors of Ukrainian power, and of the Ukrainian state. And as we can see, all these guarantees that have been given by various entities do not have the strength that international agreements should have. I want to remind you that it has been the Russian Federation, which has been one of the guarantors of the security of Ukraine and the security of the existence of the Ukrainian State for many years, that has, in fact, applied both economic and political and information pressure on Ukraine for the purpose of influencing the internal and external policies of the Ukrainian State. Of course, today we can claim that the documents that have been signed by different nations are not working to the full. And one of the signing subjects, the Russian Federation, is a rude, systematic and persistent breach of this agreement. At the same time, when it comes to signing any new documents, it's too important and important to be able to solve it on a political level. I am convinced that similar documents, which should provide for a new international agreement, should be prepared by experts from the International Committee. The ministries of foreign affairs should be professionally prepared and taking into account all the relations Ukraine has with other states. I think this document, which we are looking at today, is rather a political document than a document that can have international and political weight. And that's why I'm convinced that we need to move away from politicizing this process. It's a very important thing -- the security of our state, and it needs non-political statements and manifestations, and it needs a very careful and thorough policy of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as ultimately our Ministry of Defense. We have to realize that only when Ukraine becomes a strong and powerful state will we force our neighbours to count with us and not to guarantee our security, but to respect our security, and to understand that Ukraine is this state that can give itself to any external aggressors ever since. I am convinced that today the most important thing for Ukraine is to join the most effective system of international security, the North Atlantic Union. So I'm proposing a political question either to move or to take it off the table. We won't be supporting this issue in the hall today. We believe that it should be prepared at a thorough professional level and should not be a manifesto, but rather a real and important action by the Ukrainian State as a whole, not just the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u104	Dear national MPs, distinguished national MPs! Consideration of the matter, honourable national MPs, consideration of the matter completed [[B in m in s a l i.]] In accordance with the Rules, the reporter is entitled to a closing word. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue has been discussed on a full-time basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Anatoliyovich, you're in, Shershun's in writing, Crnwell, but time's up, well, time's up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Summary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am very grateful to you for having considered the bill so seriously. Once again, I would like to remind my colleagues that the statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was chosen for closed party lists, is a political document. It's different. If I'm correct, I think it's a statement that it's a "literary supplement," why does it excite you so much, as it is a "literary supplement"? So, let's all see the bills as a "literary supplement" and in a regime like this, as we have discussed this draft regulation today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u106	Dear national MPs, distinguished national MPs! The question has been discussed, let me summarize. Regrettably, the same idea of finding additional security assurances for Ukraine has turned into political talk, and it is a pity. And it does not rule out, Reverend John Alexanderovich, one question of the other about the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We've divided into NATO supporters and opponents, and at this point we've been looking at this issue. And I'm going to remind you, dear colleagues, and it's obviously true that a lot of the speakers didn't read the Budapest Memorandum at all, no offense, but that's true. Because if we read the Budapest Memorandum, we realized that the consultation mechanism never worked. Once a problem arose with Tuzla, and then President Kuchma made a request for consultations, events around Tuzla were halted. For the second time, there was a problem of consultation in connection with the problem of gas relations with Russia in 2006. There were then letters prepared for the guaranteeing countries to hold consultations, but they were not sent because supporters of Ukraine's accession to NATO blocked the dispatch of these letters because they understood that there was a reliable mechanism if it worked. So we would probably have to think, dear colleagues, here to look for additional guarantees. The idea itself, according to everything, is the right one – additional guarantees of the security of the state. And we will be treated as we deserve. Dear colleagues, we have received a great deal of encouragement to the United States Congress in fulfilling its obligations to finance the use of rocket fuel. Remember? Copy that. We didn't even get an answer. Well, we didn't get an answer! Therefore, if we are not consolidated in this matter, fellow believers, we are likely to be treated that way. Various suggestions were made: Postponing consideration of the matter. You can put it down. Put your life on hold. Committee proposal: return to work. So in accordance with the Rules, I'm going to put to the vote the first proposal for acceptance as a basis, and if there's any good will, then let's work on bringing this document back to normal. No, we'll just take it off the table. Do you understand the offer? It's regulated. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the application of Ukraine’s Supreme Council for nuclear-free status. Registration number 5296. [[11:43:22]] For 338 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 168, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 116, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 5, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 20, non-fractional – 2. No, we agreed, dear colleagues, on the basis that there were objections and there are moments. Dear colleagues, please work hard. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, there were objections. Dear colleagues, I can't. All of it. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the second reading. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act "On Allowance in Economic Activities". [[Registration number 1362]] The reporter is Kseniya Mikhailna Lapina, deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u107	Thank you, Your Honor. The bill was adopted on the basis of the Supreme Council on April 8, 2008. The purpose of the bill is to further improve the procedures for the transfer of documents of a permissive nature and to bring them to European standards. For the purpose of drafting the bill, a working group was set up, 106 amendments were processed, the majority of them were taken into account, and only 12 amendments were rejected. It should be noted that on June 3, 2009, the committee approved a comparative table for the second reading. Over the six months that have passed, while this bill has been waiting for its turn, some laws have changed. So I propose that two amendments be made to the purely editorial nature of the changes that have already been made to a number of laws by the vote. I'm going to read these amendments, and I'm going to read: In Part Four of Article 7, the entry in Table 108 replace the words “copy of a State registration certificate of a host subject” with the words “exclusion from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Persons of Entrepreneurs”. This is because you and I have changed the Law on State Registration. In the “Final Positions” of the bill, the position in table 127 of the words and figures “January 1, 2010” should be replaced by the words “April 1, 2010”. It's because we understand that it's been the tenth year, and now we're just looking at this bill. Please support the committee’s decision, namely, to approve the amendments as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, are we going to make amends? No objections? 1 amendment rejected. National deputy Krutz, are you insisting on this? No, it's not. Xenia Leapina, 11th Amendment Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u109	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u110	27 of your correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u111	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u112	32nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u113	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u114	So you're not on your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u115	I don't insist on my amendments, because we've done it properly, they're edited in one way or another, and I support the text that we, as a committee and as a working group, have put together for approval as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u116	Sergey Rybuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u117	Thank you. Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. How did the King’s amendment take place? What does it count? When we first adopted this law, it did not exist at all, and it does not belong to this law. And we have already eliminated 381 deputies, not allowing them to withdraw mandatory certification of imported agricultural products and foodstuffs for the state. Today, ma'am.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u118	What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u119	101st, 102nd and 103rd. It says “vote, ” page 39. We can't account for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, one minute, let's get to this amendment and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u121	So we skipped it already, I'm worried about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u122	No, it's not. We're going through the repairs. 102nd, you said we'd come and if you insist, we'll put her to the vote, no problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u123	Of course, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u124	Now, let's move on. Yeah, 39th, Xenia Lapin doesn't insist. Okay, 46th. Don't insist. Round, 61st. Don't insist. Amendment, Xenia Lapina, 72. Don't insist. Xenia Lapina, 75th. Don't insist. 94th, you don't insist on correction. Let's move on. 97th. What's that? The 98th, did you insist? 101st, right? Let's go. 101st Amendment: Royal, Chechtev and Xenia Lapina. Written: “accounted for”. Please, Sergio Rizuka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u125	Thank you. I ask the people’s deputies to read this amendment carefully. And it can't be counted. As far as I know, even the committee. So in the first reading of the bill, this amendment did not exist at all. And it is already another attempt on the part of individual deputies to oppose the State’s compulsory certification of imported products, especially food. You don't have to explain what this is. I ask you to vote on this amendment in the direction of disregarding Amendment 101.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u126	Let me comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u127	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u128	Please note that before the first reading of such comments there was no way. The project itself is presented before the first reading. In fact, all the amendments were made until the second reading, and the committee considered them. I would like to point out that the amendment was made in the same way as Royal, Chechtov and Liapina. And it was taken into account by the committee and supported by the committee, because it's about clarifying the procedures available for a series of laws, especially what you're concerned about, is the Insurance Act, I take it, the sanitary and epidemiological well-being of the population, right? And I want to draw attention to this: that's what this is about. And now for the certification of agricultural products. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the Act on the Safety and Quality of Food has long since abolished certification, including import products. And today there is, to put it mildly, peroxide. I want to point out that this product is under strict control: either sanitary, or veterinary, depending on the origin of this product, which is consistent with all international standards, including that of the Supreme Council, when we ratified the World Trade Organization Agreements, that's where I also figure it. So food is going through sanitation, or veterinary control. And the corresponding way that it's all reflected here is to specify how permission is obtained, on what grounds it might be invisible, and the procedure is clarified. In general, this whole procedural law and this amendment is purely procedural.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, one minute. Sergey Mikolayovich, you insist on taking it off. put to the vote the whole amendment or the second paragraph where it refers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u130	Because it's a big amendment, it applies to different aspects.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u131	So what I'm saying is, change to the Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare Act. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u132	We demand that I personally and the faction, remove the whole amendment, not count. What the committee considered was not to support the committee's decision, not to consider this amendment, the 101st complete, completely. It is not the subject of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u133	Yeah, 101, 102 and 103.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u134	So I'm going to put the vote on support for this amendment, if it's not supported, then it's going to be removed. But I was just asking, is this about changing one law there, or is this whole amendment? Completely? I see. Ladies and gentlemen, I vote in favour of Amendments 101, 102 and 103.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u135	Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u136	About Support [[11:53:16]] For-57 The amendment is deleted by 101, 102 and 103. Yes, all other amendments have been voted on with details about the date of entry into force of the law, as stated by Xenius Leapina. Now, Your Honor, before the vote of Yuri Carmazin, please. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u137	Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin. I'd like that. I'm reading the bill now, because it's already been introduced several times, it's out. Correction. I have a question for the 98th and 99th, where it's settled. monitoring compliance with the requirements of legislation on the issue of documents of a permissive nature is taken into account and fully recast. We did not have it in this law, that is, in the first reading we did not formulate it that way. Now we've gone beyond what we've planned, we've gone beyond what we've already passed in the laws that we later passed. Xenia Mikhailna, we later adopted this in other laws, other laws. So I'd like to make a 98-99 amendment to approve it. If the Supreme Council supports, well, so be it. I think it's a waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u138	Please, Kseniya Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u139	Well, we supported the amendment of Royal and Chechtov on the committee because we believe that it merely complements the Law “On State Control. ” Perhaps the honourable Mr. Yuri means that the vast majority of the control rules included in another law are in the Law “On State Control. ” There are, however, features of control over the procedure for issuing documents of a permissive nature. After examining the situation on the committee, we supported it. But I can say that even if it's not counted, it won't destroy the body of the law, in fact, it's an additional amendment. In our view, it improves the situation, but it does not destroy the body of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, vote in favour of Amendments 98 and 99. The authors of the amendment: Royal I Chechetov. [[11:55:52]] For-126 Correction deleted. Thus, honourable colleagues, all other amendments are considered. Xenia Mikhailn, can we put it now?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u141	To put to the vote as a whole because the unaccounted for amendments do not destroy the whole body of the bill on the permissive system. They had an extra character. Changes in other laws or the order of control were made. I mean, without any problems, we can vote on this law as a whole. Yet, I think that the Supreme Council will still return to making changes to special laws, since these are related things. Now the Supreme Council has rejected it. This is, in my opinion, a purely political decision. Yet it does not undermine the logic of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, registration number 1362 is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:57:11]] For 215 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the return to the bill, registration number 1362. On the return to the consideration of Bill 1362. The vote is coming. [[11:57:37]] For 257 They went back to reviewing the bill. I am betting on the adoption vote, the second reading adoption proposal and, as a whole, the bill of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. May I remind you again, registration number 1362, please vote. [[11:58:11]] For 282 The law is passed. The factions, please. Region Party – 158, “Timoshenko Block” – 56, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 48, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 19, non-fractional – 1. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u143	In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc of 10 February 2010, I inform that the deputy heads of the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko are elected national deputies: the Ukraine of Soboljeva Sergija Vladislavovic and the school of Andrija Vasilovic. [[political parties “The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland”, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party, Reform and Order”]] Then I ask the secretariat to see who else are the deputies and to see that this is in line with the Rules. This is the secretariat that prepared me, and I've made this announcement, obviously, there's nothing wrong with it. Please specify and list the deputy heads of the faction. Dear National Deputies! A draft Law on the purchase of goods, jobs, and services at public expense is being announced for consideration. Registration number 2263-1. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Economic Policy Committee, Osika Sergey Grigorovich. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u144	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In fact, we're still finishing the amendment procedure, we're stopping at Amendment 330-331 of the Final Regulations. And at the same time, as a committee, this was considered at that meeting, we ask that we go back to 133 amendments, given that this amendment contains a very important position on the commission, an accusation that allows for some independent expertise and, together with the right of prosecution, it gives us the right to at least some way of dealing with these issues that are still pending purchases. I want to remind you that this idea was introduced into the working group by the World Bank of USAD, and this was discussed and I'm asking you to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u145	Dear people's deputies, we need to go to the repairs, right? Let's go over the repairs. Alexander Grigorovich tells me we've stopped for 330 corrections, right? You have to go with 330 corrections, and then if you have any doubts, then we'll go back to them. 330th Amendment. Counted. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Let's move on. 331st. Counted. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Now all the adjustments are included. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u146	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected colleagues, indeed, the law is very strong, very large, it is already a second reading procedure and should be given due respect to the working group that has finalized it. She tried to remove all the contradictions and those that had been put in place, one could say, the algorithms that could have worked against the State against the country. As far as the law is concerned, despite 330 amendments, this is exactly what Sergei Grigoryevich said, there is one fundamental one, it's like the axis, the axis, 133th, which was not voted on, about the complaint. Please therefore revert to this amendment. If we do not vote on the 133 amendment now, we will not find 226 votes at least, no law is necessary. The law can be thrown into an urn, and all other amendments to the law are not necessary. Please therefore revert to the 133 amendment and put it to the vote. In the case of positive, the law should be passed as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u147	So this is about confirming 133 amendments that are considered by the committee, yes. For this matter, please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u148	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the 133rd amendment was voted, as citizens of Ukraine remember, by the new year, December 3, five times, and the Supreme Council did not support it. You don't need to rape the Supreme Council. And there's a colleague from the Party of the Regions who said openly and directly that they wanted to, they want this amendment. What does that correction say? For the Azarov Committee to manage these tender purchases. That's it. That's the whole salt of this amendment, and the cover that these experts put in the Ministry of Economics, there's someone else there, all of it out of the water of the eyes. So Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the Supreme Council, returned to this amendment five times — she did not support it. Therefore, there is no need to reconsider today. The Supreme Council on this subject has been identified repeatedly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u149	Yes, please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u150	I would say so, Oleg Valeriyovich is a well-known expert in all matters relating to the country's life. And there's no doubt, so to speak. But I would like to point out, as a respected critic, what we have today. Today, individually, I would say, MPs insist on preserving the absence of any law in this area that covers, in fact, the life of the country from center to the last village. Moreover, that government decree that was adopted two years ago does not work today. It is effectively overturned by a decision of the Constitutional Court. The country is full of chastity and chaos in part of its purchases. And I want to remind you that this is about budgetary and government spending. The third point is that the critic did not read the law or read the amendment because management cannot be spoken of. The commission consists of experts recommended on a competitive basis by the Ministry of Economics. And then it's considered by two committees by two thirds of the votes, and it's perfectly normal, and it's perfectly normal in the council that today is -- it's a compromise and there's got to be a compromise in politics. If you have a very interesting story, I'll let you know. At least five volumes of the World Bank's participation in this issue, the European Business Association and so on and so forth. And so those who want to preserve chaos, lawlessness, corruption, and so on, don't vote, but to leave the country without law for the third year is simply approachable and politically and from a civil point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u151	Now, one second. Valentin Landik, one second. That's for 133, right? Okay. Valentin Landik, please. After that. I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to see you. This is all a departure from the common position. Here we all say, we speak, we must support the national producer, we must give him preferences, he must participate. It's starting to get blurry, we're leaving, we're not, they want to check it out. What do you want me to do? Where's the native manufacturer? He's not around. They're keeping him safe. Just as they were importers, they remain importers, and they extend the law. As the International Monetary Fund has said, this law must be adopted, and they have all agreed to this law. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask, do you understand? - or transfer it to second reading, that's another second reading, I say, there is no domestic producer in this law, unfortunately, including in this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, yes, please, the committee, I can just say that if the Supreme Council doesn't accept it, then we're going to put the second on the proposal for a second one, here's the logic. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, one minute, committee, is there anything to tell you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u154	Yeah. Valentina Ivanovich, reverend, there is a clear provision in this law that the government can determine by any purchase of preferences for a national producer. Sure. And that's his right, and that's actually normal, so that's the question in this law solved. And as for the right of the bidder to appeal, this is your right -- the right of the manufacturer, where you can be easy today if you haven't given up or something else. What did they do, just throw it away, and where would you go? You'll go to the district court to consider this matter in a year. A year later, and the money has been written down, written down, spent, and even if you win as if you were the manufacturer of this court, the train has already left. That's why there's a clear little administrative procedure for dealing with independent experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u155	Sergey Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u156	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Let me have a couple of these. Thesis one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u157	As amended, go ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u158	We went to the World Bank. The World Bank also responded to Tuckenka's commission, and he told me that what the reporter is saying is not true. The World Bank warns of the inability of political officials to be present in the prosecution body. He warns that the prosecution body should only suspend the auctions and not cancel them. More than that, look at the pearls in the End positions, where it says that the two committees agree on some experts there by two-thirds of the total. An exception to the Supreme Council Committees Act. What are these nouvelles? Is that what the Constitution says?Oh, my God! Therefore, this bill should be passed on to the second reading. We interrupted the procedure for this reading, and we couldn't issue an appeal after the procedure was interrupted. And actually, I'd like to make a commission, because the economic committee is only pulling on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Now let's define the amendments first, and then let's express our motivation before the vote. So if there's an amendment, Olga Bodnar, please, and then Oleg Lazko. Let's do some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u160	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'm just about to make this right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u161	It's 133.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, please pay attention today to the decision of the Constitutional Court that clearly addresses all of you. Since 2008, the issue of purchasing is not regulated. I mean, we've been with you so long that Ukraine is governed by what, I don't know, is a very important serious issue. The Constitutional Court has asked us to prepare a bill to regulate this. If none of you have spoken, and I doubt it. I have tried, tried, and tried to appeal to our ministries of honor to the effect that those subjects who have even won these contests can then participate in these contests because they are being thrown out of there artificially. They turn to the courts, say Osik’s colleague correctly, turn to the courts, and in the courts, they are on time for a very long time. And that's why I support this amendment, and I need to make it, because it's a college body in which.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u163	Please finish, Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u164	in which the control function and the Supreme Council, 7 people from the ministries and 7 people from the Supreme Council, I support that function.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u165	Oleg Lazko on the line 133 repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u166	I would like to ask the following question of the distinguished Sergey Grigorovich Osik, a great expert in tender procedures. Dear Sergey Grigorovich, you said about the budget, which is what you just said under the transcript. I have a question: what does the Azarov Committee on Finance and Banking have to do with the budget? And the Azarov Committee, which approves those experts you spoke of. Next. When you talk about the absence of law, yes, it's a big problem that there's no law and it needs to be that law, but not that law that will once again lead to corruption in tender procedures. And these people who are protecting this law today, the citizens of the country should know clearly that we will come back to the idea that children's gardens and homes of disabled people and boarding schools will pay for air money for paying for what services they don't know. You can't vote on that. This law needs to be rereaded and thrown out of there all the corruption standards that are there. It's a shame to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your position and we will. It's a discussion, there can't be a discussion. Now I'm going to put the vote on the return to Amendment 133. We're not back, so we're voting without 133 amendments. They did not vote, so the law would be rejected or directed at rereading the second reading. Now we've turned everything into a plane of discussion. Everything, please, is still moving.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, in order not to delay your time, I will answer very briefly. In the last speech, there's a lot of words, emotions and, say, informational or Internet slogans. But it's not constructive. If critics want to, they could design their model and write something in two years. But the talk is that there is no need for anything to be blocked again, and let it be the way it will be, because it is for someone. So I encourage you to support the amendment and move on. And I remind you of the principle of Roman law: “Let the law be bad, but the law.” And let all the geniuses add their corrections to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u169	Thank you. It's propaganda. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote the proposal to return to the consideration of Amendment 133 on return. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:47:02]] For 232 We're back to the 133rd amendment. The factions, please. Region Party – 136, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 56, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 11, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 0, non-fractional – 2. Now, if you'll have your attention. Oleg Lazko, argument for amendment 133. Please. He insisted on her.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u170	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, on behalf of the faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko” we appeal to you to announce a recess. This question on our faction has not been considered. The faction has decided not to uphold this law. And if there are any new currents. Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, please gather the faction, let us discuss these matters on factions. It's corruption, what you're doing now. Do not submit to the government of Timoshenko, do not submit to our political power. It's this kind of corruption that we're losing the election and everything in the world. What are you doing? Stop. Why we have corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has returned to 133 amendments. I'm voting now. Attention, please. - to confirm amendment 133. Please be sure. Please be sure. [[12:48:47]] For 240 Amendment 133 counted. 240 national deputies voted in favour. The factions, please. Please, dear fellows. Region Party – 152, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 48, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 10, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 0, “Afterfractional” – 3. Honorable National MPs. Well, one minute! At the end of the day, clarification should be given as to the date of entry into force of the law. The project is scheduled for January 1. Clearly, this date cannot be. We obviously have to write down this rule: a month from the time the law takes effect, because we have to make changes to different types of acts. That's how the offer can be. There is a letter from the minister of the economy requesting that the law take effect on 1 February in connection with the need to prepare a number of regulations. Since it is February 11, we should probably write that from the moment it takes effect, but a month before it comes into force. Let's put it this way: before the faction vote, one minute at a time. Please, the faction. Please, Party of Regions. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u172	I can see that Oleg Lazko, taking advantage of Julia Vladimirovna's weakness, has already subjected himself to the Andrey Cosemykin faction and is in command, yes. But I think there are healthy heads out there who understand perfectly, but there's a time when there's a limit to corruption. So much money, so much was washed away through the purchases, through the laws that were in force on the other side. Come back, they didn't work for two years. It's not possible. - Tens of billions are broken. Let us therefore accept this law and all those who want to further stir up will, of course, not vote. And whoever wants to put order in the State and most of them in Parliament, I think they will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u173	Alexander Bondar, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u174	I have two questions, first, to the Party of Regions, to the faction. Your supervisor said he'd be knee-deep in iron to root out corruption. I don't understand your position right now, and why are you now adopting this law to be signed by President Yashchenko, not the President you are confident of? This is a very big question. Why not wait two weeks, send a new president to work on this law and sign it? I don’t understand this haste because there are so many questions, except for 133 articles. They need to be studied in detail, and this is a very big question for the voters who voted for your power. What are you doing now? You rape the Supreme Council, you violate the Rules, you violate all the rules that are possible, and you don't want your new president to sign this law, you take this disgrace. You're embarrassing Victor Andryovich Yushchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u175	Who's it gonna be? Who's going to be the BUT faction? Baby? Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u176	Oleg Lazko. "Julia Tymoshenko's Block." Dear citizens of Ukraine, I appeal to our constituents because it is hopeless to address these deputies in this room. Three more days ago last week, the Party of Regions promised you a fight against corruption when it came to power. Today, they feel that they have already reached that authority. And the first thing they started was not fighting corruption, but planting corruption in the tender sphere. And I'm very sorry that a lot of the members of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc are voting for these corrupt shadow schemes. I am very sorry to say that. And so it seems to me that if we are accountable to the country, to the people, we have to stop this corrupt scheme. Recall how for many years these boys, who run and pay money for these ballots, spent billions of money in their own pockets. So today we're returning these diagrams. And I want you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to publish this list for history. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u177	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, then Zarubinsky, and we will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u178	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Company's faction will vote in favour of this project. And I'd like to ask you, all those who have just spoken passionately, take two years of your speech. That's a first. Those who were in the government, you did criminal activity at all, because you were instructed by the Supreme Council to submit a law within a month to regulate those relations. You've been sabotaging for two years and you've been pounding your tongue for two years, and you've been saying everything that's got to do with putting on your pockets. Therefore, respected voters are fighting clans who use public money to enrich themselves, to enrich themselves irrevocably. There are hundreds of billions, virtually Ukrainian bracelets, and the percentages they receive because of manual control of 2-3-4 per cent. That's what we're talking about. The Company's faction would therefore support the normalization, i.e. the legislation that would regulate all these relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u179	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Well, in the Bible, the Scriptures correctly say: “And all things will be made manifest in secret.” Now it's a clear desire to use tender purchases for individual people, individual structures. And if you throw away rhetoric now, which is no more than rhetoric about fighting corruption, there's only one thing left: looking for subtle paths for corruption. The block of Lithuania for this bill has not voted and will not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u181	Honorable fellow workers! The discussion is over. Honorable fellow workers! All of it! In accordance with the Rules. I understand you all want to lead this process. Calm down, please. Yuri Bogdanovich, is this position there? Please report to Yuri Klukkowski. There was a problem with local elections. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, we have just passed the election, and local elections are approaching. Under the Elections Act, a single contractor is executed for the purposes of the election. And that's why. If the entire tender procedure is launched, no purchase will take place throughout the electoral process. However, the law that will now vote on the issue of procurement for the purposes of election committees is not excluded from the scope of this law. And that's why they're going to be extended the entire competition procedure. That means we're putting the election process in danger. I would very much like to address this with a proper understanding of the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u183	Sergey Osika, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u184	Your Honor, what you're saying is not true, because this law provides for different procedures, including procedure for one participant. So you create a problem where you don't have it at all. Read the text of the law, not just on the run. Thank you for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u185	Dear people's deputies, I can't go on forever, it's going on. The factions came from the factions. All of it. There was a replica. Please. I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds. Registration number 2263-1. Please determine how to vote. [[12:57:47]] For 245 The law is passed. The factions, please. Region Party – 156, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 50, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 10, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 0, non-fractional – 2. Dear National Deputies! Please, have a seat. You asked questions about the fact that I announced the decision of the Yulia Timoshenko faction regarding the deputy heads of the faction. I inform you that the deputy head of the faction is appointed from one to 15 national deputies. The deputy heads of the BUT faction are the national deputies: Kožemakin, Abdulin, Belarus, Hubsky, Fedorchuk, Tomenko, Portnov, Shustik. So there's no problem here. I made the right announcement. Dear colleagues! It is proposed that you take note of the draft Law on Amendments and Recognition in such a way that they have lost their validity, some Ukrainian legislation on the collective agricultural enterprise. [[second reading]] [[Registration number 2534]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Sergey Mikolayovich Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u186	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! For your consideration, the second reading is the draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Recognition of Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[on the collective agricultural industry]] This is 2534. The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers, and the purpose of the legislative act is to bring Ukraine's legislative acts into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Land Code and the Civil Codes of Ukraine. [[on collective enterprises]] It is also recognized that the Ukrainian Law on Collective Entrepreneurship has become invalid. Ten proposals were submitted to the second reading by the National Deputies, all proposals considered, seven of them counted, and three proposals rejected. The proposals of the national deputies of Karmazin, Krutz, Tkacha are included. With regard to the comments of the Chief Legal Authority, which considered the draft Ukrainian law prepared for the second reading, we can accept the comments and take into account the suggestions and make it a second reading. I'm the one who said what I was obliged to say on behalf of the committee, but if you're interested in my position as an experienced expert, I'll tell you that this bill is not on time at all. We're doing more damage, we can do harm to agricultural production if we accept it and better than we won't accept it, why? Today, Ukraine has nearly 900 large agricultural enterprises under collective ownership. But in our time, we made one mistake by confusing the notion of a collective form of production organization and a collective form of ownership. And these agricultural enterprises that exist today, they're on the basis of rations, they're on the basis of collective property, private property.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u187	Just a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a need to find out what the relationship is, please leave the session room, allow me to work. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, I ask once again to draw my attention to the rostrum and to the rapporteur, as this is a matter of principle. It would be better not to support this bill at all, to allow 900 companies to work, and when the time comes, we will subject both legislation and even the Constitution. Because you cannot claim to be dead and you cannot deny the existence of a working group. In principle, let the working groups resolve their own statutes, their rights, their obligations to existing legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, please let's restore the working atmosphere. Corrections that are not taken into account by Yuri Carmazin Microphone, Yuri Anatolyovich. Your 8th amendment, which has the right to live with the end of the line. Please, Your Honor, let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u190	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the law says the law reads that the law reads, the 8th amendment, effective January 1, 2009. I suggest you write, the law takes effect from the day you publish it, it's a normal practice. I don't understand why it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u191	It's not rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u192	Then please tell me if it has been counted and let's vote while this is a normal total amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I ask you to accept the amendment made by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin that the law takes effect on the day of publication. Is there no objection? It's technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u194	No, it's a technical question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u195	Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, your 9th and 10th revisions, microphone. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u196	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm looking at what's 9 on the right-hand side, and I'm looking at what's supposed to be counted. I'd like you to take a look, Sergey Mikhailovich. I propose that “the successors of collective enterprises reorganised to take effect by this law should be completed in accordance with the procedure established by law for the award of new rations in kind to former members of such enterprises”. It seems to me that it is now written in Preamble, and it says here that it is “refused”. Something's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u197	I said that your revisions are accounted for, and now I'm looking at that they probably didn't work on this page, they're all three accounted for by the National Deputy Carmazin. Thus, the amendments that have been made are taken into account. I'm sorry on behalf of the secretariat that you've received recent information from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u198	Thus, the honourable national deputies, the amendments taken into account, this is just a technical disagreement that has arisen. For reasons of vote. All the adjustments taken into account, no one insists? Now, for the reasons of the vote, please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u199	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues! I'd like you to listen to Sergei Mikolaiovich, who knows very well what he's talking about because he's dealing with this problem. In addition to that, I would like to say that you, as the people's advocates, may have received a collective appeal. For example, I came to the decision of the Mikolai District Council – to refer the MPs of the Mikolai District Council to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers and so on. And this reference, adopted at the 28th session of the Regional Council of the Fifth Council, states: “What we consider to be unapproachable is the adoption of the Law on Change and Recognition in such a way that they have lost the value of certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for a collective agricultural enterprise, taking into account the above-mentioned strong request to protect the constitutional rights of farmers to work and the free choice of farming on earth”. And once again, this is a collective address for the Mikolayovska Regional Council. And I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u200	Dear national MPs, distinguished national MPs! Please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Proposal for a second-reading committee, and generally as a bill of the Amendment and Recognition Act, some Ukrainian legislation on collective farming (registration number 2534). Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:06:34]] For-47 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a vote on sending the draft law, registration number 2534, to read it again. Please identify yourself. [[13:06:58]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u201	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a protocol of clarification on the previous law, because we have here. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, well, please, this is a technical moment. Ivan Aleksandrovich, don't bother. Once again, the point is that the law takes effect 30 days from publication. So here's the technical adjustment that I was talking about, and I'm confirming it again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, respectable colleagues, I said in the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, it was written that “the law takes effect from January 1st” such as. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, my position on this law is familiar to you, and you'd better get rid of the factions as to how to vote. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the activities of nonprofit organizations is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4563]] Another reading. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Sergey Mikolayovich Ribuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u204	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, your second reading is being reviewed by the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on non-profit organizations. Number 4563. We have repeatedly talked in this room about the fact that the development of agricultural cooperatives is an important part of the expansion of the agricultural sector. This is also urged by the authorities. political forces in Parliament. Regrettably, today, the formation of a cooperative movement in the agricultural sector is restrained, first and foremost, and unfortunately, by the imperfections of legislation and the lack of State support for the development of agricultural service cooperation. A particularly problematic and uncoordinated issue at the legislative level is the granting of the status of a legal person as a non-profit organization to the farmers. This has led to a halt in the number of agricultural cooperatives in the country, which is a very important component of the agricultural market infrastructure. As a result, Ukraine has virtually stopped the process of forming service cooperatives, and in some regions even those that were created have stopped their activities. At the same time, individual agricultural farmers are also unable to adapt themselves to the demands of the WTO, the agricultural market, and the production of high - quality products. So what happens is that we have an agricultural producer, and he's looking for, he's getting raw materials for production, and he's making direct production, he's looking for a market, he's selling himself, and he's not doing it, and he's barely doing it, and we're basically doing 3.5 million peasants doing business, or maybe they should be active. So for the second time read by the People's Chamber of Jury, there were seven proposals that virtually eliminated all of the contradictions in the bill that we discussed last time, and I reported it to you. All proposals are considered and accepted. And the Chief Legal Authority also agrees with the general conclusion adopted, with the adoption of the bill in re-second reading as a law as a whole. With regard to the minor observations of the General Legal Authority, they can be accepted and taken into account. So we now have all the legal grounds for reference taken into account to adopt this bill as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u205	People's MP Seminog, amendment number one. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 2. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u206	Excuse me. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the language is that I will ask the second amendment and the seventh amendment. So by the second amendment, I would like to write it in this line. After paragraph eight. the paragraph “in” should be left in good order and the paragraph “e” should be supplemented by the words “agricultural service cooperatives established to provide services exclusively to members of service cooperatives” after the words “defined by law”. And in the seventh amendment, I propose, in the Agricultural Cooperation Act, paragraph five of Article 1, to read: “A farm cooperative is not a profitable organization created by natural persons and agricultural producers to provide services exclusively to members of a service cooperative with the aim of promoting their agricultural activities.” [[definition]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u207	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u208	Here's the game of words, there's no changing the point. We have the Legal Department, I think, agreed and reconciled us here. And let's listen to the conclusions of the Legal Authority, and it's all going to be in place. These are just some terminology issues that don't change the substance of the question or the bill as a whole. I don't see the subject here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u209	Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on voting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u210	I basically agree. I just think it would be better to define it, but if a colleague of Ribub, who is an unreserved authority in agriculture, insists on it, I agree, because I think he doesn't want bad for both the village and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we only have one moment - the final position on the validity of the law. Please take the seat of the committee. Because it says here: January 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u212	We've taken this amendment into account, and I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u213	Since the publication?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u214	There is no objection, of course. We already have one today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u215	Since the publication, January 1st has passed. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u216	That's a good suggestion, because it makes sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. A second reading proposal is put to the vote and, as a whole, a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the activities of non-profit organizations. [[Registration number 4563]] Please vote. Well, we've been talking about, uh, respectable colleagues, non-profit organizations, corporates, we've passed laws on a number of occasions. [[13:14:28]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on re-reading. Well, what's there to read again, dear fellows. [[13:14:56]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I'm asking you to extend your work. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Animals against Cruel Conduct is being announced for consideration. [[on the clarification of norms and terms]] [[Registration number 1264]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Ivan Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u218	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing to your attention a bill on amendments to the Animal Protection Against Cruelty Act, prepared by the Committee for Second Reading. The bill is designed to address the problems we face in the community in connection with keeping pets and regulating their numbers. Its acceptance will contribute to the conscious attitude of citizens into existing problems and is called upon to reduce existing social tensions in the area of protection and use of domestic and other animals in Ukrainian communities. The project received 40 amendments, not including 5. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and in general. The project is agreed upon without notice by the Chief Legal Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, no objections, no insistence on amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u220	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think in this situation, I think that none of the authors -- because we worked with the authors of the amendments -- would object, they could be voted on immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u221	Honourable National Deputies are put to the vote by the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, the bill of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct. [[on the clarification of norms and terms]] [[Registration number 1264]] Please vote. [[13:17:15]] For 259. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Water Code. [[Registration number 2634]] At the same time, the chairman of the committee, in fact, asked the committee to postpone consideration of the bill in view of the need to clarify a number of provisions of the bill that might conflict with valid legislation. What is the opinion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Please, John the Rabbit. Then Roman Tkac.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u222	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I don't think we need to postpone this bill today. Moreover, we need to accept it urgently. I realize that the real motives of those who want to undermine the adoption of changes to the Water Code are to tear down today's river, the reservoir, if you want, even the mountains into private property, that's the real motive. So let's not spin here, people's deputies, but to tell you the truth, without adopting the changes to the Water Code, we're not going to be in line with the use of water. We will not have water as the main resource of the 21st century in its proper condition. That's why I don't understand where these proposals came from. There is no real motive for delaying. One motive: stealing water today. They've already stolen the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, then I will put to the vote because the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. Since the Supreme Council of Ukraine, i.e. the Conciliation Council, has set a meeting schedule, there is a denial of the National Deputies, I will put it to a vote: who is in favour of supporting the proposal by the Committee to postpone the consideration of the bill, registration number 2634. [[13:19:30.]] For 218. The decision is not supported. The decision is not supported. Please report. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, let's go back to the question of delaying the bill, registration number 2634. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:20:04]] For 276 We're back on the subject. And now I'm putting to the vote a motion to postpone the consideration of the draft Law, registration number 2634. Please vote. [[13:20:29]] For 275 The question has been resolved positively with regard to the transposition of the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] For next plenary week. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Roman Tchac.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u224	Roman Tkac, group “For Ukraine!” I am grateful that the Supreme Council has made a wise decision. I'm the only one who's addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, what exactly did we have to deal with? There are, in fact, several provisions that do not correspond to the Earth’s Codex. And I'd like you to assign protocol to this bill to our agrarian committee, because we didn't look at it, we just looked at it at the Committee on Ecology. There is an inadequacy of the Water and Earth Codex. Please give me an assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u225	Dear National Deputies! When the bill is adopted, each committee and every national MP have the right to consider and make their amendments. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Topographical Geodetics and Cartographic Activities is being announced for consideration, second reading. [[Registration number 3621]] The rapporteur is the Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Sergey Mikolayovich Glazunov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u226	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the second reading introduces the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Topographical Geodetics and Potatoography, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill aims to improve legislation in the field of topographical and cartographic activities, the development of state geodetic networks and the state mapping system, the provision of state and other needs for geodetic and cartographic production, the application of modern geodetic systems for geo-spatial data and geo-information systems, satellite methods for determining coordinates, etc. When the bill was drafted for second reading, comments and suggestions were considered and taken into account by national deputies, entities of the law of the legislative initiative. There are 15 substantial suggestions, all taken into account in whole or in part, or in editorial terms. The proposals made by the people's deputies to the bill allowed, inter alia, to improve the existing terminology base and introduce a number of new terms: geodetics, cartographic monitoring, cartographic geodetics, topographical and cartographic activities, etc. More specifically, define the powers of executives, determine the principles of formation and activity, the manner in which the right to produce a cartographic geodetic fund of Ukraine is exercised, complement the list of objects of cartographic geodetic activity. In particular, Ukraine’s maritime economic zone has been included in this list. The topographical geodetic and cartographic work includes cadastral photographs and maps. Works are provided with city documentation, planning of territories, and so forth. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster notes that the bill will contribute to the improvement of Ukrainian legislation. It was decided to introduce a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Topographical Geodetics and Cartographic Activities for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption in a second reading and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, all the amendments have been taken into account. There is no chief legal authority to comment on the bill. So there is every reason to put this document to the vote. I propose to the adoption committee a second reading and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Topographic Geodetics and Cartographic Activities, registration number 3621. Please vote. [[13:24:57]] For 281 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the formation of statutory capitals of agricultural societies]] Registration number 2639. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy's subcommittee, Yuri Mikolayovich. It's a second reading again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, distinguished presiding officer! I would like to draw your attention to Bill 2639, which is purely technical and eliminates the contradictions between the two laws of Ukraine. One of them is the Ukrainian Economic Code, the second is the law that we passed last year “On first-line measures to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis and to amend some of Ukraine’s legislative acts”. The essence is as follows, under the Ukrainian Economic Code, funding for contributions to the statutory funds of banks is prohibited from the budget. And by the law we passed during the crisis, we allowed such contributions to the statutory funds of the banks, which was done by the Government at that time of crisis. The bill before you, there are amendments that have not been taken into account by the committees, the Committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u229	Dear National Deputies! Let's do some repairs. These are not the amendments of the two Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, the microphone of Yuri Anatoliyovich, do you insist on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u230	No, I don't insist. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u231	Oh, no? Then the honourable colleagues have every reason to put to the vote a decision of the committee, namely, on the adoption of a second reading and generally, as a law, a bill amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine regarding the formation of statutory capitals of agricultural societies. [[Registration number 2639]] Please vote. [[13:27:17]] For 281 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Free Activities in the Use of Nuclear Energy is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2324]] The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Sergey Volodymyrovich Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u232	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear Chairman! In 18.03.2009, on our first reading, we passed a law amending the Law on Free Activities in the Use of Nuclear Energy. What is involved in making changes to the law? The point is that in recent years there has been a great deal of inconsistencies and editorial disagreements with another set of existing legislation that needs to be changed to the law in force. I want to say that the bill has been considered not only by the profiling committee but also by the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Budget and Environmental Policy, the Chernobyl disaster. During the second reading, 59 proposals were considered by the national MPs, and I thank all colleagues who joined this legislation, of which 53 were included, six were rejected for motivated reasons. The bill received a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and was unanimously supported by a profile committee. In this regard, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft law modifying the scope of activities for the use of nuclear energy on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u233	Let's do some repairs. 6th Amendment. Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u234	Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to put it this way. The subject of activities in the field of nuclear energy use, the subject of activity, is registered in the established order by a legal person, the President, an enterprise, an institution or organization of any form of management that pursues or has declared its intention to carry out activities in the field of the use of nuclear energy, on which the law establishes the requirements of compulsory licensing, certification or registration and licensing and carries out activities using ionizing radiation sources. So I don't understand why in this case we rejected the amendment. If you can explain, maybe you can convince me, or maybe I can convince you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u235	There's no problem. The point is, the person who's registered in the right order, I'm stressing, that's the resident. It can't be a resident who's registered in the proper order. This is a completely legal observation of the administrations that we just supported, that is, there is no contradiction. I emphasize that a person who is registered by law is a resident. They become a resident if they are registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u236	Registered if he is, he is the subject of the law of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u237	Dear National Deputies! Vote number six, Yuri Karmazin. Vote. [[13:31:01]] For-75 Correction not supported. Seventh Amendment, Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u238	Yuri Carmazin. Dear friends! In vain, you did not think that a resident might be registered in the proper order, and there was a danger. So I wanted to tell you, I don't understand why it's not quite right that you've obviously now oriented the hall into not supporting this amendment. But thank you all for your support, because you seem to understand. Maybe you'd like to come back, I just want to improve the bill -- there's no other purpose. In the first article, it is suggested that the terms “licensing” and “cancellation” should be added, and I also want to understand why this amendment is being rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u239	The point is that the terms “licensing” and “cancellation” are clearly disclosed. These are terms common both in the Civil Code and in other laws. We don't see the need to duplicate the definitions that we already have.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u240	Amendment number seven shall be put to the vote. The vote is off, the author withdraws his amendment. Amendment 11, Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u241	The 11th amendment refers to an article in the sixth article on “the specificity of the introduction of the permissive sphere into activities, in the field of the use of nuclear energy. It is proposed that the fifth part of two articles 6 should be drafted as follows: “Requiremental certification of sources of ionizing radiation, elements important for the safety of nuclear installations, storage packages, transport of ionizing radiation sources and transport packages for the transport of nuclear materials. Dear friends, I don't understand why we're narrowing it down, narrowing it down now in law. All these things must be certified and quality guaranteed, we must be sure of everything. This improves the law. So agree with me and tell me what to take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u242	I, Mr. Carmazin, want to pay attention to Amendment 11, and I want to pay attention to Amendment 16, 17. In fact, we have the law, the law is about allowing, allowing activities in the field of the use of nuclear energy. These norms that you're introducing into this law are essentially not, in fact, a practical duplication of the law's rules of conformity. That is, in fact, we make the rules of another law in force, what you wrote, which is still required to comply with the Law on Confirmation of Conformity.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u243	Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u244	Yuri Carmazin. I'd like you to look at the left column of sub-paragraph 51, which is exactly what the 5th paragraph says, right now, it says, "mandatory certification in the field of nuclear energy use." And I'm adding that it consists of the origins of ionizing radiation, the elements that are important for safety, the packages, and everything else -- I'm deciphering that we're in this law right now, which is the subject of this law, I'm deciphering. So it's not about another law, it's about deciphering what was adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u245	The norm that you introduce is mandatory and so, according to other laws, including the Law on Confirmation of Conformity, you understand. Well, it's a duplication of the action.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u246	Amendment 11 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:35:23]] For-56 Correction not supported. Correction. Then, in fact, the matter loses its meaning to Amendments 16 and 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u247	It's the same standard that's practical.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u248	Then let's move on. And the amendment by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin 27 is also not supported, as is the 11th amendment. All other amendments are included. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u249	The committee requests that the bill be supported in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u250	Dear National Deputies! Yes. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u251	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! So it wasn't like we had the People's Deputies Election Act when we took the holes in the law and then everyone realized that Carmazin was right, only four months later. I want to hear Amendment 27, and then you do what you want. The time will come and you will see that you are wrong. So, article 10 I propose to write in this paper: “In the field of the use of nuclear energy, certification in the order established by legislation is subject to: sources of ionizing radiation, packages to store their disposal of radioactive waste, transport packages for the transport of radioactive materials, essential elements for the safety of nuclear installations.” This is what I've been comparing with the greatest lights in this area, which say that we have a threat, including the threat that comes from these elements. If we don't want to, we don't realize, then let's be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u252	Well, thank God, I have a clean conscience too, because according to the legislation in force in the field of nuclear energy, all of this is subject to mandatory, mandatory certification.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, since the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support the 11th amendment, Yuri Anatoliyovich, this amendment cannot now be put to the vote. Because it had to be defined first, and after you're done, you'd still be able to figure it out. But since you insist, I am voting on Amendment 27 of Yuri Karmazin. [[13:38:03]] For-103 Correction not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Free Activities in the Use of Nuclear Energy. [[Registration number 2324]] Please vote [[13:38:42]] For 288 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we continue our morning session for 15 minutes to complete the second reading of the bill. A draft Act amending article 41 of the master procedural code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the appointment of forensic expertise]] [[Registration number 1088]] The reporter is Dmitri Mikitovich Pritika, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 41 of the master procedural code of Ukraine is being submitted to your consideration of the order of second reading. [[on the appointment of forensic expertise]] The bill proposes to amend article 41 of the master procedural code. [[on clarifying the legal status of persons entitled to conduct judicial expertise]] In particular, it is proposed to extend the requirements set out in the Ukrainian Law on Forensic Expertise. The Committee on Justice at its session supported the proposed drafting of the bill, not only by agreeing with the proposal of the People's Chamber of Peacekeepers to restrict the circle of experts from relevant fields of expertise, who can be experts, but only those who have been submitted to the State Register of Certified Forensic Experts. If we agreed with this edition of the People's Deputy of Peacekeepers, it would significantly narrow down the ranks of specialists in various fields of science and production that could have been included as experts. This proposal is not supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. There is no legal authority to comment on the bill. Therefore, I would like to support the drafting of the bill proposed by the committee and to adopt it in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, the proposal for a second reading committee and, in general, as a law, the draft Act amending article 41 of the master procedural code of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[on the appointment of forensic expertise]] [[Registration number 1088]] Please vote. [[13:41:08]] For 306 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the basis of the review of judicial decisions is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2015]] Reporter Dmitry Mikitovich Pritika, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u256	Honourable National Deputies, the purpose of this bill is to bring Ukraine's current Criminal and Procedural Code into line with the requirements of article 46 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is part of Ukraine's national legislation. Article 46 of the convention relies on the State on which the European Court of Human Rights decides to violate the convention, and it is the responsibility of the European Court of Human Rights to comply. The project aims at remedying the shortcomings of Ukrainian procedural legislation by establishing grounds for review of judicial decisions and determining the procedural order for judicial conduct in all forms of judiciality: criminal, economic, civil, administrative. The bill proposes to amend the codes mentioned above, according to which the establishment of an international judicial institution whose jurisdiction is recognised by Ukraine, a violation of Ukraine’s international obligations in a court’s decision is the basis for a review of judicial decisions. During the drafting of the bill, four proposals were made to the committee for the second reading by law-makers. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no comments on the bill. Taking into account the above, the Committee requests the Supreme Council to support the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of the legislative acts introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers and to adopt it in a second reading and as a whole as a law. [[on grounds for review of court decisions]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, all the amendments are included. There is no chief legal authority to comment on the bill. So we have every reason to put the committee's proposal to the vote, namely, to adopt the second reading and the whole draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on grounds for review of court decisions]] [[Registration number 2015]] Please vote. [[13:44:00]] For 294 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the determination of the order and duration of certain categories of documents is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2402]] The rapporteur is the head of the Subcommittee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Hacko Valerij Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u258	Honourable National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 9 June 2008 a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the establishment of order and time limits for the storage of certain categories of documents. [[Registration number 2402]] The purpose of the bill is to eliminate contradictions in existing legislation regarding the order of storage of two types of documents, registrations and insurance payments, and to optimize their retention periods. With the aim of amending the laws of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, a working group was set up to include national MPs — representatives of executive authorities. In the drafting of the bill, six amendments and observations were made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies. The committee did not agree with the amendments made by the people's deputies: Kruc Mikoli Fedorovich and Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich – to replace the word “tolerant” with the word “tolerant” because the article is not about payment, but about the matter itself with all the necessary documents. [[20th position in the table]] By decision of the Committee of 4 November 2009, the table of amendments to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on the Definition of the Order and Dates of Preservation of Certain Categories of Documents is proposed to be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and adopted the Ukrainian Law as such. in general, like the Law. Please support the committee's decision and adopt the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u259	Dear colleagues, this is not a six-year-old amendment, Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on her? And the fifth one is not counted. Are you insisting on the fifth, sixth, amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u260	The first amendment is taken into account in an editorial way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u262	Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u264	After the sixth amendment, I propose to write that insurance claims are kept in the work force, the executive directorate, the social insurance fund for 75 years after the insured person is removed from the account. After the expiration of the life sentence, the insurance claim is subject to destruction in accordance with the order laid down in the law. As far as I can tell, she's close to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u266	Before what you're writing right now. But I'd like to understand, an editor. Do you think it's better to read first than what I suggested?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u267	Yuri Anatoliyovich, you've discussed this on the committee. Then let's let the hall decide on this question. Please, let's get to the bottom of this. We've already talked to you about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u268	Amendment number six of Yuri Karmazin shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:47:25]] For-75 Correction not supported. Honourable National Deputies are voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending certain laws in Ukraine to determine the order and time limits for the storage of certain categories of documents. Registration number 2402. Please vote. [[13:48:02]] For 270. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we should now consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[on the selection of city heads by majority system of absolute majority]] At the same time, the committee wrote that it was now working hard on this bill, and you know that we had decided on the Conciliation Council to consider it today, and asked to postpone the consideration of this bill in order for it to be aligned, including with representatives of local self-government. Should we put it to a vote? Does anyone deny it? So there's no objection, we postpone the consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 3051-1]] The draft Ordinance on the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the adoption of illegal decisions by officials of the Kiev City Council and its implementing body, second reading is announced. [[Registration number 5363]] The rapporteur is the head of TSK Kirilo Borisovich Kulikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u269	Dear colleagues, thank you for your opportunity to speak. Nevertheless, at the time they listen to us, they see many people, they see sneezes, they can hear everything that is happening today. I want to say that my personal position with regard to voting on this decision as a whole, when we took it as a basis, we did not vote before that that we would have such a procedure for taking a decision. But I still think we all need to hear it again, and once again we need to see who's doing all this in Kiev to destroy the city, who's against saving this city. At the request of the members of the faction of the regions, this decree, which was passed and adopted as a basis, was strengthened. Reinforced by Mr. Carmazin's correction. What is happening in Kiev today is a serious breach of legislation. Thus, the following was included in the decision as required by the Supreme Council’s transcript. The Attorney General is to arrange and ensure that a comprehensive audit is carried out by the Kyiv Public Prosecutor's Office for the supervision of the observance of human rights and freedoms, the citizen, the observance of laws, all matters by the officials of the Kiev City Council and its executive body. Within two weeks of the adoption of this decree, the Office of the Prosecutor’s Office should be re-examined to the Supreme Council for the outcome of its review of the appeals made by the interim commission of inquiry. I want to tell you again. Today, there is no reason for us not to take away this authority. But I've been associating with a lot of colleagues today, with you. And I have seen that every one of you calls a man by the name of Long. I think he didn't care about the Water Code or industrial policy, and he had one question: not to be voted for. I want to tell you that today what's happening in Kiev is going to be a difficult consequence of any President. Today we have seen what it means to support this corrupt power of any president. And I want to say one thing, quote one verse. It's called "The Turnover": And in the midst of the heartless and quarrelling With the dumb voice of an animal The growth of the young lambs. The headless catacombs of Ukraine. Do you know who wrote this verse? It was written by Olesia Long. This is the grandfather of this Long, who raised this Janist, who is the headless cat of Ukraine. Thank you very much. I'm asking you to support the ruling, colleagues. Then we will refer the decree to the committee for a political decision. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u270	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u271	We have a legal decision on the holding of the May 30th election in Kiev. This decision on the elections is only political, just to show that there are people in Kiev who care about the city and who stand up for the Chinese. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u272	Dear National Deputies! What about Yuri Anatolyovich? Can I have a ruling, please? Please, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u273	Yuri Carmazin. Dear friends! Now our colleague Kulikov has been slightly politicized on this issue. I thank you for your poetic creativity, but you don't have to politicize it. The report says, “received to what is known” because many people do not read, there is no precise decision before them. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, then read the paragraphs, and we will vote because the issue has been politicized. My friend, please, let's avoid politics. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u274	10 of the 11 members of the Interim Investigation Commission voted in favour of this ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u275	Yes, we voted on it as a whole. based on the base. Now let's just say there's no politics here. The first item provides a basis. The second is to send whom, the third is to pay attention, the fourth is the Cabinet of Ministers, the fifth. Then the task of the Attorney General's Office and the commission's investigator to continue the work, all in all. And control of Tomenko is the deputy head of the Supreme Council. The whole point of determination is that I already have it for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u276	Dear National Deputies! We took this draft decision as a basis, there were requirements for making proposals, so I understand that the proposals were made by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u277	They're accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u278	He insists that we put each paragraph to a vote if that is the case. One minute. Given what we've adopted, I'll set it up, but let's support it. Is there anything else about that? Mikhail Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u279	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Mr. Carmazin has spoken to everyone, we have discussed this ten times. Put to the vote, let us vote, the faction of the Party of the Regions will vote. We'll vote. Put the vote to the vote and everything else, otherwise he'll talk everything out in the light and then we'll put the order to a standstill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u280	Listen, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear people's deputies, one minute, we're on the clock right now, if the MP insists on points, we should vote on points, I'll put it. Yuri Anatolyovich, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] . Calm down, I beg you, don't control everyone right now. Please note, then, let's quickly go through the points and move on. Dear colleagues, there's no need to vote? I won't. I am betting on the vote, I will read the first paragraph: “Report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of violations of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the adoption of unlawful decisions by officials of the Kyiv City Council and its implementing body”, next, “Temporary Commission of Inquiry. Get to know each other." I'll put it to a vote, please. [[13:56:18]] For 331 Copy that. Second point: “Temporary investigator of the commission to report to the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service for appropriate response”. I'll bet the second paragraph, please. [[13:56:54]] For 314 Copy that. Third point: “To draw the attention of the President of Ukraine” “Office of the Ministers, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service for the violation of legislation by officials of the Kiev City Council and its executive body, which has led to a critical state of health, the environment and technological security of the capital, the unqualified management of corporate rights and the territorial foundation of the city of Kiev, the economically unjustified formation of tariffs, the destruction of cultural heritage objects”. [[All you have to do is write which]] I'll bet you a vote on paragraph 3. [[13:57:48]] For 323 Copy that. Paragraph four: “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the next meeting will consider the situation in Kiev in connection with the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, unlawful decisions by officials of the Kyiv City Council and its executive body with the invitation of representatives of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Chief Auditorate of Ukraine and the Court of Auditors.” The fourth paragraph shall be put to the vote. [[13:58:31]] For 315 Copy that. Paragraph 5: “The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, the National Court of Auditors of Ukraine to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine by February 20 of the results of the checks carried out by the Kyiv City State Administration on compliance with Ukrainian budgetary and tax legislation during financial and economic activities carried out in accordance with paragraph 7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Supreme Decree on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation, the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the adoption of unlawful decisions by officials of the Kyiv City Council and its executive body since 11.06. 2009’. I'll bet you a vote on paragraph five. [[13:59:29]] For 318 Point taken. I read the sixth paragraph : “The General Prosecutor’s Office of Ukraine, on the basis of the verification of the circumstances set out in the Interim Investigations Commission’s report, on the grounds that appropriate measures have been taken to deal with the prosecution’s response, to strengthen the supervision of Ukraine’s compliance with the Constitution and laws by officials of the Kiev City Council and its executive body. [[He's a big, respectable colleague, pay attention.]] The Attorney General of Ukraine is to organize and ensure a comprehensive audit of the Kyiv Public Prosecutor's Office regarding its supervision of the observance of human and civil rights and freedoms, compliance with the laws on these issues by the officials of the Kyiv City Council and its executive body. Within two weeks of the adoption of this decision, the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall be informed of the action taken by the Prosecutor's Office on the outcome of the examination of the appeals and the report of the Interim Investigation Commission.” I'm betting on this six-point vote, and there's only so much as a clarification that we can do -- provide information, because we're just going to keep reporting all the time. Provide information, and then we will be determined to listen to reports [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I'm filming my amendment if you insist. Please. That's what they tell me to do. But we accepted the Rules so that it would be in keeping with the Rules. I'm betting on the vote in the paper that I just made, and I've withdrawn my amendment. [[14:01:15]] For-161 Paragraph 6 is not supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] 7 paragraph: “Temporary investigator. ” The Temporary Temporary Investigation Commission, come on, take it off, please give it to the factions. [[7 Points]] Region Party - 1, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 127, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 32, communists - 0, "Litvina Block" - 0, non-fractional - 1. Seven points, we'll pass now, then we'll come back.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m0.u281	Dear colleagues, well, I will make my amendment, "to send information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine". Please identify yourself. [[14:02:07]] For 323 Decision taken. 7 p.m. The interim commission investigator will continue to work on the tasks envisaged, well, here's some formulation. Continue work on research or on the task envisaged by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation of 19 February 2009 No1012-5 “On the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the adoption of unlawful decisions by officials of the Kyiv City Council and its executive body, and the submission of a report by 19 July 2010. It's happening. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:03:09]] For 193 Paragraph 7 is not supported. Then this 8th becomes the 7th. “Control over the implementation of this decree is to place Mikola Tomenko, Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” I'll put it to the vote. It's now 7 of that point. [[14:03:40]] For 339 Copy that. I am now putting to the vote the draft decree as a whole. Registration number 5363. On the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the violation of the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the adoption of unlawful decisions by officials of the Kiev City Council and its executive body. [[14:04:19]] For 334 I'll take the order. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 4 p.m., we continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
