ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. 10: 01: 03 Cards were registered in the 376 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies: Volinz Evgen Valeriyovich, Perestenko Mirina Volodymyrovna, and Serbian Yuri Sergiyyovich. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them good health. [[Applause]] I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on March 4, 2010. Twenty-one questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: 2 laws and 4 decrees were passed, 10 bills were adopted on a basis, 1 bill was sent for re-reading, 5 bills were rejected. Dear National Deputies! According to article 25 of the Rules, on Wednesday 30 minutes are taken to make parliamentary inquiries. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Ms. Eugene VOLINCE to the President of Ukraine for not allowing the term to continue as head of the Shahtar District State Administration, Vladimir Chernikov. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. 10: 02:45 For -65 Request not supported. Oxana BILOSIR to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption in relation to the consideration of a committee of situations involving improper investigation by the law enforcement agencies of the Odessa area of a number of criminal offences. ŠAROVA Igora to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for an Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On the List of positions of scientific workers" to comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law "On Scientific and Technological Activities", in order to regulate the order of appointment of scientific pensions. Hennady Moskal to the President of Ukraine on the provision of information on the number of State awards awarded during the term of office of President Yushchenk of Ukraine and the number of assigned statuses for “National” enterprises and organizations by decrees of President Yushchenk of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. 10: 04: 18 For-103 Request not supported. Igor Sharov to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for a Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine “On the list of positions of scientific workers” to comply with the requirements of the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine” with a view to regulating the order of appointment of scientific pensions. Igor ŠAROV to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the urgent need to take effective measures to secure the Museum of History of Kiev with a separate building. Mikoli Sherschun to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the financing of rehabilitation work on roads in the villages of Sarnen and Rokitni district of the Plain region. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the restoration of the financing of socio-economic development of the villages of the Dubrovnik region of the Plains region, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of certain population areas of Volin and Plains to the zone of guaranteed voluntary eviction. ZARUBINE’S Oleg to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the introduction of energy conservation measures by the Cabinet of Ministers and for the promotion of public authorities in the economy of heating costs. GREENEVECH to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the possibility of carrying out comprehensive environmental monitoring of the Black Sea and the Azova Seas as objects of international environmental use. SERgy KOSHINA to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the urgent allocation of targeted funds for the continuation of the construction of the first - to third - grade Berest public education school in 2010 and its inclusion in the Regional Social Infrastructure Construction Program. Jury CARMAZINA to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy, acting as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of the merger of leading monopolies in the market for the sale of petroleum products, the unwarranted increase in prices of fuel-oil materials, the inaction of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the issue, which brings billions of profits to monopolists and affects the pricing of other goods, has a significant impact on the income of the average citizen and small businesses, the use of measures to set reasonable prices and to make them accountable. Mr. Vladimir DENILENKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the examination of all departments and offices of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to comply with labour law requirements, the non-derogation of workers' rights to internal affairs of Ukraine as regards working hours, working week and annual leave. TO THE Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for illegal excavations and the theft of treasures, gold archaeological objects of the 5th century, in the Odessa region near Lake Yalpug, which is to be included in a list of the five most famous finds of the legendary era of the Great Resettlement of the Nations. Edward PRUTNIK to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the facts set out in the address of the State Broadcasting Company CRIME and the use of appropriate measures. Edouard PRUTNIK to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for emergency situations and protection of the population against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the deputy head of the Montenegrin District State Administration on the need to eliminate the consequences of complex weather conditions, which have caused significant losses to the budget-making enterprise of the Bahraini district of the "Ombavian Stars" in connection with the rapid rise in the snow cover and the collapse of the roofs of the manufacturing complexes of the enterprise. Mikli TOMIKA to the deputy head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk about the illegal cessation of TV broadcasting in cable networks in Kotovska Odes region. The Olege ZARUBINSKI to the Ministry of the Ukraine for Family, Youth and Sports on the elimination of the causes that led to the failed participation of the National Assembly in the 2010 Winter Olympics and the use of measures to train Ukrainian athletes for international competitions. Mr. Alexander SKIBYNEZY to the executive responsibility of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to remove artificial obstacles to the work of the Ukrainian national deputy and provide comprehensive information on the results of the special inspection regarding the Ion Shalar militia captain. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent the destruction of the Zoločev Castle in the Lviv region. Alexia KOSTUSEVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine, on the abuse of Odessa’s urban head, Edward Gurveitz, other officials at the expense of the money received from the sale of the 1997 city bonds in Odessa. Helen ŠUSTIK to the Ministry of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine on the need to take measures to ensure that residents of the city of Torez Donetsky region are provided with adequate levels of municipal services. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine’s Office, and the Office of the Prosecutor - General of Ukraine, are concerned about the superficiality and irregularity of the closure of a criminal case committed by the death of a minor resident of the village of Chutov, in the region of Poltava, Ivan Lobanov. Mr. Mikoli Komara and Mr. Jury VOROPAJEVA are headed by the House of Auditors to assess the work of experts at the branch office of the Court of Auditors in the Donetsk Region at the National Institute of Scientific and Practical Medical Rehabilitation and Diagnostic Center of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Vladimir PHILIPPEN to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the circumstances of systematic and deliberate service abuses by members of the Lviv City Council and the city’s head, Andri Sadov, who had led to significant financial violations. Jury CARMAZINA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the organization of the abuse of office, the overriding of the service responsibilities of the Director-General of the Open Shareholders' Association "Drobobic Machinery Plant" Alexander Popovim, the intentional introduction of the plant into bankruptcy by means of the dissolution and destruction of the property of the company, the violation of the constitutional rights of employees to work, the unjustified release of almost all workers without payment of the debt for salary and relief, the use of appropriate measures to respond to the elimination of the numerous violations of the current Ukrainian legislation, the violation of the criminal case and the prosecution. Vladimir YAVORISKI to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the assignment of the Kyiv City Council of the Land to the Society with limited responsibility for the construction of the office-trade complex on the basis of the territory of the National Botanical Garden of Grych of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, which will result in the loss of the unique acquisition of the 20th century. YEUGENA KARJKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for possible abuses of military leadership in relation to the military force. Ms. Eugene KARJKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Odessa District State Administration for the protection of the constitutional rights of residents of the village of Černomorsk, Cominternov district of Odessa. Igor ALEXIEYEVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a thorough investigation of the Hmelnicki district and the district attorneys for the fraudulent actions of employees of the Hmelnicki city of BTI, which led to the illegal alienation of immovable property from a Ukrainian citizen Boris Klimishin. Igor KALETNIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a thorough examination of the abuse of power and the overcoming of official powers and drawing the former prosecutor of the district of Kiev, Vasil Dragogoz, to criminal responsibility for the crime in his actions as provided for in articles 364, 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Igor KALETNIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the cessation of improper proceedings by the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Renata Kuzmin, on the question of the criminalization of the head of the South West Railway Alexia Krivopišin. Irina HERASTENKO to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the threat of taking possession of part of the territory of the Botanical Garden of Grishka. OXANA BILOSIR to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the application of measures to repeal separate regulations of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decree of 3 December 2009, which allow the blocking of vehicles in the event of non-compliance by owners with parking rules, such as those that violate Ukrainian citizens' constitutional rights to dispose of their property. Oleg POLIČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the reconstruction of the Olympic NSC. Alexia KOSTUSJEVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of citizens whose housing is unlawfully included in the housing fund for temporary residence and on the responsibility of Odessa’s urban head, Eduardo Gurwicz, other officials of Odessa’s miscreants, who contributed to the illegal possession of apartments. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of violations of Ukrainian law in the Open Shareholder Company "Drobobic Machinery Plant". Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the legality of the actions of officials of the Dublin City Council of the Jovkow District of Lviv district in the delimitation of land and other matters. GORDIENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the groundlessness of the criminal offence against the resident of Sevastopol Paul Volkova and the superficiality and objectivity of his complaints by the city’s prosecutor. Sergey KIVALOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gravity of the criminal case filed against the former city chief of the city of Odessa Ruslan Bodelan. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of information provided in the Government report on the purchase of school buses. [[COMARA, SAMOFALOVA, KINAHA]] Petra CIBENKA and Sergey GORDIENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of labour rights and violations of the food security of the State by dismantling the Society's production capacity with limited liability "Lucan Sugar Plant" in the Tarostian region of the Kyiv region. Andrija PAVLOWSKI to the prosecutor of Kiev for the warning of the illegal liquidation of the post office of Kiev - 100 on the street of the No. 32/2 of Dniprovi district of Kiev. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the adoption of measures to prevent the cessation of hot water supply in Kiev. Igor KRIL to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for Unsatisfactory Transport Services of the villages of Gorbovici and Gnatovka Kyivo-Svatoshin district of Kyiv region and systematic violations by the carrier of the road transport company No4 Kyivpastrs contract for the organisation of passenger transport on the intercity bus route of general use No 769 "Svetosin Metro Station - village of Gorbovici". Oleg POLIŠČUKA, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, head of the Righteous District in Kiev State Administration, head of the Glossiev District in Kiev State Administration, Director General of the Kyivzelenbud Community, head of the General Directorate of Physical Culture and Sports of the Kiev State Administration for the creation of favourable conditions for ensuring a healthy lifestyle for the Ukrainian population. Alexia PLOTNIKOVA to the head of the Kiev District Council on Dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary appeal regarding the failure of the Directorate of Social Protection of the population of the two court decisions on the payment to Mikola Kirilenko of financial assistance and the failure of Agrotechservis to implement the decision of the session of the Biotzerkow District Council on the renovation of House No.5-B in the alley of the Bila Church Railways.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, here is a group of national deputies who have asked for the presidency to return to the request of the National MP, Gennady Moskal, because he sounded at the beginning and not everyone understood the meaning of it. The point is that we, not only national MPs, but also Ukrainian citizens, learn all about the reward system in place in Ukraine. I want to inform you that according to the media, the latest awards decrees are not published at all, and no one knows them yet. This is unfair, Ukraine should know its heroes. And so, of course, in this question, you have to give complete information about the status of nationals, because, according to the latest decrees, I understand, moving exhibitions have become national. So I think this is the rightful position of the Supreme Council to get full information from the President of Ukraine. Please put it to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, we had two draft questions, or, more precisely, two requests to the President of Ukraine that were not supported by the Supreme Council, and I'm going to put them to a vote. That is why I am voting for the return to the request of the Ukrainian national deputy Gennady Moskal to the President of Ukraine for information on the number of State awards awarded during the term of office of President Yashchenk of Ukraine and the number of assigned statuses “national” to enterprises and organizations by President Yashchenk's decrees. I'm betting on the vote on the return to this question. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] About the return, please. 10: 19: 46 Z-353 We have returned to the consideration of this parliamentary question. I would like to vote in favour of the MP's request to Gennady Moskal. Please vote. 10: 20: 11 For 361 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. 10: 20: 31 For 353 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Eygen Wolintz's request to the President of Ukraine to prevent the extension of the term of office of the head of the Shakhtar District State Administration, Vladimir Chernikov. I'm voting for a return to this motion, please vote. 10: 21: 07 For 230 We returned to the consideration of this question. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. 10: 21: 26 For the 220. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. 10: 21: 46 For 216 The decision is not taken. At the same time, I would like to point out to you that the heads of state administration are all in charge of the newly elected President of Ukraine. I think that this request can be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers later. Dear National Deputies! You're on schedule for today. A draft decree on measures to preserve the areas of Mount Klimentiev, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, is under consideration. [[Uuzun Sirt]] Rapporteur - National Deputy of Ukraine Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich, co-rapporteur - head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Bebelzenko Valeriy Fedorovich. Dear colleagues! We have 16 questions to consider today. So if you don't mind, I put the 5542 bill to the vote on a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. 10: 23: 07 For 172 Decision taken. Ukraine’s national deputy, Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich, is invited to speak. 10: 23: 20
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u4	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! With your permission, I'll read out an initiative group for the rescue of Mount Klimentiev. This group is brought together from all over the world and a host of civil organizations associated with aviation. Dear National Deputies! We call on you to convey deep concern about the threat posed by Mount Clementyev, the home of the Soviet Ukrainian Air Force, is now the largest free flight center in the former Soviet Union and one of the most important tourist sights of the Crimea. [[Uuzun Sirt]] In December 2009, we learned about the plans of the Crimea Regional Authority to transfer about half the area of the plateau to farmers. [[Uuzun Sirt]] If these plans are implemented, the mountain will be lost as a unique natural historical and cultural landscape, unpowered flights over it will become impossible. Mount Clementius is a holy place for all people who have a bearing on aviation. Since the 23rd year, there have been tests of the first Soviet aircraft. Later, the country’s only high - school flight planner, followed by the active Center for Planetary Sport, worked on the mountain. Many thousands of pilots first ascended to the sky above Mount Clementius in more than 80 years of her history. Among them are the kings who opened the way to space for mankind, Antonov, the creator of the renowned KGB, who is now the pride of the Ukrainian aerospace sector. The mountain is linked to the memory of the great pilots of Arceulov, Anohina. The first flying machines of the famous designers Jacob, Illushina, Cybin, Ceranowsky were created here. In recent decades, the mountain has become the center of free flight, and there are Ukrainian, Russian, Polish, German, Moldova, Belarus, Israel, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and many others to participate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u6	Deltaplannerism. So we ask you to stop the transfer of Mount Clementie's territory to agricultural use and to establish the status of the mountain, which excludes similar dangers in the future and preserves them for generations to come. I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u7	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u8	So in view of the events that are taking place, I would like to see the first paragraph of the Supreme Council decision to continue, which would allow for the preservation of the conditions for the further use of the mountain to engage in sports aviation. Please support this decision of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u9	Thank you. Have a seat, please. By Be Bevanko Valerij Fedorovich, head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. 10: 26: 30
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee at its meeting on 16 February 2010 reviewed the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the measures taken to preserve the territory of Mount Klimentiev in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by the Ukrainian National Deputies Danilenko, Prestenko. [[Uuzun Sirt]] [[Registration number 5542]] A number of measures have been taken to prevent the destruction of a unique location that lacks aerodynamic properties in Europe and to preserve conditions for the further development of deltaplanetary and paraplanetary sport in Ukraine. The intentions of the Kirov Regional Administration of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to transfer part of the wages of Usun Sirt for farming have caused concern to state and public organizations, citizens, namely the DAC Antonov, the Federation of Aviation Sports of Ukraine and others that testify to their appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By paragraph 1 of the above-mentioned decision in accordance with part 3 of article 53 of the Ukrainian Law on the Nature and Command Fund, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic has been entrusted with the task of ensuring the announcement of Mount Clementyev as an object of the Natural Reserve Fund. Proposals for the cessation of ownership and use of part of land are also supported by the committee, as the transfer of land without any restrictions may result in the loss of this fee, as a unique natural and historical cultural landscape, as well as a tourist centre and a Ukrainian airline centre. [[Uuzun Sirt]] In view of the above, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on measures to preserve the territory of Mount Klimentiev in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, registration number 5542, introduced. [[Uuzun Sirt]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u11	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u12	Danilenko and Perestenko, both as a basis and as a whole as a determination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u13	Thank you, sit down, please. Your Honor, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national deputies. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of Regions, will be followed by John Kirilenko. 10: 29: 19
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Our committee reviewed this bill and supported it in order to consider it and accept it as a basis for today. And in addition to what Bevanko said in the committee report, I would like to reaffirm my personal position, and I think we should focus on what's going on in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in matters of land. You know, in line with this example, we consider as an example that the local authorities should always say that in order to preserve such unique opportunities in order to develop a particular sports sector in Ukraine and provide opportunities for a young generation to have a future where they will be tested by those or other sports competitions, etc. At the same time, I would like to point out that in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, there are more important issues in this issue: illegal land capture. And you must all be in Crimea, and you feel or see for yourself what is being done. It is illegal to seize land by one organization or another, by one or another. And it's often organized work because it's got this commercial character, near Simferopol, near Bahchisarai, near Yalta, etc. There are ordinary small booths that are surrounded by a fence or a fence. Then it becomes that they are being tried to legalize, and in fact the destruction, destruction of land that is under the silhouettes and has a legal status. So I'm paying attention to people's deputies and law enforcement agencies that in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, there's a very important violation of the laws of the Earth Code, and there's every indication of what's going on there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u16	So I ask you to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u17	Thank you. Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko is transferring the right to speak to the Sanchenko College, please, the faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. 10: 31: 48
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! What has been happening in land relations in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the past 10 years is no other crime than that of future generations of citizens of our country. Well, things you couldn't even think about before. Imagine the Nikita Botanical Garden, one of the symbols of Crimea and our country. Created nearly two centuries ago by an order from the emperor. During the occupation, during the Second World War, the fascists did not touch the Nikitian Botanical Garden, and for the past 10 years it has been actively set up, and it is being built, and it is currently under the supervision of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, headed by our colleague, Deputy Zubec, and the first branch in the territory of the Nikit Garden has been built, excuse me, by Mr. Horoshkovsky, who now serves as head of the Security Service. What's happening on Mount Klimentiev is the continuation of this vakhanali. And the question is not at what level of authority these decisions have been taken, the question is that this is happening cynically, dissolvingly and most importantly, that the consequences of the long, long years of decades, or perhaps longer periods, so to speak, we are losing everything, so to speak, the opportunities and the person and potential of our country. I will not repeat what the rapporteur said about the cradle of aviation and cosmonauticals, and that is, in fact, to say that it will allow us to maintain those crumbs of the basis for educating young people and to fill the long gap in this process. I therefore support this decision, and I believe that it will show that power is still in the country, but at least it supports the public and our citizens in some way, and not only is it concerned with its own problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u19	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction, prepare for John the Rabbit. 10: 34: 02
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u20	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I have in my hands a parliamentary request dated February 10th, my deputy's request to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Mr. Plakidi, for ineffective politics that has led to a threat to recreational zones on Mount Uzun Sirt and other historical and natural monuments of Crimea. It's a parliamentary request. It's been 25 days. There is no answer. Apparently she won't be. And it will not be because the land is already being distributed there and there will be no answer because it is obviously sold to fictitious people on earth. They're already able to buy and sell. It's been 25 days. There is no answer to the MP's request. I am convinced that this is not a matter of a local nature, of a circuit character, but of a matter of the Republic's Crimea scale. This is the first position. One second. Here the right things were said by my colleagues who spoke to me, because it was a unique sport, as they say, a real estate. But let us also take this for granted because it is a historical monument. For history’s monuments are not only related to battles but are related to material progress that is characterized by trials, as they say, both Queen and Jacob, and Illushina, and so on. It is a historical monument and must be treated in this way. In general, I am personally indignant, indignant that the mountains had apparently already been sold in Ukraine. Let's sell all the mountains.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u21	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". 10: 36: 02
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u22	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must support this decision and do our utmost to preserve the original territory of Mount Clementius in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[Uuzun Sirt]] Why? We have to get out of the fact that it's a unique place. And we realize that the world today is in a frenzy of the so - called motionless flying machines. This area is a laboratory for testing these aircraft. And only a suicide can destroy such a laboratory. I think national MPs aren't suicides, and they'll understand the uniqueness of this place. The other one. Who among you believes that this part of the plateau will be devoted to farming? I think it's going to be a little while before the construction starts. And that means that the relief will be destroyed, which means that the natural landscape will be destroyed. So we're directly disrupting the landscape convention, we're going to destroy it, or if we don't stop this process, another natural historical landscape will be destroyed. Again, I think we should stop here in these things, we can't cut the bitch we're sitting on. So I think we need to make this decision, but not just in the first reading, but in the short run, we need to prepare it for the second reading so that we don't create a lot of time to give birth to some new legal facts. Thus, perhaps even in general today, this provision can be adopted and preserved, and this unique part of our historic natural landscape can be preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Persevere, please, microphone. 10: 38: 19
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u24	Thank you. Presumptuous, the Communist faction. I would like to clarify a little about the ruling itself. But the point is that it has recently been marked by a movement to change the situation, and we propose to detail paragraph one, after saying, “The Supreme Rally of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to ensure the declaration of the territory of Mount Klimentiev as an object of the natural-commanding fund of the proper legal regime” to add: “that would allow for the preservation of the conditions for the further use of the mountain for the pursuit of sporting aviation”. And to vote in this order. And I propose to support, in general, as a matter of fact, today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on measures to preserve the territory of Mount Klimentiev in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[Uuzun Sirt]] [[Registration number 5542]] Please vote. 10: 39: 51 For 354 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt a draft decision as a whole. No warnings? So the proposal was from the Communist faction. Please, Adam Martinyuk's microphone. 10: 40: 08
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I sincerely thank all the colleagues who spoke, including the profile committee, for supporting this extremely sinister problem. All of them argued that, indeed, we have reason to accept it as a whole. Here is the clarification that in the first paragraph: “The Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to ensure the declaration of the territory of Mount Klimentiev as an object of the natural-command fund of the proper right regime, - and further - which would allow for the preservation of the conditions for the further use of the mountain to engage in sports aviation”. [[Uuzun Sirt]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u27	Is there no objection? With this amendment in mind, can I put to the vote a draft decision as a whole? With this amendment in mind, under your agreement, I am putting to the vote a proposal for a draft decision on measures to preserve the territory of Mount Klimentiev in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea as a whole. [[Uuzun Sirt]] Registration number 5542. Please vote. 10: 41: 36 For-321 Decision taken. Please, John the Rabbit, microphone. Volodymyr Stretović, please, microphone. 10: 41: 56
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u28	Vladimir Stretović, “Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense”, Party of the Christian Democratic Union. Dear colleagues, it's not at all a matter of the Supreme Council's jurisdiction: it's a determination to make such a decision, because under the Constitution, property and legal matters are governed by laws. In this case, therefore, a law must be adopted. But we hope that this lesson will serve the Crimean authorities in the future, and in general, that if it comes to the Supreme Council, it is necessary to take care of the national interests by complying with the Supreme Council’s decree. In accordance with the ARC Decision, appropriate decisions will be taken regarding the establishment of an order in the land issue. Because with regard to the abolition of acts of property recognition, this must be determined by law with due process. And then we made a political decision, and we hope that it will affect those local princes in Crimea who are embezzling the good of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, to what Vladimir Stratovic added, it must be said that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the Constitution, adopts laws and regulations. So there's this commission, if you don't mind: the apparatus to prepare the information gathered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, how many decisions we have adopted in this office, I mean the nature, not the personnel, and how the process is going on and what's being done for them. And I ask you to prepare such a written commission. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft decree to announce 2010 as veterans of the Great Homeland War. Rapporteur, Ukrainian National Deputy, Koleshničenko Vadim Vasilovich, co-reviewer, Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich. I'll bet. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko will report from the committee. I am voting on a motion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. 10: 44: 10 For-90 The decision is not taken. Rapporteur - Ukrainian National Deputy Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich. Please. 10: 44: 20
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u30	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs, distinguished voters! I have just, Vladimir Mikhailovich, given a very fine protocol commission to deal with the decisions that the Supreme Council has been making during this time. And so far we have documents that confirm that most of our decisions are not being implemented. And now in my report, it's going to be another very important decision that we've made so far about the results of the parliamentary hearing recommendations. And we are forced to make a decision again that our own personal decisions are not being fulfilled. On May 9, 2010, the entire Ukrainian people, the fraternal peoples of the former Soviet Union and the world society will celebrate the 65th anniversary of the Victory over the German-Pashistic invaders of the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945 and the Second World War. The national significance is the perpetuation of the feat of liberators and the veneration of war veterans. The victorious countries will honor their fallen soldiers and those who have died in peacetime as heroes. Ukraine has assumed international commitments to declare 2010 the veterans of the Great Homeland War. Sadly, though, he had not been executed by this time. The 2010 issue of the 2010 announcement of veterans of the Great Homeland War is addressed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Social, Medical and Retirement Security for War Veterans. But the celebration of the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great War of 1941-1945” since October 9, 2009. By January 1, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine announced that Parliamentary hearings were to be carried out by executive bodies, which was also not implemented. The purpose of the project is to make a decision at the national level to declare this year the year of the veterans of the Great Homeland War and to ensure that the memory of the fallen soldiers of the liberators is cherished in the Great Homeland War and to honor the immortal feat of war veterans in the year of the 65th anniversary of the Victory over the Fascist invaders. The main task is to ensure the unconditional fulfilment of the requirements of the Ukrainian War Veterans Act, guaranteeing their social protection for war veterans, who lived in Ukraine on January 1, 2009, for more than two million 400,000 people. The preservation and development of the famous fighting and labour traditions of the Ukrainian people, the strengthening of the patriotic upbringing of citizens, the preservation of historical truth and the formation of national pride for the prominent sons of the Ukrainian people. Unfortunately, today we have to say that the figure of 2 million 400,000 has already dropped significantly. And our moral obligation, our obligation to our veterans to accept this decision and to honor our veterans. The draft decree is to announce this year and recommend taking into account this decision of the future Cabinet of Ministers in its activities and in the activities of the organ committee in preparing and defining 65-year-old Ukraine's liberation from the fascist invaders and victory in the Great War of 1941-45. The meeting of parliamentary hearings and the unreserved execution of all the points discussed by veterans in this room, but unfortunately nothing has yet been done. And the Cabinet of Ministers of Timoshenko, who was only involved in the electoral campaign, did nothing to meet our determination and the demands of our veterans. I am pleased that President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine, in his election campaign, also spoke of what he would do to make this year a year of veterans of the Great Homeland War. And I'm sure that he's fulfilling his pre-election promise, and we, as national deputies, as the electorate who should meet the demands of our constituents and our veterans, will do our best to ensure that this decision is adopted and implemented in full. Because the adoption of this decree, which you are offered, will provide an opportunity to ensure the worthy eternal memory of the fallen warrior commanders in the Great War of Homeland, to honor the Ukrainian people with an immortal feat, our veterans in the year of the 65th anniversary of the great victory over the fascist invaders. This will enable us to take a new breath in the preservation and development of the famous fighting and labour traditions of the Ukrainian people. Regulations will strengthen the patriotic upbringing of Ukrainian citizens, preserve historical truth, and form national pride for the glorious defenders of the country. This will be a unifying factor for the Ukrainian people, not a disuniting one. I ask you to support this decision and I think it will be our contribution. This is a very important question, such as honoring our historical memory and bringing up our youth on truly fighting and working traditions, which are a glorious page in the victory of our nation, a glorious page in the history of our nation, and a glorious page in the future of our nation, which will unite us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u31	Question to the reporter, please log in. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Taras Cranville. 10: 50: 43
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u32	Dear reporter! In support of the idea of the law in general, I have a few questions. First. Do you confuse fascism and Nazism in this case again? They're different ideologies, they're both human hateful, but fascism is the right ideology in Italy, Nazism, national socialism -- the left ideologies in Germany. [[I don't know if it's in the law, but it was in the speech.]] These are completely different things. One second. Speaking of fighters, of those who fought against him, of war veterans, do you not want to expand this subject, for example, to the direction of the victims of war, of those who have suffered? These people have survived their horrors, and this is not about specific social functions, it's about a year of these people. These people are also left with little, some respect for their memory plus all others in the form that they struggled with. You may not like UPA, but in your time you wrote a serious paper about Poliski Sich, and you can't blame them for their cooperation, say, with the fascists. You know about Polish certain rebel groups underground and so on. Is it not an extension to make it adequate, but is it a year?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u33	Thank you. The draft decree refers to German-Fashistic invaders and the victory in the Great Homeland War over German-Fashite invaders. The ideologies of Nazism in this draft decree are nothing. That's the first one. The other one. We're going, we're talking about our international commitments, we're going to announce the year of the veterans of the Great Homeland War. And the questions that you're saying, I think that's going to be the subject of another decision, because it has a different meaning and other load. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u34	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction 10: 52: 31
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u35	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. First of all, I would like to thank the author of the draft decision for making such an extremely important document and document, which is extremely timely today. Secondly, please tell us how the author of the decision appreciates the fact that the President of Ukraine, having signed under Ukraine's international obligations, has not only not issued a decree to comply with these international obligations, but has not found it necessary to inform the public that such international obligations have been signed. I, for example, learned how a national deputy, as the Head of the Veterans’ Council, was, unfortunately, aware of this when the Board of Coordination of the Veterans’ Organizations of the Commonwealth of Independent States took place. How do you appreciate this fact? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u36	Unfortunately, this is a disgraceful and disgraceful page of our history and of the ex-President of Yushchenk, who practiced in his politics unfortunately the politics of double standards. But I believe that the new President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, will twist this disgraceful page of our historical lie, the lie and disunity of the Ukrainian people and will do everything not only to make the international obligations we make, but also to meet the demands of time, the challenges of time and the main efforts of our voters, that is first. And the second. Unfortunately, in this case, Victor Yushchenko, the ex-president of Ukraine, acted as a representative of a marginal political power rather than uniting our state and dishonoring our state in front of European society. And I can give you an example of when on February 25, European MPs had already shown us that we had made a very disgraceful case, a very shameful example in our country, when President Yushchenko rewarded Bandera with the sign “Heroy of Ukraine”. But I think you've gone back to simple political demagogies by bringing up such an important question. I find it most unpleasant when we are forced to announce the year of the veterans of the Great Homeland War. Because in previous years it may be thought that they were not meant to make the lives of these people more important and so on. Aren't you told that this regulation should record, for example, the 2010-2015 announcement of veterans? I think you will have every opportunity to dedicate this five - year period to the lives of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. I am pleased that you have called the activities of the so - called parliamentary majority political demagogies. But this political demagogy, as you put it, is called: Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “Recommendations of Parliamentary Hearings on the topic: On the social, medical and pension security of war veterans and the marking of 65 years of victory in the Great War of 1941-1945.” And this decision was voted here in this room last year. And I'm very sorry that the Timoshenko government didn't even finance, orientate itself or implement parliamentary recommendations, and yours included. Well, if you haven't voted, that's your business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u38	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". 10: 56: 43
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u39	Vladimir Karpuk, a member of the “For Ukraine! “ I don’t know Dear reporter, this is really a decision that needs to be made. But this decision is, unfortunately, shorter than your speech and discussion. So this is also a testimony to the fact that this is a kind of pyar. Next, you speak in your answers about the marginality of certain political forces and their representative of the President. In doing so, you eliminate from political life the creation of history a large part of the electorate who supports these very political powers. Again, even what you're saying and why you're saying this, if it's a really good question to discuss about veterans of World War II, you're saying that you have to separate it into another decree, a separate decree. Once again, there are large groups of people, and once again there is no unification that you speak so much about. Because ununited things cannot be brought together. And really, that's what we have to do, but it's based on that tolerance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. I agree with you. We need to unite within the limits of historical truth and historical justice. But not in the framework of lies and political orientation. That's the first one. And the second. I'm surprised you call your draft decision, which you probably voted for, a political pianist. I just proposed to your colleague, and now I'm reminding you again of the Supreme Council's ruling on Parliamentary hearings on page 10. You're suggesting that I also rewrite them in this determination. We don't have to do anything stupid. We have fulfilled our international commitment and in the draft decree, as I have proposed, we refer to the project, to the ruling on parliamentary hearings. And unfortunately, these parliamentary hearings have shown that this problem is urgent, but the Cabinet of Ministers has in no way responded to our decision with you. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u41	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. 19: 58: 55
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u42	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Vadim Vasilovich, I support your initiative on this decision. At the same time, I would like to ask you to inform us that you know that much of the time has passed and that part of the Ukrainian veterans are in the Russian Federation or in the Belarusian Republic, some of the Russian veterans are in the territory of Ukraine, and this is not only a Ukrainian question just our Ukraine, but it is indeed an international one. Please tell us, at least in two countries, Belarus and Russia, what measures are envisaged for this year and how they are intertwined and related, those people who have found themselves because of some migration issues but who have kept their citizenship in other countries. Please inform us what steps are being taken and how this will take place in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u43	With regard to mutual promises and obligations. We exchange rewards between our three nations and offer opportunities for the rewards that are available in Russia or Ukraine to pass them on to veterans in one country or another. That's the first one. We were constantly united within organizational committees, such as the Victory Parade. This year the Russian Federation has already announced an organizational plan. Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, as far as I know, is in Russia today, and interviews will also be held to unite our efforts for a united festival. And I would like to remind you that Victor Janukovic said back in August that we need to do a unified monument to the People's Liberation for our three states. And that's what's happening. This is our modest but very effective contribution to the protection of our victory, the protection of our historical memory, and the support of our veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u44	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. 11:00:52 A.M.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u45	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. It makes perfect sense for people under 80 years of age, or over 80 years of age, to make a day for their memory. Thank God many are still alive. And if you're taking part in combat, if you consider that the last appeal was in the 44th year, they're the 27th year of birth, they're 83 years old. For them morally, it's very important, maybe they'll go into a different world, and I wish it was as late as possible, but with the understanding that it's their year. I mean, that's good. I have another question. It's about, well, look, we're actually calling for a different decision to be fulfilled, you know? We make a decree in which we are required to execute another decree. We may still be taking a decision to comply with this decree of yours on the enforcement of the parliamentary decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. Unfortunately, this is a pun and confirms that the Cabinet of Ministers has not responded at all to our appeal with you, to our determination with you. And it shouldn't be, the Cabinet of Ministers has to work side by side with both the Supreme Council and the President. Sadly, that was not the case. And Vladimir Mikhailovich, before we discussed this, said that we should look at the number of decisions that are being made in general. We have, well, about control very, unfortunately, we're very underworked. And I could, of course, rewrite all of this again, but given that we're not really correct in this question, we've only made a link, and it gives us the understanding that the determination -- much more and certainly, first of all, refers to the socio-medical provision of our veterans, which at present, I haven't received statistical help yet, but I'm afraid that this year will be less than 2 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u47	Thank you. Sit down, time's up. Zybenko Peter Stepanovich of the committee has a word for the report. 11: 03: 15
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u48	The Communist faction, the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, is the head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, respected veterans! A significant date is approaching -- the 65th anniversary of Ukraine's liberation from the fascist invaders and victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945, which will certainly be the most significant event in the year 2010. During the next meeting of the Heads of State of the Commonwealth of Independent States, held on 9 October 2009 in Chisinau, with the participation of the President of Ukraine, a decision was taken to announce 2010 in the Commonwealth of Independent States the year of the veterans of the Great Homeland War 1941-1945 and to hold it under the slogan “We built it together”. According to a plan of major preparations for the preparation and celebration of this remarkable event approved by the SND Council of Heads of State decision of October 10, 2008, which Ukraine signed with caution, our nation has made international commitments to make a decision to announce the year of the veterans of the Great War. It's not surprising, though it's not surprising to me personally, that no appropriate decision has been made to date at the state level. This would be the decision of the President of Ukraine to declare 2010 the veterans of the Great Homeland War. The draft decree then proposes to declare 2010 as the year of the veterans of the Great Homeland War. At its meeting on February 17, this year, with the participation of civil war veterans’ organizations, the committee reviewed the draft decree and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. It should be noted, however, that the second draft regulation provides for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to meet the requirements of paragraph 2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on “On Social Health and Pension Insurance for War veterans and the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War 1941-1945” from 9 October 2009 on information by 1 January 2010 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the implementation of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations by executive authorities. [[No.162-6]] It should be noted that a letter dated 30 December 2009 from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine informed the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the implementation of the above recommendations. Thus, today’s implementation of this item is no longer relevant. I would also like to point out that although the author of the regulation has determined that there is no additional financial expenditure from the State budget for Ukraine for 2010 for the implementation of the project, such expenditure will take place. We therefore propose that the draft decree be supplemented by an appropriate paragraph to oblige the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure that funds are made available for the implementation of measures related to the 2010 declaration of veterans of the Great Homeland War. Thus, the committee proposes to accept this project as a basis and in general, taking into account the warnings that have been made. And one more thing I'd like to say is this possibility. My dear colleagues, the distinguished Ukrainian national MPs, I very much ask everyone, regardless of party ownership, regardless of the region you represent in this room, to support the draft of this decision, because it will be the return of at least a small part of our debt with you to veteran frontalists who have saved not only Ukraine, but not just the Soviet Union, they have saved Ukraine and the world from fascism. So I ask very much on behalf of the committee to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u49	Questions, please. Write it down and write it down. To the co-conspirator. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. 10: 08: 18
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u50	Thank you. Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Dear reporter! I listened carefully to the reports of the first and the second. Of course, it's beautiful, and I'm sure the Supreme Council will support these wonderful initiatives. But you know what's bothering you? The previous authorities, as a form of such work, compromised so much that it seems to me that if we call the decree - "for a year" - it will even offend our veterans because there was a year of the village declared there by the President - compromised, extinct villages, there was a year of the teacher - even worse, medicine, culture - even worse. Perhaps we should, you know, not in uniform, but in the content of our determination to declare a special, eternally caring society for the veterans of the Great Homeland War. And beyond the text, so that we know, and the veterans that tomorrow it won't end. As long as they live, we will take special care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u51	Thank you for asking, Sergey Mikolayovich. What I'm saying is that I absolutely share the approach that you've outlined by asking this question. And I am absolutely convinced that by this regulation we will all do this together in order to implement the existing legislation in part of caring for the veterans of the Great Homeland War. But the issue is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ukraine, joins international commitments. A decision was taken on the Council of the Commonwealth of Independent States to hold a “Victory Together” event, and therefore the name of this year should still be one. And in fact, I absolutely share your approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u52	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. 11: 10: 18
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear Peter Stepanovich. To capture these political speculations about who he was fighting, you are well aware that during the Great War, there were guerrilla groups that were also subject to the status of members of the Great National War, which did not fall under the jurisdiction of the central headquarters of the guerrilla movement, I refer to guerrillas of the same Ukrainian rebel army, who did not entangle their hands with the blood of civilians who went to the front with our troops in 44 years. Please tell me, as the former chairman of the committee, today's deputy head of the committee, these people or they are subject to the basic law on social status and protection of participants in the Great War. Because we're about to start, I think, a little bit of a mess, who's not ours, who's not ours. This is the Day of Victory, where different people have taken part in this fight, please tell us to what extent these people who are not under the central headquarters are subject to the jurisdiction of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u54	Thank you. In this case, we accept the Supreme Council's ruling, and if we go back to the "On the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection" Act, your question relates to it, it provides that the status of war participants has included that part of the guerrilla, as you said, of the movement that did not commit crimes against humanity first, and which are justifiable in the judicial order and they have received the right status. So on them, on this part of the veterans, the law on the status of veterans of war and the guarantees of their social protection are also spreading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u55	National MP Lukyanchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. None. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". 11: 12: 18
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u56	Vladimir Karpuk, a member of the “For Ukraine! “ I’m sorry. ” Dear Peter Stepanovich! If you go back to your proposal to delete part of paragraph 2 of the ruling, it will be a very short decision: to announce 2010 as veterans, Kabmin as funding, to place control on the Ukrainian Committee on Pensioners and Disabled Persons. Tell me, please, because if we just announce this year as a veteran, if we don't have enough funding, let's be realistic, the main thing is to finish by 9 May. When there is no budget, that is, it will be extremely difficult to provide all the necessary payments provided by parliamentary hearings. Maybe we should take a look at the idea of the Deputy Undergraduate of the 2010-2015 term and really do everything you think should be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u57	I thank you for asking. What I'm saying is that the de facto draft decree solves the problem of fulfilling Ukraine's international obligations. That is, the 2010 announcement of the veterans of the Great Homeland War. All that you've talked about in the meaningful part has been decided on a plan of urgent action. They've already been approved for the celebration of this date, which is, in fact, this document already exists. And today's decision, as it were, concludes this summit of action to be taken to mark this glorious date, that is, de facto, these decisions have already been made, is an appropriate plan of urgent action in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u58	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Please sign up. Please put your name on the information board. Mikhailo Chechetov, please. 11: 14: 59
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u59	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In order to ensure that the memory of the fallen liberators in the Great Homeland War is remembered, 41-45 years old, to honor the immortal feat of war veterans, to preserve and develop the glorious military and labour traditions of the Ukrainian people, to strengthen the patriotic upbringing of Ukrainian citizens, to preserve historical truth, and to form national pride for the glorious defenders of the country, is proposed to announce 2010 as the year of the veterans of the Great Nativity War. Dear colleagues! It's a time-consuming decision-making project. And the faction of the Party of Regions refers to all the deputies of different political colors, different ideological colors, to take this very important decision in general. And I want to thank the People's Deputy of the Vadim Koleshnenko Region Party for this determination, because it will allow future generations to be raised on historical truth, on the great patriotism of our heroic people during the Great War of the Homeland. It is our civic responsibility both to veterans and to future generations. Thank you for your attention. And I propose that you take this decision as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u60	People's deputy Kravchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. To prepare Adam Martinyuk. 11: 16: 28
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u61	Dear National Deputies! My two grandfathers took part in the Great Homeland War and were seriously injured. I personally served in a group of Soviet armies in Germany, and I had to walk twice in the streets of Potsdam with a parade. And I was proud that I was going through a parade in Germany, and not the Germans were going through a parade on the streets of Kiev, Moscow, then the former Soviet Union. And I'm proud of that, and I'm going to vote in favour of that decision. In turn, I would like to make a comment on the fact that we voted in favour of the law at the last session for amendments to the Law on Social and Medical Insurance for Persons with Disabilities and War veterans. And there was a vote on Adam Ivanovich's amendment, but unfortunately, when the law was published, there was a forgery, unfortunately no one had considered it so far, and Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's amendment was not taken into account for the benefits involved in providing the veterans, the disabled of war, the provision of free cars. So I'm going to suggest in my resolve to include issues, at least as far as insurance and benefits are concerned, concerning the disabled of the Great Homeland War. In general, I will support the ruling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u62	Adam Martinyuk, a faction of Communists, will be followed by Viacheslav Kirilenko. 11: 18: 23
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I am fortunate to say that I am the son of a soldier of the Great Homeland War. Fortunately, the father of the Great Homeland War is alive and well, and I want the same for every one of those who remain in our state. Today, some figures have been made, and I will highlight them again. The draft decree that we're looking at, the accompanying documents say that as of January 1, 2009, there were 2 million 400,000 participants in the Great War. By January 1, 2010, they're already 1 million 800,000, that is, by the time we celebrate the 65th anniversary, unfortunately, they'll be even less than 1 million 800,000. But I'm asking a logical question: can 45 or 46 million Ukrainians not provide a decent life for that 1 million citizens? They may even be obliged to do so! It's very good that we're in the draft decree declaring a year of veterans, but it would be very bad if we just announced it. And the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers only has to make recommendations for parliamentary hearings is not enough. I propose that the decision specifically states that the Cabinet of Ministers should urgently develop a set of measures to implement our assistance. I'll give you another number. You know, by basic law, the participants of the Great Homeland War have, among other things, on 9 May to receive single aid from a state that should be at least 10 minimum salaries. So this year, war invalids would get 5,000 730 dollars by 9 May once. So far, they're getting just over 500 dollars, 10 times less. So let's get at least a 65-year-old victory to fully implement a basic law that, unfortunately, has never been implemented. Another very important problem related to that date is not just that date. We can speak and advertise for years, for five years, for decades, but this requires budgetary support. Unfortunately, there is no budget to date. Hence, there will be nothing to ensure that this decree is implemented. And last of all, about what Crawchuk said. Fortunately, the committee, let me finish, Vladimir Mikhailovich, fortunately, is a professional committee, including I participated, I think next week we'll go back to the subject. On another occasion, my suggestion is that the disabled remain free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u64	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense". Prepare Vladimir Karpuk. 11: 21: 50
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u65	Viacheslav Kirilenko, MP “For Ukraine! “ I don’t know Honorable colleagues, respected voters, certainly have a hard time overestimating the contribution of the Ukrainian people to the victory of the Great National War. Along with other nations, the Ukrainians made a significant, invaluable, sacrificial contribution to this victory. Ukraine then, along with other nations, other nations, fought for liberation from the captives, for liberation from German-Fashistic invaders. Of course, the Ukrainian people, under any authority, under any political circumstances, honor this holiday, celebrate it and celebrate it. Of course, we need to vote on the current decision, but we also need to think that Ukraine is large and for Ukraine's independence and freedom for all who now live in Ukraine were fought by different people, different Ukrainians from different armies. For example, I'm not a Galician and I don't have any relatives from the Ukrainian rebel army, but I'm from the White Church of the Kyiv Region and my cousin, the Hero of the Soviet Union. And I studied in high school the name of my cousin Hero of the Soviet Union, who died bravely in Poland in 1944 in the city of Bila Church. Of course, such events should be respected by decrees. But respect for money must be respected, decisions must be respected, and national reconciliation must be ensured. And why, for example, Spanish people can put great monuments and write, "Here lies Spain." All of Spain, which fought on different sides of the barricade, which sometimes fought among themselves, but is now a proud independent country. Why do we honor the veterans of the Great Motherland never find the strength to honor and honor the veterans of the Ukrainian rebel army and to admit that their courageous and sacrificial struggle on the two fronts is also necessary for Ukraine. It was needed then and is needed now. You know, it's fashionable to criticize President Yushchenk for what he seems to have done wrong. I was the minister of work in 2005. May 09 was 60 years of the Great Victory. President Yushchenka's first idea was to put on the Christian side a table of veterans of the Great Motherland who fought in the Red Army and veterans of the Ukrainian rebel army. It didn't work out then. Because political opposition has taken a firm stand against it. I'm dreaming, but can't you just be the next president? Can't the current President rise above ideological accusations and offer society the same idea of a weighty, high-level idea of national reconciliation, then it will be real Ukraine and real Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u66	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense, please. 11: 25: 12
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Vladimir Karpuk, a member of the “For Ukraine! “ I’m sorry. ” Despite the diversity of political views, the faction “Our Ukraine” and the parliamentary group “For Ukraine! ” voted in favour of the draft of this decree. And I want to say that despite these political differences, we have to do everything we can to understand the national idea and reconciliation. Because when I headed a delegation at the Victory Parade in Kiev in 2005, we had, in a delegation from a few areas, like the veterans of the Great Homeland War, including the Hero of the Soviet Union, the Flyer Antitype, and the soldiers of the UPA. And what's very important is that in communication, these people talked about what hurts them, hurt the future of Ukraine, there were no contradictions. But for three days we were very close to each other, and on the bus, there was no conflict between those people, as there was no rally in Kolka until the 60th anniversary of the Republic of Kolkow, with the participation of President Yushchenk. And there are concrete ways for this reconciliation from the MP’s initiative from the group “For Ukraine! “ Sveslav Mikhailovich Arzvetin, who financed the project, a monument was built in the village of Kolochava in the Inter-Igor region to veterans of World War II, where names were drawn and those who fought in the Ukrainian rebel army and those who fought in the Soviet army. Thus, such specific examples show that there is no difference in watersheds between veterans. And our duty is not to proclaim simply years of memory or years of veterans of war, for it is only in the last five years that there have been two parliamentary hearings on retired medical care for war veterans. What's done? It's the main reason for the financing. We recently passed a bill, the Law on the Priorities of Car Action. But if we don't actually finance, it's going to be years, because, without calling the names of the heads of all the governments that have been in Ukraine in recent years, they haven't really done everything for the veterans. That's why we're going to support this bill, we can vote on it as a whole, by changing it to the “Veterinary of World War II” and really doing everything we can to control it so that financial security is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u68	Thank you. The Humenjuk National MP refuses or will he speak? It won't? Then Městypan Uljana, the faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. 11: 28: 29
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u69	Mt. Uljana Mikolayevna, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, I will immediately talk about the fact that on our faction today it is decided to vote in favour of this decision, although this decision was taken after a very long discussion, there was a lot of “yes” and many “against” but one thought. And where were we? First of all, we are looking at our young generation today, and we are anxious to see that we are growing up or have not grown up as we would like to see generations in general. Because we're constantly losing values, and we're losing moral values. So as a teacher, as a human mother, of course, I am very sorry that those museums that we used to work in schools; the museums where we raised children taught them patriotism, their love for the Motherland, were largely closed, and they no longer bear their burden. So, of course, this is one of the examples. The other one. We know that by Victory Day and the year round the school had been fixed behind the graves. Today, sorry, the graves of war veterans who died in the war are sad to see, for both the monuments and the graves themselves are what we should truly be to all shame for doing so. That's why I think that this decision is necessary not by the veterans of the war that we think we accept, but by us, by those who live, by those who have some influence on the situation that has taken place in our country. If you've heard the figure is 1 million 800,000 veterans, I can tell you that only about 150,000 disabled people and about 240-245,000 of us are still involved in combat. So there's so few of them, and if I add that because the warman is at least 83 years old, of course, talking about whether or not he needs to do it doesn't have to do it. So when I say our faction's opinion, I say we vote in favour. But at the same time, talking about May 9th and talking about what we've done for the veterans, I want to say. Adam Ivanovich here said that we would be dealing with machine issues. But we've already decided that the people who have to, the veterans of the Great Homeland War, who have to be treated, will already be treated by the decision of our committee in hospitals for veterans who participate in the war when there is room for it. So I think a little bit of both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council, and we're all doing everything we can to pay tribute to those who deserve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The closing word is Vadim Koleschenko. 11: 31: 49
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am grateful for the lively discussion of the draft decree. This confirms that the issue is painful and painful both by society and by our veterans. That's the first one. The other one. I stress that the main purpose of this draft decision is to fulfil our international commitments to declare this year the veterans of the Great Homeland War. Third. Of course, the comments made by a representative of a committee of profile regarding the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance’s obligation to finance are correct and should be accepted and voted on. And all the other remarks that have been made, unfortunately, relate primarily to the Cabinet of Ministers Timoshenko and President Yushchenk. They did not fulfill their obligation to the nation and their obligation to the law. But I can assure you that the President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, will do everything he can to ensure that Parliament, the Parliamentary Coalition and the Government, working side by side, not only have they implemented this decision, but we have done much more than we can imagine. Because the memory of our society, the memory of our feats, the inventions of our grandparents, is the main thing that should unite us. I'm glad that Mrs. Mustard remembered caring for the graves. My grandfather was buried in Brest, in Kamyanc, and when I asked the local authorities, and what I had to do to get my grandfather's grave set up a little, they said, “There are no questions at all, two businesses and two schools have been installed behind your grave.” I came, but I could only get a divorce with my hands. Why don't we do that? Why does Belarus have the memory of the people, and we have this memory of something that depends on individual officials? Both this determination and our actions should be directed at the main thing: that the memory not only be on the day of the festival but constantly, every day, every minute. Because once again, it is what unites us that teaches us patriotism and nurtures our love for home. And our children, our grandchildren, must carry our memory with you not only for decades but forever. Because this is the main acquisition of our nation, our constituency, our independent mother Ukraine. Thank you for your attention, and please vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Now, if you'll have your attention. As far as decisions are concerned, Your Honor, I'm going to give you this kind of reasoning, and you're going to determine how to vote. If we want to adopt a document that sounds, we would have to adopt this decision with the following content: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to declare 2010 in Ukraine the year of veterans of the Great Homeland War 1941-1945” and a dot. All of this is taken into account, for they have written down: To turn to what is not a requirement, to take into account the situation. We are simply demolishing this solemn act, it would have to be accepted by both government and government, and the Supreme Council will work. So, I'm going to put it to a vote in accordance with the Rules, first of all this text, which is, if the Supreme Council supports it, it will support if I don't support the proposal that I just said. Please, I'm putting to the vote on acceptance as a basis, draft ruling, [[Registration number 5517]] 11: 36: 06 For 343 Taken as a foundation, what then? Adam Martinyuk, please. 11: 36: 15
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u73	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Let's support the Head's proposal that the first paragraph sounded exactly as he suggested. And yet, I propose to write another second point that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine develop specific organizational and financial arrangements to implement this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! We are declaring 2010 the year of the veteran of the Great Homeland War. The Cabinet of Ministers, honourable colleagues, have already developed a number of measures, not just decrees, we have declared an act. If we are aware that by declaring this act a country will honor its people, why should we accept these additional moments? Dear colleagues! Therefore, the proposal is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine take a decision in such a way that it shoots that decree. Draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declaring 2010 the veterans of the Great Homeland War. It will be necessary here: to announce 2010 in Ukraine the year of veterans of the Great Homeland War 1941-1945 and beyond: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to declare 2010 in Ukraine the year of veterans of the Great Homeland War 1941-1945.” I'm voting on the text that I just read for a draft ruling as a ruling. [[Registration number 5517]] Please vote. Here comes the vote. 11: 38: 19 For 335 I'll take the order. Please, Oleg Lazko. 11: 38: 26
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u75	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Obviously, the drafters of the bill, the draft decrees, they don't know the history. Why are we talking about the war of 1941-1945? What about the war that began in 1939? Did not humans die in 1939 when World War II began? Have citizens of the former Soviet Union not been involved in military events since 1939? What do we forget about the war with Finland, where Soviets died as well? What are we forgetting about these people, Halchin-Hol, Manchuria and so on? People are good, go to school and study history, and then propose draft regulations. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we need to talk about perpetuating the memory of veterans, not just of individuals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! Let's not have a debate here. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you simply and I beg you, if you consider it necessary, to make a draft decision. Dear colleague, I remind you that we are moving towards the development of the recommendations that have been adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine following the holding of parliamentary hearings, and we are making an appropriate decision. Moreover, it is in line with the decision taken at the interparliamentary level in the partnership of independent states. I don't rule out that we have to make a different decision and extend this time frame and talk about World War II. But then we need to make a proper draft of the document and accept it. Dear colleagues! Come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! We forked an hour when we could vote for five minutes. Dear colleagues! We are now working in a mode defined by the schedule for today. Dear colleagues! The draft Energy Land Act and the legal regime for special areas of energy objects are being reviewed. Rapporteur - National Deputy of Ukraine Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich, co-rapporteur - head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Bebazenko Valeriy Fedorovich. I was asked to put the bill to the vote for a reduced procedure. Please vote on this proposal. 11: 41: 17 To - 214. The solution. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich. 11: 41: 28
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! I propose a more specialized energy bill and a legal regime for special energy objects. What is the urgent need for adoption of the bill? The fact is, when Ukraine’s Land Code was adopted, article 65 of the Ukrainian Land Code stipulated that the order of use of energy lands was regulated by laws. The thing is, we all understand very well that the development of industry, the development of the economy, is impossible without the development of such a basic sector as energy. That is why there is an urgent need to resolve all outstanding issues, including the issue of special areas of energy, this issue is not defined with regard to restrictions on the use of land within special zones, the issue of damages, the lack of enforcement at the legislative level of rules on mandatory admission to land of all forms of property of businesses that operate. In general, the earth’s energy system is not justifiably bureaucratic and complex. That is why the law, which contains 8 chapters and 36 articles, provides for a clear and clear, in my view, a system of both separation and control mechanisms and, in my view, two "corestones" that will be able to give a significant impetus to the development, this settles the issue of serviette, both permanent and serviette, which can be set up for, an urgent service for some kind of work. There are also clear questions of responsibility and burdens and limitations, because unfortunately we can note that in our zones of burden and energy limitations the law does not apply, in large accounts you have all seen garages being built in environmental zones and in energy zones, other objects being built, without consent, and so forth. We tried.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u78	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u79	20 seconds. The law was done with experts from the Ministry of Energy, all the working groups went through, the profile committee would say so, and gave a positive opinion. I would like to support this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u80	Thank you, sit down, please. Bevenko Valery Fedorovich from the committee. 11: 44: 08
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! On October 20, 2009, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations reviewed the draft Ukrainian Energy Land Act and the legal regime for special areas of energy objects, registration number 4680. The adoption of the law is provided for in article 65 of the Ukrainian Land Code, according to which the order of use of energy lands is established by law and has become particularly relevant after the lands of agricultural destination have been planted, since most of their power lines and air cables are located on these lands. Accidental and repair work on these objects must be carried out taking into account the interests of owners and users of land as well as the companies operating these facilities. Some comments on the name of the bill, the definition of terms, the energy scale and the harmonization of its Land Code of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine on electricity, and the natural-intelligence fund should be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security and on Environmental Policy and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster propose to adopt a bill as a basis. As a result of the review, the Committee recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Energy Land Act and a legal regime for special areas of energy objects to be adopted as a basis. [[Registration number 4680]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u82	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Andrew Schlell. Let's get Michael Schershun ready. 11: 46: 15
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u83	Honorable chairman, distinguished national MPs, TV setters, benefactors! Of course, this bill could in principle be considered on a broader plane, but ultimately the issue is narrow enough. What does the bill mean? We now have to understand that the Ukrainian economy needs both the export of electricity and the development of new electricity lines. But all of this is because it's actually a new line of electricity that's really hard to build. Because landowners are territorial communities, and territorial communities especially when they own sweet lands near resorts, near seas, and these are ports and river ports, also attractive to a variety of land speculators, and, in fact, they are not able to build an electricity line. It's very simple. As a deputy, I have contributed to the construction of one of the roads in one of the circuit towns. And it was the owner of a house. The man who spent all his free time in the main work devoted himself to not allowing the road to be built because he crossed his property, his house. And eventually the road was built because we managed to take it a few degrees away. It works, it works, and man lives, practically, on this road. I don't think it was right on his part. So the state in this situation has to have a regulatory mechanism to carry out its own economic policy. In order for economic policy to be implemented, this law is actually necessary, as is the need for the Law on Social Land Exclusion, to build all the objects that everyone needs and can interfere with only one community and it can move forward and not allow the State to build the necessary object. So I urge you to support and vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u84	Mikola Shershun, the Lithuanian bloc faction, to prepare Gregory Smythuch. 11: 48: 36
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u85	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Let us be honest that so far the status of the land on which the energy objects belonging to such objects are located has not been determined. This has to some extent hindered the efficient use of land for the construction and operation of power plants for electricity and heat. In some cases, given the fact that certain areas of land are needed as sanitary protective zones around energy objects. Therefore, it is vital that this bill establishes the legal status of special regulatory zones for energy objects and rules for dealing with them. I fully support the definition of the rules for the use of sanitary and protective areas enshrined in the draft Law, because it is actually dangerous to place energy objects, especially heat and power plants in residential buildings, businesses, agriculture and so on. This can lead to human sacrifices in emergency situations. Yet, even in normal operation, energy objects are known to be harmful to human health, have a negative effect on the quality of food produced near these objects. In addition, it is important to organize the process of providing land for the deployment of energy objects dedicated to the entire chapter of the bill. So I think the bill can be adopted in the first reading. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u86	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions, please. 11: 50: 29
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u87	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, our committee supported this bill in the first reading, although there were different views as to the positions of this law. I would like to remind the National Deputies that according to article 65 of the Land Code in Ukraine it is established that the order of use of energy land is established by law. So this law is long overdue, especially that the land, much of it, is privately owned. And very large questions arise, or problematic questions, I would ask, they arise in order of energy development. And you know that energy in today's world, and more in Ukraine, is the basis of economics. And in order to simplify, regulate and give them a certain legal status, legal status, so that there is no interpretation in places, every city, village and so on, it was necessary to adopt this special law. Of course, there are questions in this law that will need to be taken into account in the second reading. And I think our committee will consider this. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to another problem. You know that the earth is now being set aside under objects of the barrier, including energy, these transmission lines, these substation lines, these are energy and other equipment that is being installed in a particular energy node, yes, they should be fitted on the basis of a competition. Please tell me if construction of an object is taking place, if there is a need to develop one or another energy because of its development, if there is a need for a replacement of resistance, etc. So please tell me how another subcontractor can and can take one of the subjects on competitive terms. This is simply not possible because the competition predicts if there are competitive possibilities for a project, for a given land. And these are objects that are being built in the country's energy supply system.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u88	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u89	They should appear, in my opinion, outside the contest. So I ask all my colleagues to support this bill in the first reading and during the second reading to rework it, it is a very important and important document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Please, John the Rabbit, microphone. 11: 53: 10
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u91	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party Honorable National MPs, a bill called for land regulation, not only those that occur in the operation of existing energy objects, but also regulates the order of land allocation. In particular, the bill provides that energy objects can be placed on the land of all categories. This means that in conservation lands, such as nature’s reserves, there is no doubt about it. And you know that nature reserves are completely removed from the use of agriculture, and they are prohibited by any kind of economic and other activity that is contrary to the purpose of the reserve. This is described in the Ukrainian Law on the Natural Command Fund. [[Articles 15 and 16]] So, I think in the second reading, we should pay attention to this situation and to this contradiction being removed, because over-liberalization is already going to do us harm.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of a committee on the adoption of the draft Energy Land Act and the legal regime for special areas of energy objects. [[Registration number 4680]] Please vote. 11: 54: 50 Z-322 Decision taken. So in order to follow formal procedures, I'm going to put the acceptance vote on the basis of this project. The Supreme Council will respond accordingly, and it will be removed from consideration. What? So I can put it to a vote on calling off this bill. Vote, please. I'm voting on a motion for a decision to withdraw Bill No. 1266. Please vote. 11: 56: 15 For 307 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the following draft law: amending some of Ukraine's laws to encourage regional development. [[Registration number 2333]] The committee made a suggestion to consider it as a reduced procedure. I'm going to put this proposal to the vote: to review the bill on a reduced procedure. Registration number 2333. Please vote. 11: 56: 54 For 193 Decision taken. Let's do it this way. It's a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. And after the break, we'll be looking at this bill. Otherwise we won't be able to look at it. I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 28 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning session. Please invite the Ukrainian National Deputies to the session room. I'll remind my colleagues that we have begun a review of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws, the project Alexia Vitaliovich Plotnikov. [[on the promotion of regional development]] [[2333]] Before the break, we voted in favour of reviewing the bill in short notice. Considering that Alexy Vitaliyovich is speaking, and as an author of the committee, he has the opportunity to present his bill within four minutes. I invite you to speak to the head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Plitnik Olesia Vitaliyovich. 12: 31: 42
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u94	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! You are aware of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the promotion of regional development]] This bill was introduced as early as April 2008 and has been followed accordingly throughout this period both in our Economic Policy Committee and in the relevant other economic committees and has some conclusions from the ministries and offices of Ukraine. The bill provides for the following changes to Ukraine's laws to stimulate regional development and to introduce a single customs tariff, for the first time. This is an exemption from the payment of import duties on imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of new equipment, equipment and assembly, except for excise goods, solely for the purpose of implementing investment projects in priority areas. This is expected to be done within 2 years. Next. The granting of TPR status to individual territories in which the average monthly wage over three years is not more than 89 percent of the average in Ukraine, and the unemployment rate exceeds 110 percent of the average in Ukraine. In addition, the extension of certain tax conditions to existing SEZs is a list, provided they re-register investment projects for implementation, which were made by 31 March 2005, which is the time when the practice of special economic zones and priority development areas was effectively discontinued. The bill draws the conclusions of the Supreme Council's expert and think tank, the conclusions of the government, the Ministry of Finance and other economic committees, such as the Committee on Budget Affairs. In principle, these conclusions are constructive, and these conclusions suggest a little bit of reinforcement, a little change. That is, considering even their certain criticalness, but constructive nature, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy has proposed that this law be passed in order to be adopted as a basis and be able to work, taking into account the relevant conclusions and already taking into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies. So please support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u95	Thank you, Alexia Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, I remind you, we're working on a reduced procedure. Please, there is a possibility of two "yes", two "against" to speak on the bill. A recording of the performance is being made. Please, show me. Oleg Zarubinsky, Lithuanian Block faction. Please, there's a microphone. 12: 34: 48
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill is designed to improve the investment climate, and that is understandable. A mechanism or instrument for this, the author of the legislative initiative has found enough traditional for many countries, by the way. In the past, Ukraine has virtually been abolished, with total cancellations, free economic zones, priority development zones. In our time, we criticized and did the right thing. And they forgot, when there was no proper attention, in fact, no attention to the priority development zones in China, which are such tens of them, in Poland. By the way, there are special areas in the United States where a simplified regime is aimed at investing in specific projects. Therefore, the very idea of the bill is certainly correct. What further points out that, in my view, it is a positive thing to see a monthly and annual management entity reporting on the implementation of an investment project in the territory. That's right. This is going to be the kind of control that I think is going to be largely to ensure that these zones don't become black holes in tax evasion. So when there's real control on our part, and monthly reports and a proper review of these monthly reports will make it possible to control that, I think, really, it might be quite effective enough to implement this bill, and an effective mechanism for investment in Ukraine to come. And above all, in those areas, in those areas where there's a problem of unemployment. So I think we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u97	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. 12: 37:00 A.M.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! I signed up for going to the rostrum because this bill actually has a profound political meaning. It is not easy to define, as Zarubinsky's colleague said, the basic legal means of creating and functioning a priority development area or determining the status of priority development areas and special economic zones have been broken, but the fact is that this bill allows us to remove the sharpness of these territorial contradictions, which have manifested itself in the 2004 and 2010 elections of the President. They have exposed the danger of such territorial polarization of the country. This is a very dangerous trend. And it is not surprising that some regions want a federal system that others call such desires separatism and the threat of territorial integrity. All of us will be able to reconcile them, all of us, only the economy, only the normal development of the economic life of our country, only the immediate restoration of the basic sectors of the national economy. I can call many industries in the Zaporozhye region that are closely linked to Western Ukraine’s industrial enterprises. Sadly, though, those industrial enterprises are no longer there. So they have to reorient and search and create and develop jobs by creating branches of their industrial enterprises in the South East. Now. And another circumstance. Now Kyiv speaks the language with the regions, remember, the father of the Pronie Digging that said before this trade: “You are one thing, and we are another.” And if, as long as this happens, until the regions learn to earn their own money and share them, we will continue to have the practice of flourishing the so-called “extra bulwarks”, additional budget exemptions that force each other to conflict between different regions and regions in general with the centre. Dear colleagues, this bill needs support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u99	Thank you. Two factions have spoken. None of the other factions insist on the performance? Oh, no? So, dear colleagues, I'm informing you that the committee is proposing to us to adopt the bill as a basis for this bill, the scientific and expert board is proposing a bill to be drafted. I therefore put to the vote in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the promotion of regional development, registration number 2333. Please vote. 12: 39: 58 For 166. The decision is not taken. What does the author of the committee suggest? Let's do it again. There's an offer for re-reading, we go to all of our colleagues who are actively working in the session room. Voting is announced for the re-reading of the Bill on Promoting Regional Development. Please vote. 12: 40: 49 For-189 The bill was rejected. The bill, the draft Act on Protection, the protection activity, the draft People's Deputies of Mališev are being announced for consideration. Reports the secretary of the Committee on Legislative Protection of Beváv Valéri Ananiyovich. Since he's a co-author with us and a committee representative, he has the opportunity. Oh, I'm sorry, we haven't voted yet. Valery Ananiyovich, if you had a reduced procedure, would you not have objected?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u100	No, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u101	Dear friends, there is a proposal to support the author and the committee representative to consider this important bill in a simplified manner. Please vote. Who's in? 12: 41: 48 For-161 The decision has been made. We're looking at a reduced procedure. As I've said before, Valérie Beales is representing the co-authors here and the committee, so he has the opportunity to present the bill for four minutes. Please, Valery Ananiyovich. 12: 42: 04
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u102	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The point is, the bill is extremely important. Why? Today, in private security structures that number more than 4,000 persons, there are over half a million people. This is three times the size of Ukraine’s Armed Forces today. Who gets there, how who handles the technical maintenance of security systems, how security is provided, starting with the physical person, and ending up as a host, is unknown. What is more, there are separate security structures that number a fully deployed military battalion. And there are structures that have four men with a statutory fund of 2,000 dollars, and they're protecting objects with multimillion dollars. That is why there is an urgent need at the state level today, because of the adoption of an appropriate law to regulate the state control system for the activities of such structures. That's why a number of national deputies - representatives of different factions - have drafted an appropriate bill that is being proposed for your consideration today. But the only thing I have in mind, Mr. Chairman, is that the lack of votes today will lead us simply, as it were, to not be able to vote in the first reading for this bill. Yes, I did: to report in more detail. So I'm going to report in more detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u103	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u104	So today, given the situation that I've set out for you, there are isolated instances of physical capture of property of the owners, opposition to the authorities of the state, low-quality services offered by the security structures, whose corporate interests, namely profit-generating, outweigh the quality and interests of the final consumer. Uncertain cases of involvement in the installation of technical means of protection for unskilled persons with a criminal background, especially those that are potentially vulnerable to decommissioning are the banking sector, the trade in precious metals and stones, and so on. The market for security services is suffocating from unfair competition, such as price dumping, but no monitoring body is, unfortunately, completely out of the picture. No private security structure has been tested for the cost of security services, such as the high cost of unpaid taxes and compulsory payments. The security branch has become a total corrupt money - laundering tool. I'll add this: we now have 4 and a half thousand security licenses in our country today, but only 3,000 are being implemented. Where almost one and a half thousand licenses are used, we don't know. I would like to inform you, my fellow Members, that this situation is now regulated only by the well-known documents of the State Enterprise and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. In addition, a number of important issues need to be addressed, including the rights and responsibilities of security personnel, their social protection, and the use of special ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u105	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u106	the response of technical means of protection. Thus, both the profile committee and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have proposed to adopt the bill as a basis. Moreover, there is no need for additional spending from the State Budget on the implementation of its law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u107	Thank you, Valery Hennadiovich. Dear colleagues, there is an opportunity to discuss. Please register “for” and “against” the bill. Thank you. Please show me who's ready. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions, prepare Oleg Zarubinski. 12: 47: 00
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u108	Thank you. I'm surprised, of course, that there are colleagues in this session room who signed up against it. They either do not understand what is going on in society, or they simply cheat to register. I have the right to evaluate myself, and I'm giving myself an evaluation that I did the right thing, that I signed up to support this bill. Dear colleagues, we have tried to implement this bill repeatedly in this session hall. He's all the time. We didn't make it. Why? Because there's a sharp opposition, extremely rich or rich structures that are now being used and used by these so-called security units that actually account for more people than the militia. Therefore, we are simply obliged to adopt this bill today in our first reading. But there is a point, and I would like to ask the author and the profile committee to take into account those observations, especially in parts that conflict with our anticompetitive competition legislation, which conflict with the Licensing Act. We do not need to invent additional obstacles to the formation of these structures, but we are obliged to do so in a legitimate manner. Because the former criminal, the former racquet, has now gone there. And these are all the latest thrills, especially the bookstores, which are the most insidious, and the capture of industrial enterprises, and the capture of the publication of the recent “Ukraine” -- all of this is accompanied by the support of armed people. This is unacceptable! No state in the world, no state in the world, can afford to have parallel structures. So we're going to get to the parallel army and other unpleasant things. So I encourage the session room to concentrate. Members who wanted to oppose, reconsider, support this bill, and vote in favour of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u109	Welcome to Oleg Zarubinsky's statement, the faction of Vladimir Litvin's Block. Prepare Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich. 12: 49: 17
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u110	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I was going to say that I'm really against it. Against the situation with the use of security structures in Ukraine. As far as the bill is concerned, I've encouraged him to at least read what he's called. It's not a law that changes what law, it's the first law on protective activity. This should be marked. So this is a system document. This is the first, I think, positive. One second. Why has it been so long since a law has been passed regarding the response of these legal relationships in the field of protection? Because let's face it, there are huge numbers of lobbyists, including those who influence decisions that are interested in unsupervised security activities. She's not law enforcement, she's really protective. Because people are hired, and in this case, even the wrong question, it's clear how criminal elements can be in protective structures. Even if it's not to consider what these structures are. These are private armies, respected colleagues. In Ukraine today, let's face it, there are private armies of a number of huge businessmen who are protecting their interests. How do interests protect their bodies? No, they don't protect their bodies. They realize their interests in raiding activities. If we see things on TV and we see things happening all the time, who's doing it? These guards, they're not controlled, they're not licensed anywhere, absolutely, I want to say again, uncontrolled structures. They act real real like warriors. So the desire to systematize this direction of work, of desire.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u111	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u112	Yeah, really, I'll finish. The desire for this to be coordinated and regulated by law, rather than by some incomprehensible instructions, is certainly a positive one. And it seems to me that we should eventually reject the desire and interests of lobbyists of individual structures and adopt state law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u113	Thank you. I invite Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, a faction of the Communists of Ukraine. 12: 51: 56
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I also pressed the “against” button of this bill. And now I'm going to explain why not? There is no doubt that what is being done in our society must be settled, without question, that illegal protective units that use illegal weapons in contravention of the laws and so on and so forth. This is beyond a doubt. But if you have read this law carefully, it seems that it is meant to settle, but to reorder it to just one structure. This is once again the lobbyist law, written from the position of one ministry and one structure alone, which is a department of the Ministry and is called the State Security Service. Everything is subordinated only to the State Security Service. Along with this, the drafters forgot that there is another specialized individual security agency in our state under the law, which is a special security agency, which has a special status as a central authority, this is the Department of Public Protection. Therefore, it will be possible to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill in the first reading, but it will be necessary to break the monopoly of the State Security Service. As one of the Departments of Internal Affairs. And I suggest that we set up the Department of Internal Affairs in article 10 of article 4, article 14, as well as the Department of Public Protection, before the second reading. And in the 11th article, to pass on certain functions of the Expert Council, article 20 is formed. Another observation. You'll have to say so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u115	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u116	And to answer the 20th article says that an expert board is being formed on this issue by the Cabinet of Ministers, I think I should add that the Council of Experts, where are the representatives of the Department of State Security, the Ministry of Internal Affairs? Let it continue to be approved. Let us therefore vote in the first reading, and in the second, we will necessarily break up the Ministry’s internal affairs monopolies and, more specifically, one of its small divisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, three factions have spoken. I also have the opportunity to make a brief presentation on “Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense” and “Julia Timoshenko Block”. Xenia Lipna from “Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense”. BUILD has the opportunity to express itself for a moment. Please, Xenia Lapina. 12: 54: 50
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u118	Kseniya Lipna, group “For Ukraine! “ I don’t know Dear colleagues, before deciding to support the bill, it should be read carefully. I want to point out that this bill does not have any new standards. Today law enforcement is licensed, today law enforcement is subject to control under the Licensing Act and the Law on State Control. Today, all the requirements that are written there are in licensing conditions. The problem is, but this problem is not really solved by this law. So any problem has to be solved professionally. What would be involved in this law? It would have to be about the essential conditions of activity and the substantial constraints that would then enter the licensing conditions, and then it would have been controlled properly. And as for the Board of Appeal, your honor, that's it. absolutely repeats the already available expert.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u119	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u120	There's an appellate board that's stipulated by the Licensing Act. In other words, there are no new rules in this law. That's why we're against his approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u121	Andrew Schlell, Yulia Tymoshenko Block, and we'll make a decision. 12: 56: 17
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u122	Thank you. In general, I believe that every bill that is submitted to the Supreme Council by the People's Deputies should contain nouvelles. Because when we're talking about the Kabmin or the President, who also has a reason to put bills into the session room, it's one thing, someone might have misread or heard. So in this situation, I completely agree that this bill doesn't regulate anything, it doesn't regulate anything, it just tries to put down the rules of the game that are basically beneficial to someone, and for whatever reason, it doesn't. emphasizes the possibilities of this expert appeal board. I'm generally opposed to the existence of structures that decide which protective structure or any entrepreneurial structure is good, which is bad, which does not work, because it's a good incentive to create a system of incentives, that those structures that are good at encouraging are always considered good. So this is a simple bribe scheme, so I think that under the circumstances we support this bill in principle, I don't see why, in principle, I don't see why, even though it's necessary to solve the problem, because it really is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I have to inform you once again before the vote, this is a bill of protection that was introduced by Malishev, Rizak, Beaz, Novik and Bugerak, or representatives of all factions. The committee tells us that we need to be based. The Science and Experimental Authority believes that we can take it as a basis and work between the first and second readings of this bill. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules and the Committee's proposals, I am voting on the draft Act "On Security Activities", please vote. 12: 58: 24 For 275 The bill was approved. Please, by the factions. Region Party - 139, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 86, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 1, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 19, non-fractional - 3. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we have two minutes left and we have before us a bill of principle on increasing responsibility for prostitution, but even in a reduced version we will not be able to consider it. We will therefore take a decision on this bill on the Conciliation Council, and now, according to the Rules, the hour is being announced for the various issues. Please prepare for the recording of the “Variance” hour. Please sign up. Please show active deputies who want to participate in the discussion. Oleg Laszko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. And before Oleg Valeriyovich approaches the rostrum, I want to inform you, my fellow dignitaries, that the hour of the “Variance” predicts the reaction of the people's deputies to the situation in the districts where they are anchored, in the regions where they work. Therefore, the mandatory participation of the national deputies is not foreseen. Because sometimes there's a debate about how many deputies are present, and this is the hour of parliamentary control of the people's deputies for what's going on in Ukraine. So, Oleg Lazko, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Prepare Andreia Paribia. 13: 00:22
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u124	Thank you. Oleg Laszko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. I would like to address the citizens of our trouble - stricken country. Yesterday the Supreme Council began an attempt at an anticonstitutional coup. The first reading voted amendments to the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, in particular to article 63. If two weeks ago, the chairman of the plenary called for a democratic coalition: “Give 226 votes for the coalition,” then yesterday, at the initiative of the Party of Regions, changes were voted on that rule. So it's a double philosophy and a double morality. If it's a democratic coalition, give me 226 votes. And if the anti-constitutional coalition is to illegally form a government, then the 226 votes are not required. This is where the Party of Regions begins to run the country. What do you get when you start with unconstitutional, illegal things? Oh, my God! But it's not surprising that the Party of Regions is operating on an infinite scale. It's their philosophy, it's their way of life and their meaning of work. It's not like they just can't. They can't make deals with people, they can't look for parity and compromises, they don't take into account what 12 million people voted for Timoshenko, and they actually expressed a sense of confidence to Prime Minister Timoshenko. They want everything now. I want to warn you, it won't work, you won't get it all, you won't get it now. Because the country -- it's not your fatherland. And you'll never get it in your mouth. I would like to remind the citizens of the country and Janukovic that he always ended badly: and in 2004, when, as Prime Minister, he forged the presidential election, and in 2007, when he was anti-constitutionally trying to raise a 300-vote coalition to change the Constitution. Similarly, the Party of Regions and its leader, Yanukovic, will end in 2009. You can't do unconstitutional things, obviously for the whole country, for the whole world. Therefore, it is in vain to urge the Party of Regions or Yanukovich to stop. We need to take decisive steps to protect democracy. Today what we have the opportunity to work in Parliament is our last barricade, we need to protect it, we need to protect the country, we need to stop the outbreak of the criminal oligarchy clan, which is racing towards power, which God does not give to the head. Not only will it be bad for these politicians in this room, it will be bad for the whole country, it will be bad for our descendants, we will lose our country, we will lose our independence!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u125	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u126	And all democratic forces must unite to save the country from the scourge of the criminal oligarchy clan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u127	Andrey Parubay, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." To prepare Valentine Matthew, a faction of Communists. 13: 03: 53
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u128	Ukrainians! Last week, last Friday from this rostrum, I reported that we were starting in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a meeting of signatures to all the European Parliaments, to the MEPs with a request, requiring that the paragraph of the resolution be deleted, which gives an assessment of the status of Stephen Bandera. [[Number 20]] I'd like to read the extract from this letter. “Dear Mr. Jerzy Buzek, distinguished colleagues of the European Parliament! We, the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, express deep concern over paragraph 20 of the European Parliament Resolution on Ukraine. We believe that this paragraph creates conflict and offends the feelings of millions of Ukrainians who have suffered victims, abuse, and depression for centuries because of their desire for freedom and independence. We urge you to look at paragraph 20 of the European Parliament Resolution. They have to note that similar statements by the European Parliament reduce the popularity of the idea of European integration among its supporters in Ukraine, who are patriotically configured and consider Stephen Bandera to be the mover of the Ukrainian nation.” I am proud to report that more than a hundred members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have signed under this letter. In fact, representatives of all the factions that are currently in Parliament except for the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. This is a huge testimony that Stephen Bandera is a hero to millions and millions of Ukrainians, and representatives of the Supreme Council from the Ukrainian people, who are delegated here to represent their interests, signed this letter to convince the European Parliamentarians, to study the history of Ukraine, to study the period of the national-liberal struggle of Ukrainians in the 1930s and 1950s. Step away from the influence of the stereotypes imposed by both Ukraine and Europe by Soviet propaganda. We believe that it should be a matter of honour for Europeans to abolish this paragraph of the resolution and no longer intervene in these matters, which relate exclusively to Ukrainian history, Ukrainian identity and the Ukrainian struggle for the independence of the state. Today, when this letter is delivered, we report that it will be sent today to the President of the European Parliament and to the MEPs with the signatures of more than 100 deputies. I would also like to point out that today this fact is particularly important because today 60 years have passed since the assassination of the leader and the head of the UPA, Roman Shuhevich and Taras Chuprinka, and today the patriotic Ukrainians have celebrated this date in memory of the struggle of the Ukrainians for their own state. On March 5, in the village of Bilogorch near Lviv, he was killed by the forces of the NCW, and this is another memory page for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u129	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u130	about how we have a Ukrainian state today, about our history that is going to be the foundation and foundation for our future. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u131	I would like to invite Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, a faction of the Communists of Ukraine. He is given the word of the people’s deputies Martinyuk and Gordienko, and he has a six - minute schedule. Please. 13: 07: 25
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Today, on this high court, I have been forced to face another case that has gained considerable publicity because it testifies to attempts at criminality and some corrupt circles to further destabilize the situation in our country. What is the specific point? On March 1st, an explosive device was detonated by an attack on the life of the village’s village head, Lisov Greenitsi, Hmelnicki District, Hmelnicki District, First Secretary of the Paradise Party, Grizzin Eugène Dmitrovic. Only by a happy coincidence did he remain alive. Yet the crime against his person, who by all indications has the character of a terrorist act, is a challenge not only to the rural community, to the Communists, but also to our entire society. By the way, this is not the first crime that has been committed in the last five years, both personally against Eugene Dmitrovitch and against the Communists of the village's original partying. In particular, on December 25, 2006, during a session of the Rural Council, “unknown” in paws, persons were certainly robbed of the village of Lisov Greenitsi in the aforementioned Grizzina. On the night of May 13 - 14, 2009, he was attacked by a carotid attack, resulting in a cranial injury. On March 2, 2008, a car was blown up with the deputy of the village council, a member of the Ukraine’s Chewichnik Company. Even earlier, when all the facts were listed, on July 30, 2005, after those days before the elections, the building belonging to the Chief Accountant of the Country Council of the Company of Ukraine was set on fire. On September 23, that same year, a devastating attack and beating were carried out by a member of the Chuke Company. During the period mentioned above, anonymous threats and demands to stop their corporate policies have been made by the secretary of the Shuprigan village council and other Communists, referring to their principle position on the most pressing issues of life in the village community. In addition, leaflets of provocative content, which not only try to discredit Communists, are constantly distributed in the village but also appeal to a physical dispute over them. What's that? The one conclusion is that open-air terror is planned. However, despite repeated appeals to law enforcement agencies, none of the listed crimes have been solved, especially the district and district prosecutors, the district authorities, and the district police. Why has this become possible? And because around the situation that has arisen around the attempts and illegal distribution of land in this village, which has reached its critical, I would say the limits to this time, a lot of interested people and, above all, officials of all levels. In the absence of valid legislation, the administration and the district council set up what is called the country’s country of the rural community, not taking into account the interests of the local people. This company is actively involved in the orange majority of the village council. This is why the Communists of the villages, which are in the interest of their fellow countrymen and the preservation of the Hmělnicky State, are not only under severe pressure from the district officials, but also from criminality. After all, the cost of hundreds of forestland — that, dear colleagues, about ten miles [10 km] from the district center — has already exceeded $3,000 in the black market. That's where the dog is. In this regard, a faction of Communists requires the Attorney General’s Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to respond promptly to the facts and to bring them to justice and to the strict responsibility of the leaders of the Hmmel district authorities responsible for covering the alleged crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u133	Cibenko Peter Stepanovich is invited to attend. To prepare for Moses Volodymyr Romanovich, who is given the word Jaroslav Kendzer. Please, Peter Stepanovich. 13: 13: 35
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u134	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine Dear colleagues! Dear veterans! I would like to take this opportunity to make a statement to President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine. Dear Victor Fedorovich! I have to address you as President of Ukraine, the head of state, the guarantor of the constitutional rights of citizens of the extraordinary, I would say, the most gruesome problem of saving the most disadvantaged part of veteranism. In just one week, more than 10 appeals were made to the Organization of Ukrainian Veterans, including the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sumski, Lugansk, Kirovogradsk, Kharkivsk region, the Suma Regional Organisation of the Social Workers' Association of Ukraine with a firm demand for the annulment of Cabinet Order No. 1417 of 29.12.2009, entitled “Some issues of the activities of the regional social services centres”. Since the beginning of 2010, more than 100 such appeals have been received by the Ukrainian Veterans. The Government of Ukraine, led by Timoshenko, has made such a “new gift” in paws unprecedentedly, in violation of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the rules of current legislation, by significantly improving the social protection of veterans and veterans of work and war, persons with disabilities who are provided with social services on a free basis, or with a salary of five per cent of the pension. The decree grants the right to serve exclusively single elderly and disabled citizens on a free basis. Lonely and disabled are right; it is sacred, and how to be those veterans who, without being alone or disabled, are far beyond the poverty line and are in dire need of such assistance from the territorial centers. It turns out everyone else has to pay for these services up to 200 dollars and more than 35-40 percent of their pension. In conditions where up to 70 percent of pensioners receive pensions of 600 to 700 dollars, and in a village that is completely dispossessed from the civilization of such citizens, more than 90 percent, that will mean total removal of veteranism to receive such services. This is a straight path to the further impoverishment of veteranism, which has worked for this nation for 40 to 50 years, and then to the speeding up of the extinction of this golden generation of our people. After all, it's a direct genocide of a man's work, whose hands have created everything in Ukraine. Given that, according to current legislation, the government's ruling may be revoked by the Cabinet of Ministers itself or by President of Ukraine's decree, I urge you, Sir Victor Fedorovich, immediately, immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u135	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u136	Immediately, take effective action to correct this, totally shameful and wild, situation. I would like to remind you, on the calendar of the anniversary of the 65th anniversary of the great victory over fascism, the year of veterans of the Great Homeland War. Once again, I ask you to put an end to this disgraceful situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u137	I invite Vladimir Moysik, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." To be prepared by Jaroslav Jojik, who was given the word John the Rabbit. Please. 13: 17: 15
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u138	Vladimir Moisik, a member of the “For Ukraine! “ I’m sorry. ” Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of national MPs, radio and television audiences, came to the highest national court and made me wonder which has no political colour. That week, I visited my family’s Carpathians and visited the town of Horrodka, where the town’s sugar factory, the town’s sugar plant, was located. The factory has existed since the Austro-Hungarian Empire, survived several warriors, and something incredible has been happening to the factory for the last few years. The factory had state ownership, then state ownership remained 25 percent, and 75 were dissipated. During these years, the factory had different names, different owners, but recently, respected colleagues, the factory has led to destruction. And I've had meetings with the labor force, and I've been on that factory, and it's now under siege, and some people are trying to cut and destroy the factory, and those people who worked, they're over a thousand factory workers, they're standing and protecting the enterprise. And here's what happened. The factory, the savvy parts, including from our hall, I'm called the Attorney General, took 27 million bracelets, like, under the development of a sugar factory. For the last three years, no sugar has been produced, no credit has been issued, and today, forum has sold the company All Metal, so you hear that there is no sugar or candy in this name, this firm that was just created last December, which is cutting metal by selling it to compensate for the damage to the bank. Of course, the City City and the District Councils refused to put land under the factory, these differences were not allowed in the factory, and I want to say that the factory of these three or four years worked, although the paper was considered a dead enterprise, produced 22,000 tons of factories last October, exported 7,000 tons underground from the factory, as if it were under loan repayment, but it was the export, although the head of the strike committee, the workers, they know the numbers of the cars, they know the people who exported the sugar. And I'd like, my dear colleagues, to draw your attention to you, to assure the citizens of the township and the inhabitants of the four districts of the region of John-Frankow, the two-three areas of Ternopil, which were being transported and sold there, and before that, it was being grown. Deputies, and I ask you to protect the only sugar plant on Prikarpata! There's no one on the Prikarpatha sugar plant. So I ask your support, and if that's possible under the Rules, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u139	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u140	To have the appropriate administrations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine make my statement as a deputy request to the State Tax Service, to the Pension Fund, to the Attorney General of Ukraine. And I can assure you, Mr. Carpathians. I will use all my political, legal experience to protect the interests of my countrymen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u141	Thank you. I'd like to prepare accordingly the questions that Vladimir Romanovich said, and we'll send these questions on behalf of the Supreme Council. This is Jaroslav Jojik, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next. 13: 21: 04
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u142	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian People's Party defines a grave violation of the Constitution when amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which leads to a dangerous precedent. The UNP expresses its deep concern over the efforts of the Party of Regions to form a coalition majority around the Constitution. It's a reminder. What is clear about the formation of the coalition is a clear explanation in the Basic Law and an explanation of the Constitutional Court, which defines the formation of the majority on the basis of factions. Let's focus. That Ukraine remains divided and that the vote during the last elections was held rather in principle against one of the candidates than in favour. The National Deputies of the Party of the Regions should realize that the social support of the President-in-Office of Ukraine is quite limited. To date, only 23 percent of citizens support it. That's how many voted for it in the first round of elections from the total number of Ukrainian voters. Attention is drawn to the voters in the vote on the Rules, the Rules of Procedure Act on the danger of a step that leads to a loss of legitimacy in the activities of the legislative branch of power and the creation of preconditions for a strong destabilisation in the general situation in the country. The President of Ukraine and the reasonable representatives of the Party of the Regions should realize that, in a situation of destabilization, social support is usually given to irresponsible politicians, rather than radically configured political forces, who, with a view to gaining power at times of dissatisfaction, will be interested in creating a social conflict. UNODC has repeatedly stated that its representatives will not participate in such an anticonstitutional coalition. At the same time, we will take steps and steps to prevent this most anti - Ukrainian version of the situation. That's why representatives of the Ukrainian People's Party are calling on factions to look for ways to form a coalition within the existing Constitution and bring this process to the public domain. The UNP has established a list of guidelines that can be premeditated before the negotiations on the formation of such a coalition, namely, a moratorium on issues that may create contradictions in the future coalition and society; a change in legislation that regulates language policy in the state; the repeal of the previous President's normative acts on honouring the memory of the victims of Holodomor; a review, recognition of the U.N.A. at the state level; the collapse of integration processes with NATO; the inadmissibility of transfer of GTS from state ownership; compliance with the requirements for the output of the Black Sea.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u143	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u144	For refusing to monopolize the power of one political power to form a government on parity grounds and transferring the Prime Minister to the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". UNODC believes that this will prevent Ukraine from being divided into black and white and fostered under the yellow and blue national flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u145	I'd like to invite Vladimir Yavorowski, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. Prepare Paul Silent. 13: 24: 56
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u146	Dearly beloved Ukrainian voters! First of all, I'd like to say, with this opportunity, we're starting to feel a little bit dizzy, and I'd like to thank the voters of the dirtiest election in 2004, during the 100th district presidential election, where I worked, for their ability to support a wonderful idea -- the center of Ukrainianism, because it's a central city that gave 59 percent for Yulia Timoshenko, in spite of the terrible struggle that was taking place there. [[City of Kirovograd]] I want to tell you, dear Kirovogradi, that I will be with you on Tuesday. And the election is over, and no one can blame anyone for playing in front of someone, but I will bring you a dozen million medical equipment, not me personally, on behalf of the government, to give you proof that you supported the idea of the Ukrainianism centre. Two of those I'd like to say today. First. It is said that every century has its own Middle Ages. In the worst sense of the word. For Ukraine, just for Ukraine, the Middle Ages are around 2010. If someone told me in the '90s or '89s, when we drove out of the High Council of Gasoline, which extremists chased to blow them up, held powerful rallyings would be often protested if someone told me that in 20 years, Ukraine would live to live like this and be ahead of it, I'd think it was some kind of horrible dream that could dream at all, frankly, even to a sick person, not a normal person. What are we? Let us live to see that, in fact, a significant part and most of the Ukrainian Parliament will be graced by the content of the Constitution, when everything will be completely rejected, and that the former President will applaud and say that he has finally “returned the situation” and that everything needs to start again. It turns out that for 20 years we walked around like these cologne horses after the war in an ax factory with our eyes tied together in the same circle. I'd like to have this opportunity, by rejecting everybody's passions, and I'm not there dependent on Julius Timoshenko and I'm not playing in front of her, but once again, I want to emphasize that the period that we held Ukraine is over. The coastals dropped their social standards, the Poles lowered them in the same way, by removing the benefits, we were in a period of incredibly severe crisis in a rickety country, and Julia Timoshenko carried Ukraine by the hand through a minefield without blowing up anywhere. We'll see what you'll do to the conglomerate. Who would have thought that there would be a communist faction in Ukraine in 2010? And it turns out they're going to hug each other and decide together. That's how you've fought against capitalism all your life. But I thought you should do it now. Because of this, the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” states that we will stand in defense of Ukraine, we will not allow them to fight over what we have achieved in these years with such great difficulty.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u147	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u148	We stand out, and I'm convinced that the maraz that today in the camp of national patriots who are engaged in, in fact, self-esteem, I believe that this is the kind of insolvent, very often anti-constitutional, inequity majority that is in the Supreme Council, it is consolidates us much more than the love of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u149	I'd like to invite Paul Mouchcan, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. The next is Vadim Koleschenko, who was given the word by the national deputy Glasunov. 13: 28: 37
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u150	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio listeners! Allow me, at the commission of the Board of Elders of the Ukrainian People's Council, to introduce to you the 196th anniversary of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk, some of the extracts of the address made by the Ukrainian People's Council. In a speech to the voters of January 21, 10, members of the Ukrainian People’s Council called on the voters of Ukraine to support Julia Timoshenko in the fight against attempts to change the civilisational choice of Ukraine, to turn our country into a self-sustaining, stateless satellite of the restored Moscow Empire. Unfortunately, our fears are becoming reality: the agents of Russia's influence from the Party of Regions and the open lobbying of its imperial interests call for the beginning of a rematching attack on the fundamental values of our people -- the Ukrainian language, the independent Ukrainian church, the Constitution's position on the temporary stay of the Russian Federation fleet in Crimea, the fate of the domestic gas transport system, the Euro-Atlantic external choice. It is a matter of honour and dignity for everyone who has no concern for the Ukrainian state that the organization of popular resistance is a peaceful political and social means against the attempts of Viktor Yanukovic and his team to change the course of Ukrainian history of the 21st century, to take away his cultural and historical values from our people, to trade in Ukraine's resources and wealth, to deprive it of its means of protecting its economic interests, energy security and to provide Ukrainian citizens with socio-economic guarantees of European level. For the first time in a 19-year history of an independent Ukraine, there was a time for serious trials, a time to prove to the pro-Moscow party of oligarchs who are masters of Ukrainian land. The time is determined to defend Ukrainian values, traditions, shrines, and the rights of Ukrainian citizens to the quality of life they deserve. Let us not allow the openly hidden enemies of Ukraine’s independence and democratic development to destroy the 1991 gains that our people paid a terrible price in the 20th century. That is why we invite you, the distinguished radio audience, to join the rally “Protect Ukraine! On March 9, at 11 a.m., near the monument Taras Grigorovich Shevchenka in Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u151	I'd like to invite Wadim Kolesnick, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next will be national deputy Eugene Kzarykov, a faction of Communists who are given the word of the national MPs Danilenko and Demyanchuk. Please. 13: 31: 40
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u152	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear voters, dear colleagues! On February 25, this year in Brussels, MEPs adopted a sign resolution that stated in paragraph 5 that Ukraine should comply with the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages and ensure the right to education in minority languages. And in paragraph 19 they expressed their concern over the fact that Victor Yushchenko assigned to the leader of the UN the U.N.A. Stephen Bander, who was actively cooperating with Nazi Germany as the National Hero of Ukraine. The European Parliament has formally condemned the decision of ex-President Yushchenk to assign Stephen Bandera the name Hero of Ukraine and is looking forward to its abolition by new President Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic. The sharpness of the adoption of the European resolution in Ukraine is also demonstrated by the fact that individual national media have failed to pay attention, in paws, and in many versions of the European Parliament resolution has disappeared altogether, in paws, a point in which Europe points to the need for the Ukrainian authorities to implement the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities to ensure the right to education in minority languages. Today's Resolution of the European Parliament is the summary of the long and short work of the Ukrainian public. An active stand against the policy of discrimination against Russian-speaking citizens of Ukraine, the heroization of Fascist textbooks was taken by the All-Ukrainian Civil Society Organization, the ‘Russian-speaking Ukraine’, the Russian-language ‘Russian-speaking Ukraine’, which has repeatedly addressed this issue in the European Parliament, the EU, the Council of Europe, the UN, UNESCO, the OSCE and so on. In particular, we have dozens of referrals, monitoring results, legal expertise in the Council of Europe and the European Commission, the European Parliament, the OSCE, etc. Two thorough public reports have been prepared on Ukraine’s failure to implement the European Charter for Regional Languages or Smaller Languages of the European Social Charter. The findings of the European country against racism and intolerance have already been negative for Ukraine. Under our insistence, the chapter on human rights is included in the new Partnership Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. We support several lawsuits against Ukraine before the European Court of Rights in connection with language discrimination. In summary, once again, the situation in Ukraine has caught the attention of the entire democratic world. Moreover, even the European Parliament was forced to intervene and take sides in the historical truth and rights of Ukrainian citizens whose native language is not national. And to those who are concerned, I say, Victor Janukovic, the President-elect of the world, will unite the country, parliament and government to get us out of the crisis, to which we have been led, so-called, national patriots. Notice, Janukovic calls for unity, while others call for war. Make your conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u153	Before you know it, I invite Eugene Kralkov, a faction of Communists. Since his colleagues gave him the word, he has a six - minute schedule. The next is Valery Kamchatny. 13: 34: 58
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u154	I want him to hear the speech. Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! My statement is due to the ideological upheaval, the information breakthrough of both the Ukrainian media and the international media. In the eve of the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory of our people over the fascist plague, instead of noting the contribution of prominent Soviet military figures, the military leaders of Malinovsky, Zhukov, Tolbuhin, Vatutina, Koneva, Yeremenka, the political scoundrel of Yushchenko personally assigned the name of Hero to Stepan Bandera. Bander, responsible for the deaths of thousands of Russian, Jewish, Polish and other nationalities. Bander is the founder of the Nachtigal and Roland battalions of death. As is known, on the day of the inauguration of the President of Ukraine, the European Parliament condemned the decisions of the ex-President of Ukraine, Yushchenko, on the assignment of Stephen Bander of the name Hero of Ukraine and looked forward to its abolition by the new leadership of the country. This is referred to in paragraph 20 of the European Parliament Resolution on Ukraine, for which the European deputies voted in Brussels on Thursday. The European Parliament also gave an in principle assessment of the decision itself on the substance of the assignment of such a title to the nationalist hero Bandera. The European Parliament expressed its regret that the successor of coffee lovers in the German concentration camps had assigned the leader of the organization of Ukrainian nationalists a title and said “to the person who had cooperated with Nazi Germany the title of the National Hero of Ukraine”. In this regard, the European public, members of the European Parliament of various peoples, expressed their hope that the new Ukrainian leadership would review such a decision in relation to its commitment to European values and the European choice of the Ukrainian people. I call on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not only for the sake of communist ideology, but for the sake of the memory of our fathers and grandfathers, the programmatic requirements of most factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, the joint platform of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanuković, and the Communist Party of Ukraine, in the eve of the 65-year victory of our entire Ukrainian people to support the initiative of the European Parliament. Also on the basis of the decision of the Veterans Council, on the basis of the appeal of the Herson Mountains Council, Luhansk Region. Council, Donetsk Region Council, Odessa District Council. Nikolaevsk Oblast the Council, the Supreme Council of the Republic of Crimea and the numerous councils of the district level, on the basis of a treaty signed by the leader of the left-wing bloc and the Compatriot of Ukraine by Petro Simonenko and the Party of the Regions by Viktor Yanuković, on the basis of a resolution of the European Parliament on behalf of the faction of the Compartium of Ukraine, requesting the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovich, to urgently and immediately repeal the decree on the assignment of the name of Hero Stepan Bandera. Hail the Soviet warrior! Praise the warrior, the winner! Hail the warrior, liberator! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u155	I'd like to invite Valery Kamchatno, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Get ready for Michaela Kulczynski, who is given the word Zinova Shkutak and Viacheslav Kirilenko. So it's going to have six minutes. 13:38:00
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We are all witnesses to the constitutional actions that took place yesterday in Parliament. By the way, it's very significant that at all the talk shows that we watched on TV yesterday, on all the media shows, all the thoughts that were expressed by the participants in these discussions, I didn't hear any of them supporting these anti-constitutional actions. On the contrary, criticism, criticism, criticism of illegal changes to the Constitution, criticism of illegal changes to the Rules. So it seems to me that President Yanukovic of Ukraine, who swore, including on the Constitution on this rostrum, will have very big problems signing these changes if they are accepted in the second reading. But I'm not talking about bad. Now on March 08, I'd like to mention more light, more pleasant things. I take this opportunity to congratulate all the women of Ukraine with this great celebration and I want to say that our main wife, Julia Timoshenko, this queue, this next life's test has been passed with a proudly lifted head. And one of the last actions taken by the government, one of the last decisions taken, is proof that the service of Ukraine’s interests, the service of the electorate, has always been the main one for Julius Volodymyryn. Words never diverged from action and further evidence that is why it is true care, genuine care for the health of the nation. I want to remind you of the decision taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to purchase at the expense of the Stabilization Fund more than 13,000 units of medical equipment in total, virtually 100 million euros. If you put it in a bracelet, it's almost a billion dollars. There's a thousand electrocardiographs here. There's a thousand machines for artificial ventilation of the lungs. It's extremely necessary equipment for our young moms, newborn babies, resuscitation tables, anesthesia equipment, baby incubators, transplant incubators, etc. And today this is really proof of who is speaking and who is doing and who is working. By the way, I want to tell my native electorate from my district that I am also a train from this list of hundreds of certificates for different equipment, and it will be handed to our district clinic in my District District, and to 26th district hospital, and to the fapams, and to the hospital of the native Kharkiv district. So I think it's the most important, most successful gift before March 8th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u157	Thank you. I'd like to invite Mikola Kulczynski. It's been six minutes, like I said. Next is Andrew Pavlovsky, who was given the word by the national deputy Steshenko. 14: 41: 20
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u158	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! For Moscow’s political holopas, for the holopas of Moscow’s cataclysms, there are and will be Communists, Ukrainian heroes have always been traitors and are unacceptable to them. And for Ukrainians, they will always be heroes, and Stephen Bandera will always be a hero, and his figure will always be inspired, and his character, his work will always inspire Ukrainians to develop and preserve Ukrainian statehood. This is a replica of the previous Communist speaker, not the previous one, but the previous one. Today, 60 years of age have passed since the death of the chief commander of the Ukrainian rebel army, Roman Josephovich Sukhevich, in battle for Ukraine. As anti - Ukrainian forces seize power, we honor this real hero of Ukraine. Roman Suhevich was a multifaceted man, an engineer and athlete, an entrepreneur who created the most successful Ukrainian advertising campaign, and a singer who performed concerts in the Lviv opera, while a courageous fighter against the pressures of Ukrainians, who spent two and a half years in Polish prison and concentration camp. Szuhevich was one of the organizers of Carpathian Sici, whose ranks in 1939 gave the Ukrainians the first in Europe a military reprisal to the Nazis and their allies who invaded the Carpathian Empire. However, the most significant is the role played by General Roman Shuhevich in the creation of the Ukrainian rebel army, which has become the largest resistance movement in Europe. 11 years from 1942 to 1953 the UPA - Ukrainian rebel army fought heroically against Hitler’s and Stalin’s occupation regimes. For more than seven years, Shuhevich was the leader of the army. “If I had an army like UPA, German boots would not trample on French soil,” said General Charles de Gaulle, future president of France. And the huge merit of the fact that Ukrainians without their own state had such an army is due to Roman Shuhevich. The UPA commander died as a war hero for Ukraine, dividing the fate of many rebels who went to death for the sake of future generations. Contrary to false propaganda, the truth about Ukrainian heroes and their struggle for the freedom of our people is firmly established every year. The independent Ukraine, for which the Ukrainian rebels fought, became a reality, and Roman Suhević finally received the highest title of the country, Hero of Ukraine. The Ukrainian state has a flag, coat of arms and anthem with which UPA soldiers fought over Ukraine. And as far as the fifth column did not interfere with the establishment of that nation from the inside, Ukraine will develop as a nation of great and worthy people. The glory of Roman Shuhevich, the glory of the heroes and the glory of Ukraine! And no provocation of the Ukrainian phobics, hidden and openly, will stop the Ukrainian people from going public. And the very provocation of the anti-Ukrainian forces, an act of vandalism against the memory of the U.N. Ukrainian patriots who died of martyrdom in the Gestapo walls during the German occupation of Kiev for 41-43 years, can be called what happened in Babin Yar recently: the criminals again burned the restored cross, which was installed in their honor after the barbaric destruction of summer last year. Then, on the night of July 14 / 15, on the eve of traditional public gatherings in the city, vandals overthrew the cross and smashed the granite plate with dedicated fallen heroes. At the request of the Ukrainian public, a criminal case was committed, and criminals were not punished. The efforts of the Olžić foundation to implement Presidential orders for public donations of the cross and the broken plate were restored in September of the ninth year, with sanctification and official discovery. And there's a new act of vandalism. Crime was reported on February 21, the tenth year of the rally and the parade in honor of the fallen patriots. Apparently, the perpetrators committed it the day before. The cross still stands, but it could have fallen upon people who were involved in the memorial work. Abusing the sacred memory of the victims of Nazism has been committed because the Ukrainian memory of Baba’s yoke has become an integral part of the worldwide context of the memory of the victims of Nazism. On Ukrainian soil, in the heart of Ukraine, Kiev has committed crimes against Ukraine, Ukrainian historical truth, and memory that want to be wiped out and destroyed by all means. A crime against the Ukrainian soul, which is tried to be despised and humiliated by others, has also been committed in the pursuit of the life and health of those today who respect their people, their history, and their heroes, and for whom this place in Baba’s Jar is a Ukrainian sanctuary. It is known that during the German occupation of Kiev, the Gestapo were captured and destroyed in Baba’s Spring by 621 members of the organization of Ukrainian nationalists who operated in underground and in conditions of war and occupation tried to lay the foundation for a reborn independent Ukrainian state. Among them was the loss of the Ukrainian poet, the head of the Ukrainian writer Olen Tellig and hundreds of other patriots, and in February 92 a memorable cross was established in honor of them and public action. The new act of vandalism should be considered, to the challenge of society as a whole, the key values that have been rejected and despised. As a challenge to society is that from the President's new president's website, the chapter on famine has disappeared. The Ukrainian society must force President Yanukovitch to renew the site because his disappearance is an excuse for the horror that Bolshevik invaders in Ukraine have caused. And I'm sure the Ukrainian people won't turn their backs on the Ukrainian path. Thank you. Mikola Kulczynski, group “For Ukraine! “ I’m sorry. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u159	I would like to invite Andri Pavlovski, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, to prepare Koržu Vitali Terentiyovich, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. 13: 47: 27
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u160	Dear fellow citizens! Andrey Pavlowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". We have all witnessed, together with you, how shamefully the Party of Regions together with its political satellites and individual traitors are trying to crush a valid Constitution, where a clearly defined order for the formation of a ruling coalition and government. All actions, if they are, can be counted as a coup d'état, and in such actions, excuse me, criminal responsibility is already coming. And I think that the patriotic, national-democratic forces should fight this and demand responsibility for such anti-constitutional steps. And I think that this has become a bitter lesson for our national Democrats, first of all, from the faction “Our Ukraine”, who, by helping Yanukovic, in a disgraceful two-day vote before the President's election, by amending the President's Election Act, then without waiting for the official declaration of the election results, by assigning the inauguration, voted consciously, playing Yanukovich. And what did they get? They got what they spit out at the secret arrangements that were before the elections between Yushchenek and Yanukovic, they're not going to form a coalition with “Our Ukraine”, and they're now going to be divorced, spitting, and, as they say in Donetsk, it's not a sin to divorce political thieves. And that's how they are treated as political logic, who knew who they're dealing with, who they can't make a deal with, and they've gone on to betray national interests and Ukrainian affairs. And as a result, we now have the power of an anti-Ukrainian criminal horde, which is foreign to all Ukrainian. So think, patriotic forces, now we all need to unite those to whom the road of Ukraine, to forget the old images, and to create a united, opposition, democratic front to this anti - Ukrainian authority. I also want to pay attention to the social aspects. Going down. Powers, the Janukovitch Party speculated on social demagogism, populism, made a lot of social promises, commitments, in particular the same Law on Social Standards, and promised us to raise pensions, wages by the end of the year at two or three times. Let them do so, not forget their promises. We are looking forward to this increase in pensions and wages. And I'm asking pensioners, especially those who voted for Yanukovich, to demand a two-time pension, as Janukovich promised. And if he doesn't, well, it'll also be a bad lesson for you that you can't trust such populists with the fate of the country, fate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u161	Thank you. I would like to invite Korža Vitaliy Terentiyovich, faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. The following will be the national deputy, Andrew Schlell. 13: 50: 45
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u162	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished voters, colleagues! For the third week in a row, we are seeing in the highest legislative institution of our state in the Supreme Council of Ukraine a phenomenon that is unacceptable to any democratic country, namely, anti-constitutional injustice that claims the highest rewards in the criminal world. In the eyes of the whole world, contrary to the Basic Law of the State and contrary to the established standards of parliamentary work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, what can be called a completely valid anticonstitutional coup. We see that, according to clear anti-Ukraine technology, certain national MPs, especially from the Party of Regions and their Communist partners, are clearly and consistently undermining the foundations of the rule of law and the just organization of life in Ukraine. I would like to remind you that the first operation of this criminal technology was the adoption of subtle changes to the Elections Act, three days before the election. At the same time, in full compliance with the anti-Ukrainian scenario, the then constitutional guarantor for the support of the so-called national patriotic advance team performed a brilliant operation under the code name “Against all”. The Court of Appeal then gave a corresponding pace, which virtually refused to follow democratic and legal rules on documents and evidence of falsifications of the electoral process and its consequences. Having launched, the regional-communist team, together with an advance team of so-called National Patriots, cancels its third operation to hold elections to local self-government authorities. Next. Without hearing the government's report, ignoring official information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the State Budget and on the socio-economic situation in Ukraine, the regions bring their own version of the state of affairs to the Supreme Council for discussion in Ukraine and joyfully express the mistrust of a government they have not even heard. Yesterday, on the initiative of the Party of Regions and for the support of the advance team, the so-called National Patriots, ignoring the Constitution, were adopted changes to the order of formation of the coalition. These changes to the Supreme Council’s Rules are essentially the destruction of a proportional system of representation of the citizens of the electorate’s interests to the highest legislative body of the state. In view of the current trades for governors, ministers, and other positions and zones of influence, it is clear that the process of creating a two - vector process is continuing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u163	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u164	The process of creating a two-pronged model of governance for Ukraine is continuing, where there is no room left for Democrats. In fact, there was an anticonstitutional coup in Ukraine, which took place in five stages. Recently, in this room, Viktor Janukovic swore on the Bible not to sign laws that severely violate the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, our political power draws the President’s attention to his oath to God and to the people of Ukraine. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u165	Thank you. I'd like to introduce you to Andrey School, the Yulia Timoshenko Block. The hour will be completed by various national MPs, John the Rabbit. 13: 54: 46
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the esteemed radio audiences, the television audiences, you know, you always plan a performance, but the previous speakers are pushing you to some distance from the main topic. Kulczynski, who spoke here recently about the outstanding Ukrainian actor Shuhevich, voted in favour of destroying Ukrainian language, destroying Ukrainian state, and voted in favour of destroying Ukrainian Euro-Atlantic integration processes. He voted in favour of the destruction of the Ukrainian state. But for him, he remains a hero. So I'm sure a man like him would shoot Suhevich first - definitely. That's why we have to call names here before we call them names.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u167	Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you more correctly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u168	Names, names, and dates should be honored, and we should remember what we do before they are honored. I think it's blasphemy to some extent. This is not the way to do and do things like this, to try to bleach our actions with the clean names of those who fought and died for Ukrainian independence. I, by the way, agree with what these names are called, but I resent it when they try to use it as a potter to clean themselves and their previous actions. I realize that it can cause dissatisfaction. But believe me, it was the biggest protest I've ever had, and I'm saying it now. Because we cannot fight Ukraine with one hand, vote against the Ukrainian Constitution, destroy Ukrainian language, Ukrainian statehood, and Ukrainian aspirations, European, including. And you got it. From this rostrum was another representative, Kolisnichenko, who spoke of minority languages, of what the European Parliament had adopted, that 20 resolutions condemning the assignment of the name Hero Stepan Bandera. By the way, when you were here and you were talking about 100 signatures, believe me, from Yulia Timoshenko's Block, at least half of those signatures were collected. Sadly, though, this problem does not solve it. Because the President, supported by representatives of the National Democratic Forces, who is campaigning to vote against everyone, is going to cancel May 9th, Hero. And you know that very well. And they knew when they were agitating, they knew when you called for a vote against Ukraine, aging to vote against everyone. They called for a vote not to go to the elections, for they said, “What the fishes said.” Now you have received such a “young one ” for whom you will be responsible for your whole life. All my short wonderful life, political, I mean. Take responsibility for that act of abuse against the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian culture you've committed. So keep that in mind, and do not forget. And I call on the patriots on March 9th to come to the monument of Shevchenk to honor the days of Shevchenk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u169	Thank you. I invite John the Rabbit to the floor and we will finish the hour for the question and the “Variance”. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, block "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". 13: 58: 01
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u170	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. The presidential election ended, it would seem, with political tension falling, and many politicians are doing everything to ensure that this does not happen. And what I've heard from the last of the speakers in the upper room, like you're protecting both the UPA and the Shuhevich and the others, you'd better not defend yourself like this, Your Honor, because you're actually acting as provokers, not as protectors, you're not seeing a real enemy, you're pushing away those who might be your partner, but you are. That's why my political power, the Ukrainian People's Party and many compatriots are concerned about this situation, because it's clear that the rivalry between the political forces is greatly weakening our state, regaining the efficiency of power, and that the outsiders of our country want to take advantage of this weakness, and we see today, in the performances of the left-wing deputies, in the performances of large businesses, how they want to realize the ideology of rematchism in Ukraine. And first of all, they want to dismantle the gains of the Ukrainian state in the area of national rebirth, national justice. And so today it's proposed to weaken the status of the Ukrainian language, so today it's proposed to stop the integration processes in the Western European direction, so it's proposed to continue today the presence of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation after the 17th year, it's said about the transfer of the gas transport network into other people's hands and many other things. So I would like you to understand that today all patriotic forces must understand that we are facing not only a fifth column against Ukrainian statehood inside Ukraine but also outside Ukraine. And what I would say is that the decision that we were talking about here about the European Parliament where we are so shyly asked to review the President's decree on the assignment of the title "Heroy of Ukraine" to Stepan Bandera, to review a number of other decrees, is to try to use international organizations, such as the European Parliament, to gain some advantage in interstate historical disputes. And I think we should ignore this resolution of the European Parliament. It's our story, and we don't have to give it to anyone. Because the Ukrainian people have committed national genocide, and we have a moral right, we have every right to claim that the Ukrainian nation must be restored in its national rights. And we're going to fight for real Ukrainian history. We will fight for the perspective of the Ukrainian nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-05-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the "Victane" question has come to an end. I want to inform you that the next three days are weekends in Ukraine. And I think there's a good opportunity not only to mention and greet our women, to congratulate our mothers, our wives, my grandmother, but also to read the works of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk, because we're starting to celebrate Shevchenk's days. And the creativity of our brilliant poet and ideologist of the Ukrainian cause will give us the opportunity to remember who we are during this difficult period of time. So I would like to inform you that the next plenary session will begin on Tuesday, March 9. There will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 9 p.m., and the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, March 9. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
