ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:37]] They registered cards in the 409 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National MP of Peace Ivan Mikolaiovich. Please welcome our colleague and wish him success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on June 29th of July 2nd, 2010. Six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place. 107 questions on the agenda have been considered: 26 laws and 19 regulations have been passed, 12 bills adopted on the basis, 1 bill has been sent to the Committee for Re-reading, 2 bills have been returned to the Committee for Re-reading, 32 bills and 8 drafts have been rejected; and according to the President of Ukraine's proposals: one law has been adopted, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 2 laws have been rejected; 70 parliamentary requests have been announced. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Wednesday for statements by authorized representatives. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, Your Honor, in accordance with article 35 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 30 minutes are allocated on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with announcements, messages and information. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Wednesday, yes. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Andrew Shevchenko, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Sergey Sobolev, BUT faction. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, the distinguished radio listeners! Last week in Ukraine was an unprecedented event, I think. So long as the decision of the Stockholm Arbitration was hidden by the authorities of Ukraine, it became a reality. I think the country has woken up in new circumstances, because never before in 20 years of independence has our country been in a situation where, at the expense of the country's state budget, an attempt is made to count on previous presidential elections, when, for the first time in the history of the state, the highest government officials and the highest officials representing the Ukrainian state's companies have testified in a court hearing against the state of Ukraine, well aware that these testimony, each of which costs hundreds of millions of dollars, is actually putting a burden on the state's budget. It is also unprecedented that the position of the State of Ukraine represented NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” at the request of the Government of Ukraine and without question the mandate of the President of the State. When NAK Naftogaz Ukraine admits that 11 billion cubic metres of gas is not the property of the state, even though the state paid the Russian Federation every penny for that gas, that was not enough. Next, NAK Naftogaz, on behalf of the State, recognizes an additional 1.1 billion cubic metres of gas to be paid as fines to the State’s commercial structure. But this too has proved to be limited. When $197 million is recognized by the State as being one that the State has to pay again and again to the same commercial structure, it has also proved to be insufficient, the State has already admitted in advance that if this commercial structure has problems, the state has already recognised that it will pay for these problems. And this is not yet final. It turns out that the state of Ukraine, namely, the government of Ukraine, which was commissioned by NAC Naftogaz, recognized that 30 years of leases of the world's best gas repossessed to the commercial structure of Rossukrenerego, is also a state's fault, and these gas dumps should be returned to this commercial structure. In our view, this is an unprecedented event. That is why the discovery of a criminal case involving damage to Ukraine is undoubtedly necessary. Only when Mr. Makarenko's former head of customs is going through this case, which is no longer allowed by lawyers in the 9th century, and those officials who have witnessed directly in Stockholm's arbitration against the State of Ukraine are not going to go through that process, and actually go to the signing of the peace treaty is a higher limit of cynicism, because when a criminal case involving the embezzlement of 4 billion dollars of direct loss and another 1.4 billion dollars, sorry, dollars of additional damage is an unprecedented case. And that is why our faction insists that four necessary issues be considered this week, which protect the interests of the state and directly attack those who have decided to base the state directly on the previous presidential elections, namely, that tomorrow the issue of the execution of decisions by international institutions in Ukraine be considered by Sergei Teryochinim. We demand that tomorrow's question be addressed in the form of a draft decision banning payments in such cases, unprecedented cases, which have been introduced by Mr. Zvaric's relevant draft decisions. We demand that tomorrow we consider the question of drawing on the responsibility of the Minister of Fuel and Energy, who is directly the curator of Rosukreenergo in the government. And the last. We demand that these decisions be considered tomorrow within the limits of decisions to be taken by the opposition. This makes it possible to resolve this issue once and for all, and to punish the guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u3	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We are all aware today that the Ukrainian economy is working almost to service foreign loans and a shadow that has unfortunately been created here in Ukraine. The Ukrainian market is occupied by goods produced abroad. And very much the attention that has been attached to Parliament's work today with regard to the adoption of fundamental draft laws, and in particular, I would like to refer to the draft Tax Code. The draft Tax Code has aroused society, and many today make critical remarks on the content of the Tax Code. As I begin, I would like to reiterate what I said to the Cabinet of Ministers on Saturday: I must immediately consider Tigipko's responsibility for what he did by introducing an imperfect and unprepared draft law to Parliament. Thus, Deputy Prime Minister Tigipco demonstrated his insolence and irresponsibility with regard to the State issues raised by the coalition: the implementation of the electoral programme and the promises we made to establish order in the country. What questions do I think we should work on today? The Tax Code needs to answer clearly the questions: real and how much tax pressure is reduced, how we will fill the budget, how we will today restore the responsibility of capital for the implementation of social programmes that must be implemented in the State. The faction of the Company, and on behalf of the faction, having already participated in the working group led by Klueva in the Cabinet of Ministers, has made clear and, in my view, understandable issues that must be taken into account in our draft Tax Code. This is primarily a progressive scale of income tax. What is happening today cannot continue. That is, some receive small wages and pay 15 per cent, others have huge incomes and also pay 15 per cent. In doing so, the solution to the main issue is today to reduce the social gap in income between a small group of those with enormous incomes and the vast majority of our citizens who have minimal incomes. Therefore, a progressive scale of taxation needs to be introduced today. We also propose the introduction of a tax on real estate today. In doing so, we make it clear that the flats privatized from the Soviet period should not be taxed on this tax, as well as on houses and houses built both in rural areas and in urban areas in Soviet times. We propose the introduction of a mandatory luxury tax, i.e. expensive goods that have to do with airplanes, helicopters, yachts, ships, Mercedes, etc. We suggest that the special tax regime for farmers should be continued, i.e. that they should leave the value added tax until 2017 so that they can develop. We also propose that what Tigipco has introduced be excluded from the taxation of the same deposits of our citizens. But to everyone, it is obvious and understandable that Mr. Tigipco did not propose how to create new jobs, but to lay down what at times makes our citizens at least today a family. We also propose that we continue to do everything to ensure that businesses operating in specific regions are taxed because many have done so: on the ground, they work and use resources from natural, water, environmental and central offices in Kiev, and here in Kiev, they pay taxes, and there local budgets do not receive anything except income tax and unpaid wages. We therefore propose that, in terms of the development of the Territories today, we use them to pay taxes where products are produced. We also propose to the Tax Code and to make proposals that relate to the creation of tax holidays for the real who will create jobs. But what should respected colleagues do? There is no doubt that resources should be used as much as possible to fill the budget, i.e. the monopoly on the same vodka and tobacco, the monopoly on gas and oil production, all of which should go to our specific budget revenues. And another problem. The tax code would not work if the country did not have order. These are issues of the shadow economy and the Tax Code, i.e. it is necessary to understand that the fight against the shadow economy must be very strict. We must today protect our manufacturer from the expansion of goods from abroad, and today we must not be smart in two or three years when we passed the WTO Act, but today we must put order in place and limit Ukraine's entry into WTO law. It is necessary to help the manufacturer today by what bank credit is set up: three per cent for the National Bank and five per cent for the commercial bank. Then we will have real support for the producer, then he will understand that the State so requires taxes, but also adequate assistance to ensure that the national producer works for the economy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u5	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Alexander Ephraim will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! In Ukraine, there are increasingly threatening trends, attempts to control all spheres of social life. Not surprisingly, independent media have become a target of its focus. The situation remained unchanged with the loss of 5 channels and TV channels. We created a temporary commission of inquiry on the facts of censorship and the obstacles to journalists ’ activities with great difficulty. The governing coalition resisted and tried to turn a serious problem into a farce, creating its own toy commission first, so that from the frequency of the opposition radios and channels without the responsibility of the authorities, we will once again be given freedom of speech within our own kitchen. After all the scandals, after trying to limit the language of some TV channels under the government’s direction, the last free segment of the information field — the Internet — was found. The cabinet of ministers wants to fine for the release of information products without registration, although the government knows very well that this will apply to most online publications that are not registered because of the lack of legislative regulation of Internet visions. The government is also trying to pressure civil society. An outstanding example was the scandal over the detention of the head of the Adenauer Foundation. There are some strange hints about spying. Clearly, all of this does not meet European standards of democracy or our obligations to the Council of Europe. And the world is being closely monitored for what is happening in Ukraine and more and more about the contradictions between the Ukrainian authorities ’ declarations and their actual actions. The observers of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe expressed concern about the weakening of democratic freedoms in Ukraine, primarily about freedom of speech. Hillary Clinton, U.S. Secretary of State, met with representatives of the Journalist Movement “Stop, Censors! ” The United States also stresses the problems of freedom of speech in our country. And Germany had to formally demand from Ukraine an investigation into the detention of a well - known analyst, Chancellor Nico Lange. We have an international scandal in an equal place. At the same time, one of the key states of the European Union is talking directly about possible problems to bring Ukraine closer to the European Union. Not only does this create the negative image of our nation, but it can also finally slow down the process of European integration. Moving to Europe is increasingly becoming a declaration. The government must demonstrate the real steps to restore civil liberties in Ukraine, and it can begin with the adoption of two bills prepared by the deputy of our faction. On the prohibition of revoking the license to speak and disposing of ownership of a television organization and on the cessation of the abuse of the rights of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. Without such coalition action, the whole statement of concern about freedom of speech will remain an empty sound. Without such steps, our state will not be able to seriously claim to be head of a security and cooperation organisation in Europe in 2013. Moreover, the signing of an association agreement with the European Union may be at stake, for in the European Union, the course of integration declared by today’s authorities is of fundamental value. And only a country that respects and protects them can be called democratic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u7	Alexander Eframov, a faction of the Party of the Regions, will be the next to speak by Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is nearing its conclusion. During this time, the Stability and Reform Coalition has adopted key laws: the country's budget and socio-economic development programmes for 2010, the Budget Resolution for 2011, the State Procurement Act, the Parliament ratified the strategic federation agreement, and we have ensured the adoption of the Law on the Fundamentals of Internal and Foreign Policy, without which we have sailed in an unknown direction for more than 10 years. It can be argued with confidence that, thanks to the constructive work of the coalition, the Supreme Council is becoming a place for political accounts to be reported to a body that adopts a legislative decision at the State level. However, it is not time to calm down. We are faced with new important challenges that were previously simply feared to begin. Ukraine is facing the inevitable reform that the previous authorities have lost 15 per cent of GDP in 2009 and the 100 billion gin debt accumulated cannot be compensated for with the 4 per cent increase in gross domestic product achieved by the current Government. We must not close our eyes and pretend that Ukraine is an island of well-being against the backdrop of the decline in social protection in Europe. We will have to make unpopular decisions that will have a positive effect in the next two or three years. At present, the task is to optimize the budget costs by protecting the most underprivileged citizens. Cooperation with the International Monetary Fund must be resumed in order to effectively implement reforms. IMF money through appropriate legislative mechanisms should not be directed towards eating, as had been done before, but rather to reviving the economy and maintaining the stability of the country. The bracelets. The resumption of partnership with the Fund will be a positive signal that foreign financial institutions are taking a positive view of the reform efforts of the Ukrainian authorities. It is very important for us to restore confidence in relations with Ukraine's strategic partners, such as the Russian Federation, the United States, the European Union, China. We have already seen the first practical results in this regard, but in such circumstances the role of the Supreme Council is not only to support legislative initiatives by the President and the Government, but also to develop its own visible reforms. The pace adopted by Parliament gives hope for consideration at the current session of a number of important bills. Economically, this is primarily the adoption of the Budget Code. With regard to the draft Tax Code, it should be further developed in the light of the requirements of the Head of State, the views of the people's deputies and representatives of the real economy. The very development and introduction of the Tax Code is a step forward in the reform of the fiscal system, but we must have a clear answer to the question whether the ideology of the code is consistent with the economic reform agenda. Only subject to a positive response, after substantial refinement, can the Tax Code be adopted by the Supreme Council. In addition, we need to adopt, in the final version of the Law on the Judiciary, the Universal Referendum, on elections to local authorities. The Local Elections Act is a mixed approach to the inhabitants of the territorial community and strengthens the responsibility of the authorities to the people. Having said "a" and having appointed local elections on 31 October, Parliament must say "b" to change the electoral system. We need to remedy the consequences of the anti-reform of the Constitution, which was quickly implemented in 2004, which has rebalanced the State machinery. I think we have a duty to consult the people on this issue. But above all, we must fulfil the promise made to our constituents and remove from the Constitution a mandatory mandate. I want to address our opponents separately. You were a bad authority, but your work as an opposition proved to be even less effective. Love of home and patriotism are not smoke chess, market insults and mindless blockades, but hard work aimed at reviving the State and improving the well-being of everyone. In due course, the opposition Government, formed by the Party of the Regions, introduced a number of bills to Parliament on the basis of which we began our work without distraction after we came to power. Today we are ready for an open and honest dialogue with you. All initiatives for the benefit of the country are ready to be considered and supported. Dear colleagues, I am confident that we are not in a constructive spirit in the future, which has been a prerequisite for effective legislative work in Parliament at the end of the sixth session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u9	Oleg Zarubinski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u10	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Respectable citizens, respected colleagues, now is the time to turn to those who can no longer accept populism, who have grown out of totalitarian perception, who will never allow others to think for themselves, who, regardless of anything, remains the patriot of Ukraine. Normal people are getting tired of cynical populism, stereotypes of secondaryity, imitations of work, culinaryness, and aggressive demagogies. We urge those who have not lost their sanity to face each other, to hear and understand their opponents, rather than to listen to the chiefs, not to be like Paul’s dogs in the form of colors of other forces. We refuse to speak with slogans. It is because of them that the most tolerant people cannot communicate with one another, they cannot understand that the main problems of Ukraine are the same, regardless of the region. Only a shift from binary thinking to black and white will enable society to understand that problems can be solved by putting them in the right hierarchy, not the one that is imposed on us. And among the most pressing problems of creating motivation, incentives and opportunities is the value of earning and living richly. The paradox, but the constant declarative fight against poverty produces poverty. The state is pursuing a minimum wage, forgetting millions of professionals. Skilled work was no longer appreciated in the country. Miserable donations of power, both yesterday and today, deprave the people. It should not be that being poor was economically advantageous. Metastases of lines and poverty are already killing the hard work of the Ukrainian, causing a disorder to Ukrainian society. Any equation has to disappear. Respect for work should be restored. Work should be valued because everyone deserves it. Poverty is not only an economic category but also a cultural one. When most are poor, it is the shortest way to spiritual degradation for all society. We will be able to stop the turmoil only by changing the moral authorities and morals of society, by restoring respect for professionals, to people of intellectual work. The People's Party has always supported and will support those who work, who think who knows who. Professionalism must begin with legislation. So far, the establishment of a clear hierarchy of legal norms and acts. An entrepreneur must be protected by the dictates of regulations and by the seductive powers of the controlling and permitting authorities, and the activities of the princes who interpret the law in behalf of their pockets are severely persecuted. A Ukrainian citizen can and should be rich. We reject all attempts to build our own image on the destruction of the people. That's why we proclaim enough to feed people with promises, to play with emotion, to finance inefficient projects. Each action must be reasonable, economical, predictable, with farsighted goals. Today's problems are important, but we can't and can't solve without regard for the future. Investment and progress are to be a key element of state policy in all areas. We're against colonizing our own people. It's against profit being paid at the expense of the labor force. More than ever in the order of daily restoration of the motivational component to increase individual productivity. I'm learning better, I'm working better, I'm earning more. Here's the formula for today. It is not normal for half countries to have benefits. We do not want honesty and dignity to be linked solely to poverty. No new verbal taxes until the laws that have been passed have been enforced in the State. We understand that our position will not be accepted by all. The unwillingness to think, to draw conclusions from basic things, to find guilty and traitors is this burden of opposition in society is still too heavy. But we are oriented toward those who, like us, have not lost the ability to think, to make their own conclusions, to those who do not feel that others should think for him. We do not demand sacrifices, but we realize that the way to the mountain is more difficult than jumping into a chasm. We are merely suggesting that the burden of the line and the responsibility for the development of Ukraine be dropped for tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. Regarding the proposals made by authorized factions, I ask you to prepare an appropriate commission. Regarding the suggestions made by Sergey Soboljeva, these questions are scheduled for consideration and consideration tomorrow, particularly in the agenda. So I think tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will determine what suggestions our colleague has made. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the issues set out in the July 6th schedule. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of the Procedure for the Issue of Permitted Documents. Reported to the Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Brodsky Mikhailo Juriovich. The head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement is reporting to Gretzak Vasil Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:29:21]] For 197 Decision taken. Please, Mikhailo Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u12	Good day, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We have introduced a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of the Procedure for the Issue of Permitted Documents. Today, the existing law provides very little for sanctions. We propose to increase, impose increased sanctions for violations of legislation by owners and officials, officials of the authorities. So let's see that the rise isn't very important. Although I think it will help prevent violations of legislation by owners and government officials. And we also set, well, for the first time, maybe the serious responsibility of officials for the baseless cancellation of a document in the form of a fine of 20 to 50 minimums that exist today. That's 850 dollars. The bill is designed by us, approved by the government and recognized by the President of Ukraine as one that is to be considered first. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Report completed. I am asking the co-rapporteur, the head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of the activities of Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich. Vasil Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! A law enforcement committee reviewed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences concerning liability for breach of the procedure for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature. Number 6262. The bill proposes a new edition of article 164 and amendments to article 166 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences with a view to improving the procedure for the application of administrative law for violations of the conduct of economic activity and for violating the procedure for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature by the authorities. The main task of the bill is to increase the number of administrative offences in the area of the issuance of documents of a permissive nature and the conduct of economic activity, which the draft act provides for administrative responsibility, to strengthen the influence of the State on the perpetrators of these offences, which in turn will lead to a reduction in administrative offences in the areas mentioned. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not find it unreasonable that the first reading of the bill requires that the subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further development. In addition, I will point out that the initiator of the bill in paragraph 2 of the Supreme Council's draft adoption order is a mistake because the Main Committee on these issues is called the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. The above error was removed by the Committee on Law Enforcement. Having examined the bill, the committee agreed with the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and supported Dercomposite's concern about its withdrawal, although the latter changed its position and requested that its previous letter be left without consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u16	After continuing its work on the bill, the committee considers it necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Ukrainian law be returned for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Xenia Leapina. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I don't think we should send this bill for further work, because the Supreme Council is able to work on this bill on the committee. We support it on the basis, but I want to draw attention to some of the inadequacies that are present in this bill. First, in fact, half of this bill is devoted to increasing the responsibility of operators, not at all government authorities, and only the other half sets up, I would say, a very soft responsibility, because the lifting of the baseless license, which entails the loss of business as a whole, will cost only 360 dollars to such an official. Well, you know, it's going to be a business like this, for 360 bucks, it's going to take out all the competitors. It's a totally unacceptable norm. Responsibility for baseless cancellations should be very and very important because it entails a loss of business as a whole. Therefore, we suggest that it be approved on the basis, but until the second reading, it is important to refine and increase the responsibility of the official.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u19	Vladimir Bondarenko's right to speak is passed on to Oleg Laska, Frakia BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u20	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Our faction will support this bill, which aims to increase the responsibility of officials for the abuse of their rights. But I would like to now, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, and please don't turn off my microphone, because perhaps I'll say no on the subject, but it's a very extraordinary and up-to-date question. Last Thursday, we voted in this room to hold parliamentary hearings on “Ukraine in the world”. And do you know the consequences of our voting this entire hall? The “Ukrainens in the World” Gallery was evicted from the Ukrainian House after we voted. Today all these portraits, photographs of which many of the outstanding masters of the modern and past. Today they're stacked up and lying on the same floor -- that's how the authorities responded to Parliament's decision to hold these hearings. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to give an order, first of all, to deal with this; second of all, bearing in mind the urgency of this matter and the purpose of preparing the mine. Parliamentary hearings to organize this gallery in Parliament's walls. We don't have walls hanging on four floors, let's hang up, maybe some of the deputies here will first see Jaroslav the Wise or Princess Olga, or Marshal Everyduba, or any other of our prominent contemporaries or ancestors. Please respond to this extremely scandalous event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u21	I ask the secretariat and the Supreme Council apparatus to study this idea and make appropriate suggestions. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the Code of Administrative Violations, the amendment to which we have repeatedly and not in a single legislative act here has been adopted, as is known, should be brought up in civil servants and citizens respect for human rights and freedoms, property, the strengthening of the rule of law and thus the relevance of this bill does not give rise to any doubt, but taking into account what we all know about, the huge bulk of citizens' complaints about not only business subjects, but just citizens who have had the misfortune to ask for permission from the public authorities. I'll get any permission today. Well, for example, those complaints that have recently come to me about building my own home on my own land are something that is on the verge of heroism. So certainly, when I make a proposal to accept this bill as a basis, I think we would be useful in addition to increasing the responsibility to make changes and to the normative instruments that now provide for the draconian bureaucraticly insufferable restrictions on getting any permission. In particular, try it, Mikhailo Yuriovich, today in the Borispil region to receive a state act on land. Or some other area near Kiev. It's actually impossible. Without mud or any other illegal action. The effectiveness of this legislative provision to ensure that abuse is not tolerated by operators and allowing authorities regarding the introduction of economic activity and the issuance of documents of a permissive nature is thus possible only in the case of an integrated approach to solving this extremely painful problem. So improvements need not only the Code of Administrative Offences, but also normative documents that would eventually simplify the savage permit system today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u23	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u24	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, there is some discrepancy between the title of this bill and the philosophy of the bill. Name: “Contraventions concerning liability for infringement of the order of issue of documents of a permissive nature”. And a large part of the bill is about punishing entrepreneurs, businessmen. Of course, we have to control them, but in this case, it seems to me that the quintension of this bill, the key focus in this bill, should be precisely about punishing those who are unable to develop normal business activity and business. Ukraine takes its place in the last 20 out of 180 countries on economic freedom, economic freedom. And to a large extent, because we have an area that is much larger than the area of public order of business, of commercial activity. Therefore, the very idea of this bill is certainly correct. It should narrow down the possibility of not issuing a permit. It narrows down the possibilities of corruption. And these points in the bill need to be strengthened in preparing for the second reading. And in general, the direction is right, I think we should vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Conclusion of the Committee: “Returning the subject of the right of legislative initiative to further work”. Conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office: “The bill is intended to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development”. At the same time, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of the Order of the Issue of Permits. [[10:42:16]] For 339 Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Act on Shareholder Associations of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on improving the mechanism of activity]] Registration number 6216. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Mikolaiovich, and he is also a co-reporter from the committee. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion on the vote to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[10:43:04]] For 217 Decision taken. Yuri Mikolaiovich, you have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that since April 2009, the Act on Shareholders' Associations, which we have adopted with you, has entered into force and has been in force in part. It must enter into full force for two years and will be fully effective for all shareholders since April 2011. Why did we make such a transition? In order to allow time for issuers, shareholders to learn about the law, work on it and gradually move on it. During this transition, from about 14,000 equity companies registered in our country, 2,000 have already passed into a new law, and the rest are not yet. In the course of this work on the transition of shareholders to a new law, the issues raised by the issuers themselves have been addressed by shareholders to the Gocommission on Securities, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the People's Chamber, to the Supreme Council. These issues need to be addressed in order to address the obstacles that exist in the transition to a new law. Individual issues, they are simply technical, clarifying better the language contained in the law. The individual issues raised by both shareholders and issuers relate to a mixed understanding of the treatment of a rule. For example, with regard to the free transition to a new law, this required further clarification by the Commission on Securities. However, in order for no official to want additional money from shareholders or issuers, such a rule must be introduced into the law clarifying this requirement. Or, for example, another requirement that exists in the existing law. Both the Gocommission on Securities and the Cabinet of Ministers, and I, as the person who has finalized this law, have maintained the view to protect shareholders from acts of misconduct, how? If there is notification of a meeting of shareholders with an agenda, with draft decisions and so on, the law now states that these notifications must be sent in writing with a description of the deposit and with a notification of the delivery. But when shareholders went to send such notifications in practice, it was found that the post office could send 200-300 messages in one day, but no more. And if there are, let's say 40,000 members, it's already a problem, so this rule needs to be changed, in writing, yes, the notification to the shareholder needs to be poisoned, but the description of the deposit and the notification of the offer, we don't think that's necessary. Or, for example, the question of participation in the observation boards of physicists or lawyers. Everyone understands that there are specific people on the board of observation who vote in particular, but if the shareholder of the Jurlic, he has a problem, he will put his representative on the board of observation, he will be voted on, he will be appointed as a member of the board, and then he will be fired, for example, from the enterprise, and should wait two or three months until you replace your representative. This is very difficult and creates problems for the shareholder himself. It was therefore decided to amend to allow the membership of the Nabseut not only for the physicists but also for the lawyers. Here's all those questions, they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u27	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u28	All these issues are addressed by the bill. And the Committee has considered it, and invites us to support it on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u29	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Stanislaw Arzewitt's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u30	The bill really simplifies the system of equity problems, but for the second reading, we need to think seriously, including the author, about what we are trying to do to protect minority shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, who else insists on expressing their position? I can't see. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations. [[on improving the mechanism of activity]] [[Registration number 6216]] The main scientific and expert office supports this proposal. Here comes the vote. [[10:48:40]] For 260 Decision taken. I'm announcing a bill of recognition that has become invalid, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees on assigning the name of Ukraine to a rocket cruiser. Reporter - Minister of Defence Ježel Mikhailo Bronislavovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on National Security and Defence, Mr. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[10:49:17]] For 210 Decision taken. Please, Mikhailo Bronislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u32	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished national electorate, the preparation and submission for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's project The Regulation is based on the need to create conditions to ensure the processing of options for the further use of the unfinished missile cruiser, in particular the possibilities for its further implementation. The designation of a rocket cruiser “Ukraine” was granted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 17, 1993, “On the assignment of a rocket cruiser to a factory. Project 1164, factory number 2011. Considering that the construction and acceptance of a rocket cruiser into the force of the Navy is not foreseen, it is considered appropriate to determine the above-mentioned decision in such a way that it is not valid. The draft decision of the Supreme Council on the recognition of such a contract that has become invalid was considered at the Cabinet of Ministers and at the meeting of the Committee on National Security and Defence, as well as by the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. It is proposed to approve a draft Supreme Council decision on the recognition of such a loss of validity, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the assignment of Ukraine to a rocket cruiser. [[Project 1164, factory number 2011]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u33	Thank you, please sit down, Mikhailo Bronislavovich. Mr. Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It's a psychologically difficult decision, but our committee unanimously proposes to support it -- to take this decision immediately as a whole. It's probably the only way out now, although for history in the transcript, it's worth noting that, 10 and 15 and 20 years ago, it was clear to the then military leaders, the fleet leaders, that the cruiser of such a class in the Ukrainian Navy would never be, ever, ever too burdensome, and for those tasks that need to be solved, it doesn't need to be. But we didn't have the will, the voice to tell it right away, and then we spent over 100 million dollars on maintenance and plus psychological losses. Nevertheless, I propose, on behalf of the committee, to support this bill and we hope that the Ministry of Defence will be able to resolve the issue of the implementation of another state, although it has not yet been able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There is a need to discuss whether or not we should put it in perspective. Is it? Please sign up. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u36	I give the word to Baldir Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u37	Yuri Baldirev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. The point is, we can't make a mistake in voting on this issue, because we've already made unrestrained commitments once and for a long time. And maybe we should have an example of our first President, Mr. Kravczuk, who gave up nuclear weapons and the second President, Kuchma, who cut down strategic bombers. And we need to act on the same key?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u39	Yes, Ruslan Knyazevich is transferring the right to speak to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u40	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I don't understand why the Russian Navy, if Ukraine sells them this cruiser, can't have a cruiser in its warehouse under the proud name "Ukraine"? It's like we're partners there, and we're kind of signing agreements, and the name "Ukraine" for such a big, powerful ship, for the Russian Navy, it's not going to work, and Parliament has to make a full decision on this. That's the first one. The other one. I want this issue to be an opportunity to discuss in general the problems of the Ukrainian Navy. The fact that the Russian fleet remains in our territory until at least 2042 does not mean that we should not develop Ukrainian naval forces. And it's not the best situation: the budget for the Navy cannot withstand any criticism, and it needs to be increased as much as possible, and it's our question and the demand for the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defense. The social protection of our Ukrainian sailors needs substantial improvement, and it is known to anyone who speaks to the swordsmen, the admirals, the commanders of the Ukrainian Navy and knows this very well, and the Minister of Defense. And we're ready to set up our shoulders here, because the Ukrainian Navy is and must continue to be a fortress of the Ukrainian state on our southern borders, and that's what money has to be for. And to pretend to forget it, we won't let anyone. Just like the smaller questions. There is a radio company called Bryz, which highlights the Ukrainian side of our business and the activities of the Ukrainian naval forces. The group “For Ukraine!” will be careful to ensure that no one suddenly wants to see this new radio company “Bryz”, which speaks all of Crimea in Ukrainian and protects our interests, closed. Because this is a fundamental issue not only for all Ukrainians, but also for the Ministry of Defence itself. All these questions need to be discussed. Maybe Vladimir Mikhailovich, at parliamentary hearings to dedicate the fleet, for example, in September.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u41	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u42	To discuss these issues at special parliamentary hearings, which will be devoted to the Ukrainian Navy, perhaps in September-June this year, and the appropriate draft decision will be introduced by the Group "For Ukraine!" and we ask for the support of all deputies in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u43	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u44	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party I think it's quite inappropriate for honourable colleagues to instruct today's Ministry of Defense about the Navy and all the issues involved to give to them, because it is a professional here. Moreover, people who apparently have the first entry in the employment book have the "national deputy of Ukraine". I think the minister is looking into the Navy. I see another problem here, on the right was the head of the committee, which is what Anatoly Grizzenko said is a psychological burden. I see another psychological burden than what he said. And the point is, obviously, this rocket cruiser is what everyone wants to sell. And they don't want to sell it called Ukraine, because then Ukraine will be sold. I think in today's situation it's a matter of a really psychological nature, and here we have to support military intelligence, not give it instructions completely, without understanding what the IMF is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u45	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u46	Dear compatriots, distinguished national MPs, I think it's a very symbolic question that a rocket cruiser that bears the proud name “Ukraine” on charges or sell, or, there, write in the ceiling, or cut in metal, try to reverse the decision of the Supreme Council. As before, the interests of the state of Ukraine in Stockholm courts have been sold in favour of the private structure of “Rosukreenergo”, as the national interests in this chamber have previously been expressed in the contracts of Kharkiv and elsewhere. The faction “Blank of the Yulia Timoshenko” in this disgrace will not take part and we will not support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u47	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. The committee proposes to make a positive decision on the draft decision. There are no other suggestions. The comments were only made by the national deputies of Ukraine. With this in mind, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Supreme Council decree on the recognition of such a one that I have lost the validity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the assignment of Ukraine to a rocket cruiser. [[project 1164 factory number 2011]] [[document registration number 6357]] Please vote. [[10:58:42]] For 247 Decision taken. I'm announcing a draft regulation on the withdrawal of certain bills on taxation. [[Registration number 6548]] Who will report from the committee? [[So what are we going to do? Put it to a vote?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to withdraw a number of drafts because they have lost their relevance or are normalized in other bills that we have adopted on tax and customs policy issues. Is there no objection? I'm going to put this to a vote. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an offer. Last week, we were looking at a bill, and we did a more faithful review of Bill 4601. This is about additional taxation of Ukrainian citizens by the percentages they receive on their deposits. Last week, we removed this bill from the review, which was over a year old. So I'm proposing that we include it in the list of this law because. To the list of these bills, which we take as relevant, because you and I have decided, in principle, that it is not appropriate to talk about taxation of population deposits today. So I'm proposing that Bill 4601 on additional revenue for individuals on deposits should also be included in the list of these bills. Last week, I remind you, we took it off the table. Our committee supports the proposal that it is no longer operational. Please make my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, there is such an offer to our colleague, to form an appropriate submission and a draft ruling from the committee, then we will consider it. We do not have the right to do so in a voice. So I'm voting on a proposal for a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling to withdraw some of the bills on taxation. [[Registration number 6548]] [[11:01:27]] For three hundred Decision taken. Thank you. I'm announcing a draft decree to mark the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Medical Society. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Karpuk. He's sick, isn't he? Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Yavorowski. I suggest you, Your Honor, this is a matter for consideration of a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? None. Please vote. [[11:02:07]] For 240 Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The Committee on Culture and Spirituality is proposing to you a draft decree marking the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Ukrainian Medical Society. I'll just remind you, and this is very important for the vote, that this is the drafters of this bill, the National Deputy of Ukraine Karpuk, is the representative of the Party of the Regions, the Head of the Committee for Health of Mrs Tetjana Bachtiev, Lilya Grigorovich, NUNS and Sergey Shevchuk, the Block of Yulia Timoshenko, if I'm not mistaken. That is, the representatives of the various political segments came together to commemorate the century of the founding of this society. I'll just remind you of a few words, a biography, so to speak, of this society in a very short, concise way. That in 2010 the Galician Medical Society was established. But it was not only Galician, it included Carpathian. This included the region of Cherniewets, and the region of Ternopil, and Volin. And there was a long, long time. She performed her very positive function of consolidating doctors in Ukraine. And on October 12, 917, the first All-Ukrainian Medical Assembly was held in Kiev. So it was derived from the local, regional territory of Galicina. It was introduced into the entire Ukrainian context. I want to remind you that in the 39th year, the Medical Society was eliminated by the Stalin regime. But in the 89th year, it was violently restored. Today it is a member of all the world’s medical societies. This society has performed a very positive function for Chernobyl, delivering humanitarian aid from across the border. As a result, such a determination must be made and marked. This is a very important humanitarian action. And I want to remind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u51	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u52	I want to remind you that by the end of 2009, Victor Yushchenko, the ex-president, had issued his decree on this. But I think it'll be a lot smarter for us to make a decision. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the only thing I want to ask for is a position here, and it's in other regulations, the National Bank, I've been addressed by both the head and the executive director of the National Bank with a big request, they can't print these medals every time. And because of that, I also think that you don't have to make anything at any time, because you can take it off, you can leave everything else behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss whether we will make decisions. It doesn't, does it? Please sign up, please sign up. Peter Simonenko, Viacheslav Kirilenko Lily Grigorovich, right? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u54	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, when we talk about marking a date on a national level, we think first of all about what is really a contribution to the development of Ukrainian society, of the Ukrainian state, of helping people, it's important and we can say what has been done. So I read this document carefully and I realized that there's nothing to talk about to mark at the state level at all, this is what I'm going to do. That's the first one. Secondly, when we talk about what happened and how it happened, it was the organization that was created in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, and it's hard to say at that time what task this organization was doing. And then I'd like to address you, my dear fellows, and I'm not going to call the names here, but this is a Kumovo project that some of you have just agreed on, including the national deputies, with my best men, to celebrate, what's called the century. No one has been there for centuries, no work has been done there, and in general we have many other social organizations that are doing help, including in this very sensitive medical field, which have really done a great deal, which has helped us to have a great crowd of ours and doctors, scientists, who we can proudly talk about. All of this involved a nationalist Sabbath, and today godfathers and saints from the orange team are trying to use government money in this way. And if they wanted to do that, they had to do it when they put this project in, that's in July 2009. Today, they want us to be responsible for the fact that they will spend more than their share of government money and not use it as an assignment. So I'm asking you not to support this project, and I'm asking you not to even reject these Kumow projects that the orange team is doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u55	Lilia Grigorovich. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u56	Lilia Grigorovich, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! You know, in the co-authors of the draft, it's the decision of the MPs, the members of the Health Committee, who represent all the factions: The Party of Regions and BUT, and Our Ukraine, and given that this is a collective project signed by the deputies of these factions, but since you're listening to what they've just been building, it turns out that there's no such thing as the States of Ukraine, and the health care has started since Semashko, and we haven't really had anything, since it started, right? Dear friends, I've been to Switzerland for 95 years and I see them celebrating Escalada. It turned out to be a Jubilee the last time the Savoy dynasty attacked the Swiss fortress. And the attackers were repelled by the fact that an old grandmother, when she heard that someone was crawling on the wall of the fortress, saw the attackers. And where those forces took off, they turned out a hot can of soup against the attackers' heads, and they repelled the attack. Thus, the Swiss are still studying the recipe for that soup. They're still learning the nuances of how it all happened. And we, a young Ukrainian state 20 years old, and a medical society operating in Ukraine 100 years old. It is not worth the people who have treated, treated our former fellow countrymen in the past who have done scientific work, who have worked in very difficult conditions, the only thing we can do to honor and say, yes, Ukraine 20, and the doctors' society 100, and that is why we have been and will be. It seems to me that rejecting such draft regulations is savagery. What's more, I think I'm a savage when, after the Ukrainians' support decree in the world as a project, they start taking pictures. Perhaps we will all find ourselves in the Supreme Council and hang ours on its walls.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, there are no more speakers there? I'm asking for your attention. I propose that this draft be put to the vote for adoption in general, taking into account such rights, given that this document has not been considered for a long time since 10.07.2009, that is, a year. I will read out the parts, and I ask you to listen carefully. First. September-June 2010. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. In September and October 2010, it was a celebration to celebrate at the national level of the century of Ukrainian medical society. The other one. Recommend to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, local government administrations, government authorities within a month from the date of adoption of this decision to establish an organizational committee for the preparation and implementation of measures to mark the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Medical Association. To develop and approve a plan of action for the preparation and conduct of a national marking at the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Medical Society. To anticipate the allocation of funding for preparations and markings at the state level at the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Medical Association. To ensure the release, the introduction into the order of the postage stamp and the postage box, the specialization of the artistic envelope dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Medical Society. Third. Recommend to the National Bank of Ukraine to explore the possibility of entering a coin and medals into circulation at the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Medical Society. Point four. To recommend to the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting that there be a wide coverage in the media of the media, marking at the national level 100 years of the Ukrainian Medical Society, organizing thematic television and radio broadcasts on this date. Control. Fifth. Control over the implementation of this decree is to be placed on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health. With all due respect. But I wrote this, not "leash out" but "to learn the possibility". So study the possibility. And he'll say, "There's no way." That's how tolerantly everything is written. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, given the clarifications I have just made, in an updated edition, I place the draft Decree on the State level of the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Medical Society for adoption as a decision. [[11:12:39]] For 175 The decision is not taken. We'll be careful. Please. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 103, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 53, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 18, “Afterfractional” – 1. The draft decision was rejected. Dear colleagues, I announce in my second reading a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4552]] Please vote. Ouch. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy's subcommittee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u58	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, is presented in a second reading of a bill submitted by the government, the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm going to remind you briefly of this bill. The bill imposes restrictions on leases, liquidations, conversions, mergers and distributions of objects prohibited from privatization, i.e. in a banned list approved by Ukrainian law, or in article 5 of the Law on Privatisation of State Property, which provides for their prohibition of privatization. A similar standard already exists for excise products that are not allowed to rent. And there's a norm for Naftogaza Ukraine, by complex, on the prohibition of liquidation, division, transformation and integration. The same rule applies to all objects prohibited from privatization. The Committee on Economic Policy introduced 15 amendments by Ukrainian national deputies. All of these amendments are supported, included in the correlation table and taken into account fully or essentially. The bill is prepared for the second reading, as well as the comments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I did it myself as a national MP by making appropriate amendments to this bill. They're about the technical and legal correction of some of the points and the fundamental question that the first-reading MPs and also the experts at the General Scientific and Scientific Administration have been given attention to. They refer to the issue of the reverse of the bill. My amendment to the Final Positions foresees the following formulation. “To establish that contracts entered into by this law for the rental of objects defined in Part One of this Act are in effect before the contract expires and are not subject to extension and conversion into a new term. This makes it impossible to break leases that currently exist but do not allow them to be extended automatically. If there is a desire of the authorities to extend the leases to the appropriate facilities, the Cabinet of Ministers should contact the Supreme Council to remove these objects from the banned list and only then transfer the lease. I think this bill will find support in all factions, because all the amendments have been taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, all the amendments to this bill are included. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. A number of comments to the bill were made by the Chief Legal Authority. With this in mind, I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, in general, as a law, a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4552]] [[11:16:52]] For 346 The law is passed. Thank you. Microphone, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u60	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I asked for the reason for the vote because the government has made the right proposals and we have also corrected them, where, in particular, we have written down such a rule as I would like the government to tell its ministries right now that all enterprises included in the list of objects that are not subject to privatization are not subject to merger, association, division, transformation, division or liquidation. I mean, right now in this month, obviously knowing that this law is being passed, under the form of reorganization, is being destroyed by Minister Boyke Institute of Energy Conservation. Think, please, where the base lies are 20,000 objects, 20,000 settlements, and everything else that designed the national program. This institution is transformed, destroyed, handed down into such a pocket that you can then do whatever you want with it. I'm paying attention to Mikola Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 218 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the clarification of certain provisions regarding the subset of administrative offences in the field of trade and services]] [[Registration number 2503]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on legislative and law enforcement matters, Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement brings to your attention the draft Law on Amendments to Article 218 of the Code of Administrative Offences prepared for your second reading. [[on the clarification of certain provisions regarding the subset of administrative offences in the field of trade and services]] The bill provides for amendments to article 218 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in order to determine the powers of the administrative commissions in the executive bodies of the city, village and village councils to deal with administrative offences provided for in article 156 of the Second Code. The Code of Administration for the Administration of Administrative Administrations only gives administrative commissions to executive bodies of district councils, while commissions with executive bodies of rural, urban, village councils are deprived of such powers. In addition, part two of article 218 provides administrative commissions with the executive boards to deal with all cases of administrative misconduct referred to in article 156. While part one, third and fourth of this article provides for punishment such as confiscation of property that can only be applied by decision of the court. By making such changes, we will eliminate some disagreements. The draft law included six proposals, four of which were taken into account in full and two in editorial terms. In particular, it is proposed to change the title of the bill, which is due to the fact that it is intended to make changes not only to article 218 but also to article 255. With regard to the proposal of three and five Ukrainian national deputies Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, which is proposed to complement part one and second of article 218 with the words “except in cases where reports of offences are made by officials of the authorities in the field of consumer rights”. But it should be noted that they are the right ones, but the proposals of the national deputies Behiz and Zdravnov, from the legal point of view, are more acceptable. So Yuri Anatoliovich’s proposals are taken into account in an editorial way. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a comparative table to the bill without notice. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, no one has any comment on the question under consideration? That is why I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 218 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the clarification of certain provisions on sub-sub-division, handling administrative offences in the field of trade and provision of services]] [[Registration number 2503]] I remind you that the Chief Legal Authority has no comment on this bill. Please vote. [[11:21:44]] For 327 The law is passed. I would like to announce a draft regulation on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "The Nuclear-Free Status of Ukraine - Real Guarantees", and the rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil. [[Registration number 5296]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Your opinion is proposed for the second reading of the draft Decree on Application made by our colleague Sergey Rafailovich Grinevetsky. The committee worked very closely on the project. I'll remind you, it was accepted in the first reading in the number of votes of about 400, we've examined in detail, each, absolutely every one of them, understanding that this is an international legal document, this is a statement that will in any case reflect the official position of the Ukrainian State. And so they worked closely with the author, and with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they checked absolutely every phrase, every thesis, every possible consequence of how the text of this decree would be understood. The main point is that we now see that they do not perform sufficient functions as the Budapest Memorandum, in connection with the provision of security assurances to Ukraine at the time that it gave up nuclear weapons. We see that there is not enough legal machinery to provide such guarantees. And although the Budapest Memorandum was certainly beneficial, the author made an absolutely fair decision that we should go to international organizations for this reason in order to create an appropriate legal mechanism, an international legal mechanism. We, together with him, have worked out every thesis, a document that allows the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to initiate, by referring to Parliament's will, the actual production of this position at the international level. In preparation for the second reading, a number of amendments were made, all taken into account, the one that counts as rejected, that's just a technical error. We're talking about the partial amendment of our colleague Goodyak, which is before the document's name is specified. And the warnings of any other structure, there are no other committees. Both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have unanimously asked you to support this bill in a second reading to enable our Ministry of Foreign Affairs to actively defend Ukraine's position in this regard, to demand from the states of the “nuclear club”, safeguards for both Ukraine and other non-nuclear-weapon States that officially possess nuclear weapons. In our view, this is a perfectly logical position and I think the support of the Supreme Council in this case can be unanimous. This will prove once again that we are uniting the efforts of both our Parliament and of the President of Ukraine, who spoke positively and insisted on this option, and the Cabinet of Ministers, and especially the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u65	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u66	Vladimir Mikhailovich, literally one request.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u67	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u68	Several times there has been a discussion of ratifications that are actually “burning”, 4 of them, 3, I think, submitted by the President, insisted as urgent, committee-worked, legal administration worked out, a request that could be expedited somewhere, they stand today after the Budget Code, which means that never, that means two hours of the night. Let's do it somewhere in front of the budget code, that's, like, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u69	If we don't get in over our heads, I think we'll be looking at ratifications in 14 hours. Dear colleagues, no comment on this bill? None. I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "The Non-Nuclear Status of Ukraine – Real Guarantees". Registration number 5296. Please vote. [[11:26:11]] For 345. Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Secret Act is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3664. The rapporteur is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u70	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, the honourable colleagues, our committee over this law, at the commission of the Supreme Council, which has been protocolly adopted, has been working for almost a year in association with the Security Service, even with the previous one, and with the current leadership, and has come up with a bill that, to our conviction, can be adopted as a whole. Most of the amendments are taken into account, and I would like to ask colleagues who have participated in the discussion at all stages of work, thanking them for their work, not insisting on what they have done. Our committee voted unanimously in favour of such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, no objection to the committee head's proposal? Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay attention to Amendment 3. Here I propose part three of article 8 of the law to be drafted as follows: “No reference to the state secret of any information, if the content and scope of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen are narrowed down, there will be damage to the health and safety of the population, which do not belong to the category mentioned in part one of this article, and their disclosure will be detrimental to the interests of national security of Ukraine. Persons guilty of violating the requirements of this article shall have administrative and criminal responsibility under the law.” I want to tell you that the case that was in the Soviet Union, when you wanted to, was a cover-up criminal case, repeated itself now, right next to each other, in the Makarenko case. And this is exactly the case where constitutional rights and civil liberties are narrowed down. Besides, now you see that, because of that, he can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u73	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my attitude towards Makarenko's arrest for the Rosukrenerego case you know. But I wish we didn't have to put these things together right now. In fact, it is absolutely proposed, but it is already in the law. Article 8 defines what may be a mystery and what may not be. Just as article 39 provides for proper responsibility. I am, if we have to vote on this amendment, but our committee is proposing that it be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, in order to meet the requirements of the Rules, I am voting on Amendment No. 3 of Yuri Karmazin. [[11:29:20]] For 105 No correction supported. Yuri Anatolyovich, are you insisting on your amendments yet? Twenty-four here is not included in your amendment. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u76	Thank you, Mr. Head. Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to pay your attention right now, and I'm very sorry that this amendment isn't taken into account right now. I would like us to return to Amendment 29, more faithfully, to Amendment 29. I'll save time, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I don't insist on any of my amendments. I'll just talk to you for two. The point is that part two I propose in the End positions to put it this way. After the law enters into force, to write: “To the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for two months to ensure.” I continue to count the legality and relevance of reference to those that contain non-printable information, for official use or secret all these acts with restrictive graphs, which do not contain specific information that may be classified as State secrets. We're the only country that's ever done such things.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u77	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, there is law, and there are other things to be done and done outside the law. Right, you have to keep looking at what's a secret, since Soviet times, and lower these griffins, and it's always done quarterly, six months a year. And when he was the secretary of defense himself signing along with the B.S.A., they removed everything that had been inconceivable for a long time. This is not the subject of regulation of this law, and this must be decided in a different order. If we have to vote on this amendment. The committee proposes to reject it. It is not a subject of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u79	Yuri Anatolyovich, you agree with the offer. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u80	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I won't be taking any other amendments. The thing is, it's a principle thing and I'd like people's deputies to understand what it's about. We now have several thousand acts of the Supreme Council, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers illegally have griffins that restrict citizens' access to them. Which violates both the law and the other. And I now disagree, absolutely, with this point of view, that this is the norm of another law. What other law, then, is it? If the Constitution allows citizens of Ukraine to access any information. But for the Constitution, we have, you know, even the governors are criticizing us. If the governor of the Donetsk region had done so in a civilized state somewhere, he would probably have been expelled on the second day. This is where they criticize the Constitution instead of swearing to it. This law must be foreshadowed, and I certainly believe that if not, let us make a separate decision. But I want to hear the committee's opinion that he's thinking about what's hidden from us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u81	Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u82	I can put the committee's opinion and my own, it's on your side. We think that everything that is socially significant and that does not pose a threat to national security should be open, starting with environmental issues, from the use of state property, including senior officials and so on. And that's where the committee works. But once again, if you want to settle this issue, it is not necessary to amend this law, which is called a secret, but it regulates other spheres, but obviously a draft of another decision or a request to the Head of the Security Service, as I am currently doing, by removing the phrase “secretly” or “service use” where it should not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. The microphone is still Yuri Anatoliovich. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u84	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I've drawn attention to the fact that this is not just about the head of the Security Service. The head of the Security Service here is a small, small number, so sixth only to everything. This is about the head of state, I'm addressing Vladimir Mikhailovich, to you, you must have realized this issue. I address and ask you to pay attention to the Prime Minister and the President of Ukraine, I have no access to them, I can't tell them anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u85	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 25 of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u86	The committee's proposing a rejection. [[11:34:06]] For-58
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u87	For 58. No correction supported. Therefore, there are all the reasons, honourable colleagues, to put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Secret. Registration number 3664. [[11:34:38]] For 274 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization and Mobilization (for the purpose of mobilization tasks, registration number 5069). The rapporteur is Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This document is also proposed by the committee as a whole, and the decisions were unanimously voted on by 11 members of the committee, representing all parliamentary factions. We worked with the Ministry of Economics for a long time. Here is Deputy Minister Gregory Ivanovich, who has personally done so. We've taken into account all the amendments except two that are rejected. I would like to ask the distinguished national MP of Sphenov, who has participated in the preparation of this document, not to insist on their amendments, as they foresee important, in his or our view, issues of budgetary and financial control. But the mobilization tasks are much broader. And that term absorbs its proposed amendment. I'd like to support you in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! According to unaccounted for amendments, someone insists on them? Just a minute. Before the vote, there will be a note. If there is no insistence on the amendments. None. Yuri Prokopchuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u90	Yuri Prokopchuk, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party of "The Fatherland". Dear reporter! Dear colleagues! You know, of course, this law would have to be adopted and improved a long time ago. But what turned out to be the norm. We have people in the President's administrations today who have no idea what mobilization is, but military service in general. And unfortunately, even in the second reading, this rule actually fell out of this law. And we're going to keep doing the non-scientifics who ran away from the Armed Forces, from other forms, from mobilization, and tell them how to do it. Unfortunately, this was not part of the bill. And I think it's necessary, as they say, to send for the third reading and to introduce these standards. People who have not been in the service have no right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u91	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I agree that there is a question of personnel policy, that is the question of the relevance of professional, business and other qualities to the positions that people embrace, and when it comes to administration -- this executive vertical, it's present here in the form of a coalition that supports all these decisions, they have to take that into account. What depends on the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces has been created by appropriate teaching units: Odessa and the National Academy of Defense of Ukraine, where appropriate training is planned for these people. I think that the government that the representative here is investigating these issues can also notice the pencil and the question of how to prepare those who are responsible for the Mobs in the administrations to plan accordingly. But it's not the subject of this law, it's the executive power and the daily little work. I'd like some backup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, the Chief Legal Authority, has called for a bill with observations and believes that it needs to be further developed and reintroduced for a second reading. The committee unanimously decided, as the committee head reported, that there was every reason to propose a second reading bill and, in general, as a law. I therefore put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Mobilization Preparation and Mobilization. [[about the mobilization task]] [[Registration number 5069]] [[11:39:08]] For 312 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on military service, social protection of military personnel, persons released from military service and their families. [[Registration number 2478]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Sergey Greenewecki. If the first deputy chairman of the committee formulates this proposal, then we'll be handling it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u94	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the committee requests that the consideration be moved to the next session.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u95	We need to vote or we do. Dear colleagues, let us then vote on this. Yuri Prokopchuk, please. Please put it to the vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u96	Yuri Prokopchuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Papačina”. You know, it's very strange for me as a staff officer, because when they go to the election, they promise a lot to the armed forces, the B.S.A., the border guards, for all of us, it's now consciously done that all of these social guarantees will be removed from the question, but they only know that they're passing bills, where they want to recruit officers and all those who have to serve, and they know that they're bullying the Armed Forces, over all the strong structures. And now again, it's completely groundless. I don't know what it's going to be like today for everyone who's standing in a position today who's protecting public order to turn their backs on them again, because there's no gold in their parents. We need to consider this bill and adopt it. Today, the Armed Forces are just falling apart.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u97	Mikhailo Chechetov. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u98	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, you see, before that, several of the bills passed by the committee's chairman, Anatoly Ivanovich Gritsenko, were voted on by more than 300 votes. This suggests that there was an understanding of the philosophy of the law, the need for it to be adopted in the wording for which it was voted. If there are no votes today, why should we break the law we need? Let us yet hold consultations, agree and make a positive decision and the content of the law, on the version of the law that will be voted on, which will be put into effect and which is needed today for those sectors for which it is introduced. This is therefore a normal process when consultations are under way, when harmonization is under way, and then there are 350-360 votes on board, which shows that Parliament is constructive and that there are most deputies who make a positive decision on behalf of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u99	Sergei Greenewecki, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u100	Thank you. Sergey Greenewecki, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, this law provides for fairly serious funding, and in order for the law to actually vote in a consolidated way, we believe it is necessary to adopt it after the adoption of the Budget and Tax Code, after the 2011 budget formula. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to postpone the consideration of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on military service, the social protection of military personnel, persons released from military service and members of their families. [[Registration number 2478]] Please vote. [[11:43:35]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! There's already been a motive. Now, one minute. The factions. Region Party – 156, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 21, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 16, Communist faction – 16, “Litvina Block” – 17, “non-factional” – 3. Bondarenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u102	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear ones, above all, the radio and television audiences! It has just been voted to postpone the introduction of a very important law guaranteeing the social rights of both military personnel and members of their families. Regrettably, there is a continuing trend in the actual destruction of the program with which the Party of Regions went to these elections, guaranteeing people in all directions such benefits as they cannot provide. Thus, many families were abandoned, thus abandoning the pensioners today, leaving the disabled. Today, all military personnel, those who are freed and their families need to understand: A party of regions is not going to do their program because today, they say, is not enough money. Why did you then lie to people about why you went to the elections with such programs — and today you give up your duties and obligations? You take a 15 billion loan -- give people the opportunity to get that money today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending subparagraph 4.4.2 of article 4, paragraph 4.4, of the Ukrainian Act on the Procedure for Repayment of Taxpayers' Liabilities to Budgets and State Purpose Funds (second reading (registration No. 2582) is now under consideration. At the same time, the chairman of the committee suggested that these bills should be postponed. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u104	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, 2582 and the next law, 4385 are very important laws. One dedicated to taking intermediaries in electronic reporting by taxpayers to the state, another dedicated to the rebirth of standard commission trade and the improvement of the situation in the light industry, in the light of machine construction, I apologize. But since both of these laws were passed before we were adopted in the first reading of the Tax Code, there were some differences between what we adopted in the first reading and what is contained in those laws. Therefore, at the request of the Committee, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, we ask that we briefly postpone consideration of these laws. We literally need a couple of days to reconcile their text with Kabmin, inside the committee. So the request that I don't go out for the second time is to move 2582 and 4385 to the other days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the motion to postpone the consideration of the draft Act amending paragraph 4.4.2, paragraph 4.4, of the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Taxpayers' Obligations to Budgets and State Funds. However, his position is contrary to the requirements of article 116 of the Rules. In this regard, I am voting on the postponement of consideration of the draft law, a reminder again, of the registration number 2582. Please vote. [[11:47:38]] For 321 Decision taken. The same proposal applies to the next bill. Registration number 4385 – amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the taxation of revenue from repurchase transactions for goods used]] I would like to vote on the postponement of this bill. [[11:48:12]] For 305 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on migration. Registration number 2232. The rapporteur is the head of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations of Yuri Gnatkevich. Please, Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! A second reading of the Law on Amendments to Certain Migration Laws, introduced by the Ukrainian National MP, Gregory Smitush, is under consideration. At its meeting on May 12, this year, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted in second reading and in general as a law. The bill received 20 amendments and proposals and again from a small number of people. This is from the national deputies of Martinyuk, Smitshuch, and your humble servant. 16 amendments included, 4 amendments rejected, these are mainly the amendments made by Martiniuk Adam Ivanovich and Smituh: 9, 10, 18, 19. They have been rejected in connection with the violation of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, according to which proposals and amendments to a bill that is prepared for second reading can only be made to a text adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a basis. Dear colleagues! Before considering this bill, I would like to draw your attention to such circumstances. Of course, the Smith Bill is positive, it makes it worse, it dictates different requirements, at different levels in terms of migration problems, it increases the responsibility for failing to perform a number of positions from other legislative acts. But this law had to be adopted conceptually and systematically. Unfortunately, I want to tell you that last Thursday we had another attempt to adopt the Law on State Migration Policy, the concept of State Migration Policy, and I remind you that in 13 years, this third attempt was a complete failure. I want to express the idea that we should send him not at all for the second read, but without pardon, I would say, send him to eternity without explaining anything to people without discussion, without discussion. There were two deputy ministers, a deputy minister of internal affairs and a minister of justice who had to say their thoughts to explain to society why not. I'm drawing your attention to the reasons, to my opinion, why is it that we don't need migration policy in our country? I think it's not just us that need it, because a lot of people see our state as a governorate. Why the Governors ’ Migration Policy? It's not good for the East or the West. This is a conceptual question, this is about the creation of the State Migration Service. It goes to us as my proposals, proposals from a committee that are not the result of our inventions, but as a result of round tables, discussions, discussions, parliamentary and committee hearings. I suggest you give me half a minute, Vladimir Mikhailovich! This problem was last Thursday, and today it is easy to solve it simply, to exclude from our options the very mention of the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u107	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u108	Thank you. Because the State Migration Service is, it exists, it's the 750th Order of the Government of Timoshenko. And today’s government has not withdrawn it in six months, discussed it, but has not withdrawn it. Option two. Replace the letter “D” with a large one for a small, state-owned migration service that takes away the problem in principle. Or simply replace the word “DMS” with “authorized government authority on migration policy”. [[State Migration Service]] So I have such operational information that they will not vote for this law today. As for the Chief Legal Authority's observations, you know, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I mentioned when I was an opponent in the defense of the dissertation, in the dissertation of five with a plus, I was looking for exactly what to get myself into. Here's my opinion, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u109	Thank you. Ivan Popescu microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u110	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, as the reporter pointed out, there are indeed some points that could in principle be taken off. But if they haven't been removed by this point, there's a proposition: re-read it and then we'll take all these moments off and vote in the room. And so we're just going to go through and spend time, and we're not going to solve anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u111	Let's make this happen, I'm going to put to the vote the first proposal of the committee to accept the project as a law. If suddenly the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support it, then the second sentence will automatically be put to the vote. I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on migration. [[Registration number 2232]] [[11:53:51]] For-137 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second motion for re-reading the draft Law. [[Registration number 2232]] [[11:54:15]] For 322 Decision taken. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u112	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You've noticed whether or not, by analyzing this table before this project, that there wasn't, or there were no amendments. We have now rejected the bill in no way, simply on the matter of some representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. I pay attention to the leadership of the Ukrainian government of Mikola Janović Azarov that they have thoughtlessly lost the concept of migration policy, which Deputy Gnatkevitch spoke about perfectly correctly, and we are now changing and destroying this law. So obviously, I'd like to look at those who fail, in terms of whether there's no "breathing" of migrants, of migratory flows, because we know, yes, we know -- don't laugh -- that such circumstances and migrants are falling apart, and in mass order. Obviously.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u113	Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u114	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, this bill, it is very necessary, in my opinion, for the authorities that deal with these problems to take care of these problems, because in fact this problem is and needs to be addressed. And unfortunately, this is another time that we haven't passed this law, which means we're going to have legal vacchanals in this regard and keep going. I have an offer, Vladimir Mikhailovich, considering that the Supreme Council will be working next Sunday, let's have the committee consider these comments, if they are. Although there were no comments from either the department or the committee on the second reading of the bill, it was unanimously supported. So let's put this together for next Sunday. If we do not resolve this issue, it means that we will only return to the problems that exist today in Ukraine in the fall. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u115	When the committee is ready to consider it, please let us consider it. I'll be right there. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. The rapporteur is Secretary of the Committee on Legal Policy, Vladimir Leonidovich Tolstenko. Please, come on, who's gonna report from the committee? Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u116	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy was discussed at its meeting on April 7, this year, and prepared for a second reading a draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. Registration number 4100. Let me remind you that the purpose of the project is to bring legislation into line with the Notary Act of October 1, 2008. In particular, Bill No. 4,100 proposed amendments to the 6 codes of Ukraine and 8 laws. I would like to point out that the comparative table has been carefully worked out by the members of the committee, the national deputies of the amendments of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. I will point out that the preparation of this project for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the second reading was also involved with the Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which proposes to accept this project without notice. It is worth noting that the controversial positions proposed, which are proposed, are proposed to introduce a new order in the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine for the extraction of materials from the Notarius archives, as well as those relating to the changes to the Criminal Code of Ukraine regarding interference with the activities of the Notarius. At the suggestion of the authors, Ukrainian national deputies Yuri Miroshnick and Yuri Karmazin were removed from the text of the project. Taking into account the position of members of the committee, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, on second reading and in general, the Law of Ukraine “On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine”, registration number 4100. As for the comparison table. In all, 11 amendments were made to the committee by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Among them: 5 amendments are taken into account in full, 1 amendment of the Ukrainian People's Deputies Committee, 5 amendments to the Committee's decision, 4 amendments to the People's Deputies of Miroshnicka and 1 amendment of the Ukrainian People's Deputy Yuri Karmazin. At the meeting of the Committee on April 7, this year, the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Miroshnichenko agreed to reject its amendments under the terms of number 5, 6, 7 and 9 of Jury Karmazin’s amendment at number 8 was considered without the participation of her author.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, no objection to putting a committee proposal to the vote? I am voting on the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4100]] There is no chief legal authority to comment on the bill. Please vote. [[12:00:29]] For 305 The law is passed. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes, that is, half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u118	A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the issue of operating permits is under consideration. [[resecond reading]] [[Registration number 3227]] He reports on Kseniya Mikhailna Leapina, deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u119	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this law is designed to give rise to two laws: the Fish and Other Waters Act and the Food Products Act, and the Safety and Quality of Foods Act, in accordance with the Law on the Principles of the Allowance System in Ukraine, and, in fact, a number of other laws have already been brought into line, for example, the Milk and Milk Products Act, which the government intended to bring into line. We've already brought it into line with another law. Therefore, we need to hurry with the adoption of this law. He's been relegated to second reading. Actually, part of the amendment is rejected, part of it is counted. Please consider the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u120	Yes, please, who, colleagues whose corrections are not taken into account and insist. There aren't any? Yes, then I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the issue of operating permits. [[Registration number 3227]] Please vote. [[12:32:53]] For 223 Let's see the factions. Who, please, is to be mobilized to go back to voting on the bill? [[12:33:29]] For 270. We're back. I am betting on a vote on the adoption of Bill 3227 as a whole, the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the issue of operating permits. Vote. [[12:33:57]] For-286 The law is passed. Let's move on to ratification issues. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is under consideration. [[Registration number of bill 0169]] Reported to the Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy of Makuch. There is a proposal to consider the issue of ratification by a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? Please vote. [[12:34:49]] For 207 Offer supported. The issue of ratification, all of the questions we're looking at are the simplified procedure for ratifications. Please, Vladimir Alexiyovich, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u121	Dear head, distinguished national MPs! You have before you the draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as well as the Letter of Supplement No. 1 to the Loan Agreement and Appendix No. 2 to the Loan Agreement. [[on the monitoring and evaluation of Minpolivenergo]] I want to point out that this project is a continuation of previous joint projects with the World Bank for the Rehabilitation and Management of Hydroelectric Power Plants. The cost of this project was $35.2 million and was successfully completed in 2002. During the 1996-2002 project, 16 hydro-aggregates were rehabilitated to increase their capacity by 86 megawatts. In addition, this project is a continuation of the next project. A project to rehabilitate a 106 million-dollar hydroelectric power plant ratified by the Ukrainian Law of 21.12.2005. During this project, the World Bank will finance the next phase of the rehabilitation of nine Dniprovsky and Dnistrovsk Power Plants during 2006-2011. Six hydroaggregates are projected to be rehabilitated by a total capacity of 2010 megawatts and a higher safety level of the Dniprovin GES cascade. The additional capacity of rehabilitated hydroaggregates will be 235 megawatts, which will actually be equal to another GES power in Ukraine. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law will provide an additional cost of $60 million for the financing and reconstruction of six hydro-agreements in 2010-2012 - Dniprovski GES N 2 - three hydro-agreements and the Kremencuckian GES - three more hydro-agregates. The repayment of the loan received by the UKO will be made at the expense of the company’s own funds. Costs to repay and service the loan in full are provided by the NCRE.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u122	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u123	All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u124	Yes, please, from the committee. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Taras Cnerwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u125	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting reviewed the draft Law on Ratification. Information was received from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Department of Fuel and Energy. We studied the decisions and positions of all the satellite committees. Including the Financial and Banking Committee, the Fuel and Energy Complex, the Rules and the MPs, etc. The conclusion of scientific expertise. All decisions are positive. Everyone's offering support. The committee studied the financial component in detail. This is a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 60 million below a low 5 percent. Conditions are convenient for Ukraine. There is no problem finding the funds to return. Because the reconstruction, as already reported by the Cabinet of Ministers, increases the energy efficiency of the power plants. And it's known that over time, the planned design capacity of hydropower plants is going to go down, because their productivity is going to go up, there's going to be extra costs, there's going to be a return on the basis of extra revenue coming from hydropower. The committee unanimously proposes to the Supreme Council to support this ratification. For Ukraine, it is absolutely beneficial in all respects, and in the economic and financial component of the lending system itself, in the repayment system, it is as beneficial for Ukraine as the first serious step towards reconstruction and enhancing the efficiency of our hydropower. Once these first jobs have been successfully carried out, either on loan or on the basis of their resources, Ukraine will continue to need this work. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u126	Thank you. Everything seems to be clear, except for Arjevetin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u127	Of course, this international covenant must be maintained. The only thing I'd like to do is make such warnings and recommendations. When people's deputies are offered proposals, I don't think all the people's deputies understand that they're librarians, interest on the use of librarians, plus the front. I think in the explanatory papers we had to argue, well, about this interest rate that will get the loan. I think it would be appropriate, maybe the reporters didn't say that our country should immediately pay $150,000 for servicing this loan. Such a norm really exists for commercial organizations, but when the state takes over, I think you could have bargained with the International Monetary Fund not to pay this initial contribution of 0.25 percent. But most of all, I have a point to a subcredit agreement. So this is a deal that's already going to be concluded, I understand, with the Ukrainian ministries, with those who get the loan in Ukraine. And here's the question: why do Ukrainian businesses that get this loan have to get it in currency and serve it in currency, because in Ukraine the only means of payment is the national currency. So I think all the monetary risks that the Cabinet of Ministers is afraid of, let them keep it, but Ukrainian businesses have to pay with a bracelet. Next. These documents do not state what margins Ukrainian companies will pay for this loan. Of course, a percentage of the initial contribution will be translated on their shoulders, and a percentage of the service to the International Monetary Fund, and what would be the margin in those documents, too. Therefore, if these are the tax conditions, as the rapporteurs pointed out, should be defined in these conditions of substandard and at least a limit beyond which the Cabinet of Ministers will not go, giving this sub-position to Ukrainian businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u128	I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. [[Registration number of bill 0169]] Please vote. [[12:42:10]] For 313 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention is under consideration. There's no such thing in the Rules. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to the Automated Processing of Personal Data and the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Persons is under consideration in connection with the automated processing of personal data relating to supervisory authorities and cross-border data flows. [[Registration number 0170]] Reported Deputy Justice Minister Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u129	Thank you very much. The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, is submitting a draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to the automated processing of personal data and the Additional Protocol thereto. This convention is very important in view of the fact that this convention allows everyone to enjoy the right to privacy in connection with the processing of personal data on this person. Furthermore, this convention is very important in view of the visa-free dialogue that continues between our State and the European Union. It also opens up our future cooperation with Evrost, Europol, and enables us to work actively together in preparation for the Euro-2012. Today, Ukraine has created all the legal grounds for ratifying the convention in view of the adoption by the Supreme Council of the Personal Data Protection Act. In this regard, we can ratify this convention, which was signed on behalf of Ukraine back in 2005. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u130	Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The committee also studied the convention in detail at its meeting. We don't have any warnings about her. Similarly, in the accompanying committees that had previously considered it, there is general support for it. The convention actually ensures our commitment to the Council of Europe. Second, it provides our internal constitutional requirements for the protection of personal life and the facts of individual life. While this is a framework document, the convention details the system, the system does not conflict with Ukrainian legislation. With regard to the adoption of this convention within the limits of the standards defined by the Final Positions, Ukraine has made several appropriate statements, where it has been determined that the body in Ukraine, which will be responsible for its implementation and implementation, is the Ministry of Justice. There was a clear record of the situation in which Ukraine fully assumed its obligations under the convention, under which it would not be carried out in the same way, the possibility of the convention, is private non - commercial and informal information, which is not required as required by the convention. That is, the full decision of the Ukrainian side's position taken in accordance with the convention's standards. The committee is asking for the support of this convention. This law on the ratification of Ukraine's accession to this convention, it was introduced by the President of Ukraine with a request to consider it urgent. That is why there is also a legacy of positions from the previous President to the present, and there is our fulfillment of our obligations under our international agreements. And for the last 10 or 15 seconds. I have, not on this issue anymore, but a request for another ratification that has not yet entered the Supreme Council. There was a lot of noise under the signed agreement on demarcation of borders with Russia. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has finished its work. She's staying somewhere in the President's Office. We're asking her to come to us quickly. We can look at it in the committee and in this session on days to come.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u132	Thank you. Thank you. Let's look at it, then let's talk. Why are we talking about what's not there? Shall we discuss it? None. I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to the automated processing of personal data and the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to the automated processing of personal data relating to supervisory authorities and cross-border data flows. [[Registration number 0170]] Please vote. [[12:46:55]] For 317 The law is passed. A draft Act on the Accession to the Convention on Trade in Grains is under consideration. [[Registration number 0166]] Reported by Deputy Minister of Agriculture Demczak Ivan Mikitovich. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u133	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished present! The purpose of the adoption of the law is to acquire a full membership of Ukraine in the International Grain Council, which was created in 1949. Ukraine was accepted as temporary members in 1998, but until last year we had a huge debt to pay our membership fees. Last year the government decided on the issue of membership payments, and in principle, we are now full members of the International Grain Council. The adoption of the law will allow us to be a participant, to take part in decision making, to have constant monthly information about grain markets, grain forecasts, and to produce further developments in grain and rice markets. This is to say that both importers and exporters are present, and in two - year sessions appropriate decisions are made for further work. And this allows Ukraine to grow even more and more the rate of grain exports. I ask the people's deputies to support and approve the draft Ukrainian law presented for your consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u134	Thank you, Ivan Mikitovich, please sit down. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u135	Dear fellow national MPs, dear Adam Ivanovich! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also studied in detail the bill on the ratification of the Treaty of Accession to the Convention on Trade in Grains. We heard the Ministry's position. The Minister of Agrarian Politics also asks the Supreme Council to support the bill. It does not contain standards that distribute functions that can somehow compromise or add special preferences to participants in this market. It allows Ukraine in an organization that today produces these very standards to have a decisive voice. Without this ratification, we're actually mute. Since Ukraine today does not have sufficient financial resources to pay large-scale contributions from international organizations, the issue arose at the committee meeting, we are confined to a small package of votes, but that voice will still be heard, we will have the right to make a decisive decision. And so it is very important for Ukraine that we come to this. The amounts to be paid were recorded by the Budget Committee; they are not significant. Taking all the debts into account, it takes up to one and a half million dollars. But for 2009-2010, our contribution is 325,000 dollars. They are to be paid from the State Budget special fund on the basis of the funds received from the provision of paid services by government bread inspection areas and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. There is no objection to the adoption of this bill. It's introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, supported by the government, it's also supported by all the committees. Designed at the right level. It does not conflict with the international arrangements Ukraine has in the agricultural sphere. The committee requests support for ratification of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u136	Thank you. Shall we vote? Bill 0166 is put to the vote – the Act of Accession to the Convention on Trade in Grains. Vote. [[12:50:58]] For 319 The law is passed. We are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Cooperation in the Control of Persons, Goods and Means of Transport, which cross the Ukrainian-Polish State Border, signed on 25 June 2001 in M. Kyiv. Registration number 0167. He reports: Deputy Foreign Minister Demchenko Ruslan Mihajlovich, prepare for the Krupil Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u137	Dear Sir, your head! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Amendments to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Cooperation in the Control of Persons, Goods and Means of Transport, which cross the Ukrainian-Polish State Border. The drafting of this document is prompted by the need to amend the Inter-Governmental Cooperation Agreement in the exercise of control of 25 June 2001, which would give the legal basis for the possibility of a common border crossing within the Ukrainian-Polish border and legally legitimized the stay of our control services in the territory of the Republic of Poland. As is known, in September 2007, the Polish side returned its control services to the territory of the Republic of Poland in response to the need to comply with the requirements of the Schengen Agreement for international agreements concluded by the Republic of Poland. Article five, paragraph 3, of the 2001 Agreement establishes the preferential status of citizens of Ukraine and Poland in relation to other citizens, including citizens of the European Union. In view of this, amendments and additions to paragraph three of the five agreements were made to the distribution of this item to the citizens of the European Union, which is in fact a condition for the continuation of the practice of joint control. The document is an important step towards establishing a reliable system of border management, in line with European standards and requirements. I would like to point out that the issue of the organisation of joint border customs control directly affects the further forward-looking development of the network of border crossing points at the Ukrainian-Polish border. The issue is particularly relevant in the context of Ukraine’s preparations for the final part of Euro-2012. By the 12th year, two international car crossings in the territory of the Republic of Poland are planned.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u138	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u139	The bill in accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts is agreed with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the Administration of the State Border Service of Ukraine without notice. The implementation of the bill does not require additional, financial or other expenses. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u140	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bastard, I can't see. Yes. They've changed the location. Stepan Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u141	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished National Deputies, Committee on European Integration at its meeting discussed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland amending the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Cooperation in the Control of Persons, Goods and Means of Transport, which cross the Ukrainian-Polish State Border, signed in Kiev on 25 June 2001. The amendments to this Agreement were signed on November 25, 2009, in Warsaw. The Agreement is called upon to make appropriate changes to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on cooperation in controlling persons, goods and means of transport crossing the Ukrainian-Polish State border. In connection with the implementation by the Republic of Poland of the recommendation of the European Commission to bring the Schengen Agreement into line with the international agreements concluded by Poland. The document is an important step towards joint border and customs control at the Ukrainian-Polish State border. In our opinion, assuming that the document will be valid will contribute to raising the level of protection of the state border, ensuring that the crossing points function high-quality across the state border and shortening the time of control. The committee is of the view that it is appropriate to ratify the agreement. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u142	Thank you. Shall we vote? I am voting on the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic on Cooperation in the Control of Persons, Goods and Means of Transport across the Ukrainian-Polish State Border, signed on 25 June 2001 in Kiev. [[Registration number 0167]] Please vote. [[12:56:56]] For 342 The law is passed. The chapter “Repetition of First Reading”, here we have two bills. With regard to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of new standards and radio technologies]] [[Registration number 2034]] There is a letter from the Transport and Liaison Committee to move its consideration to this session of the sixth vocation. Please support this proposal. Vote. [[12:57:46]] For 304 The decision to transfer to the next session has been made. Registration number of Bill 5108 of the Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons, Head of National Security and Defence [[on the size of pensions in case of loss of a breadwinner]] [[12:56:56]] For 342 The law is passed. Chapter “Renewing First Reading”. Here we have two bills on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of new standards and radio technologies]] [[Registration number 2334]] There is a letter from the Transport and Liaison Committee to move its consideration to this session of the sixth vocation. Please support this proposal. Vote. [[12:57:46]] For 304 The decision to transfer to the next session has been made. The registration number of Bill 5108 is the draft Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. [[on the size of pensions in case of loss of a breadwinner]] Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grishchenko. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to be considered. Please vote. [[12:58:31]] For 277 Copy that. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u143	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I may start with a conclusion. The committee proposes that this law be adopted in the second reading and in general. I, taking into account the thoughts that have now come together, including in the coalition, would like to transfer it back to the first reading as the author of the bill that was introduced earlier. Why wouldn't I want us to reject it right now and kill the idea of the law? Because the problem is not going anywhere. If, unfortunately, a civil servant dies, his wife receives a pension of 70 percent of the civil servant’s salary. If the same is true of the military, only 30 percent of his wages will be paid by the wife of the military in the event of the death of the military. That's not fair. Both serve the State. I have a feeling in the government that this document still needs to be redrafted. In this way, the coalition is not going to vote for him. So I have an offer, perhaps even without discussing it, to re-send the first reading. And our committee is ready, if necessary, with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, with any other ministries, but to bring it back to normal in autumn, so that the coalition can vote. I would like to support this decision, rereading the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u144	Thank you. Let's be wiser. He still stands for the first time again, that is, we will decide to move the draft bill to the seventh session as well. Please vote. [[13:00:25]] For 316 Thank you, 316. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no motive. I understand what you're saying. When we consider it, there will be motives. And those who say we're not protecting ourselves are actively pushing buttons to move it. So be careful. Yes, we passed this bill. The following is being considered, the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Implementing 12-year general secondary education in Ukraine: problems and ways to overcome them". [[Registration number 6653]] The author of the bill is Katerina Samoylik. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Dry, let's head back to Ternopil. [[13:01:23]] For 259. Please, Catherine Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! On June 9, this year, the committee held a fairly high-level parliamentary hearing on "Implementing 12-year secondary education in Ukraine: problems and ways to overcome them." Forty - five persons participated in the hearing. The participants in the hearings were experts, the creators of general secondary education in Ukraine. This is illustrated by the quality of the participants – teachers, school managers, university directors, almost one hundred district and district education managers, postgraduate practitioners, 39 educational and social workers, representatives of district government administrations, and district councils – 50 people. During the course of three and a half years, there was a professional, frank conversation. The representatives of all of these categories, as I mentioned earlier, took part in the conversation. From the speakers – and there were 27 speakers – five speakers for the further introduction of a 12-year term, all of them practically supported the transition to an 11-year term. You are all given a draft of recommendations based on a detailed analysis of the transcripts of parliamentary hearings, proposals from the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the National Academy of Teaching Sciences of Ukraine. Suggestions are taken into account. I propose a draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations “Implementing 12-year general secondary education in Ukraine: problems and ways of overcoming” as a basis. Once again, almost all the remarks made by the speakers are taken into account. We have only one dilemma left: to choose the point: 11 or 12 years of education. My recommendation project envisages a transition to an 11-year general secondary education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u146	Thank you. Sit down, Catherine Seed. We're going to think of Catherine Seminovna as the author, as the committee, because she's the secretary of the committee. The head of the committee is, unfortunately, ill. Let's wish him well. Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Please, the noun is John Mirny. But it may not be Peaceable. Yes, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u147	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine”. Honorable national MPs certainly worked on the recommendations. I would just like these recommendations not to be an empty sound to the government, to be used properly, and in particular, I would like to hear details, here obviously we are now wrong to ask the question of, after a reduced procedure, to consider. Because of what is called "enhancing the social protection of pedagogical workers". That's how much to increase? How many times do you want to do that? I'd like to make it clear that by increasing salaries, let's say, one and a half times a year. At least. Because you and I needed President Yanukovic's visit to Sevastopol to understand that, let's say, the military were completely defenseless there, and he said he would double the salary from October. Obviously this doesn't fit the budget. So let's do parliamentary hearings here on wage increases. Item 5. Take additional steps to improve learning of the languages of national minorities. What, though, was it not said that learning Ukrainian was completely at an inappropriate level? What, don't we see that we have people from the Supreme Council rostrum who don't know the national language that has passed through the board of the Central Electoral Commission? Because the Law on Status obliges you to know the national language. I imagine in the Romanian Parliament they would speak in a different language. I just didn't see it there. But this is where they want it to be. Because of this, both the installation and the question of unloading from secondary material. I'd like to talk to you about publishing textbooks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u148	Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u149	I'm done. Thank you. I'd like to talk about what we need to do about textbooks when we're writing in paragraph 4, then the manuals are to be of good quality. And so that we can provide for children, for those children who are provided, from provided families, not free textbooks, but for them to be available for free sale, at an affordable price. This means that the following paragraph should be written that they have some preference to have, not foreign, to enter books, but our natives to print here. These points, I think, need to be reviewed, strengthened and added to the Ukrainian language, and the protection of teaching workers, as a percentage, should be added or at least one and a half times clearly recorded. That's what I have to offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u150	Thank you. You took one minute. Davemuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u151	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Reforming involves a very serious dynamic. It's like riding a bike: you can't stop if you fall. But in Ukraine, it is very common that we take the first steps in reforming, fill our way and immediately retreat even further back than we were in our original position. The problem of this transition to the 12th and now going to the 10th river, of course our Bolsheviks wouldn't have allowed themselves to ask that question. So they found a Russian version, because it's very hard to get away from Russia, too, 11 years. Why? Because the reform of full secondary education was essential, the construction of very important tools. First of all, it's the tenth, twelfth grade vocational training of our students. The other one. They're trained as individuals. They must go out into a society fully prepared, ready in all respects to live in this society. The other one. It was a very important moment to enter European space. In Europe you will not go to university if you have only studied for 10 or 11 years. So our Ukrainian children have to study there for two years to go to university. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chinese in the United States are now studying 150,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u152	Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u153	Many thousands of them are being taught. Kazakhstan has decided to send children to the United States, Europe, and pay for their education. And we put this transition, we're going back as reactionaries, because we couldn't, our society, our government, our ministry, we couldn't solve the problems that reform was facing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u154	Thank you. Please, from a faction that has not been registered but has a guaranteed right, 1 minute Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I've only got a minute, so it's been a while. I have a transcript of the parliamentary hearings in my hands, and Catherine Seminevna said that of the 27 speakers, only 5 were in favour of a 12-year education system. But she didn't add what these 5s did in this way, I had a transcript, they said it would take 12 years in principle, but the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, which can be implemented in 150 years. So in fact, those who have a real relationship with education, with secondary education, understand exactly what this leads to. And this leads to the fact that today, from the ninth grade, those kids who know they're going to have to go to 12 years of school, get out of school, the better kids go to CTU, wherever they go just to avoid going to 12th grade, that's in urban schools. And in rural schools it's already been calculated, and the teachers know that in the 12th grade there's just no one to go to. Obviously, it's going to have to be in the 12th grade then to send all of these innovators who came up with this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u156	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u157	Who didn't put it together with public opinion. Because in some matters public opinion needs to be observed, and in other matters it can be said. So 80 percent of high school parents and teachers versus a 12-year-old system, what's this about?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will now determine the draft decree. Believe me, in a few years of sitting on this site, I have held not one parliamentary hearing, but such interested and active parliamentary hearings as parliamentary hearings from the problem we are currently discussing, I have not seen in this session room. So we really got to the point, as they say. People were really interested in the problem, for it affects virtually every family. And the vast majority of those who participated in the discussion confirmed the idea that we should experiment enough, especially since we're not ready for a 12-year-old learning system that we're going to need to spend over 6 billion dollars. This is one moment. One second. Those of you who have studied the Bologna System know that there are different requirements, but the requirement of how much learning is not there is, that is, we do nothing wrong, and we do not fall out of any process. That is why I am voting on the adoption of the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on: “Implementing a 12-year general secondary education of Ukraine, problems and ways to overcome them”. [[Registration number 6653]] Despite the headline, I emphasize, in the title 12 years old, but in the recommendations themselves, as the participants said, we leave an 11-year-old study term. I'm betting on the vote on the whole decision. [[13:14:18]] For 267 This is a very interesting vote. I'm asking you to show me the factions. Region Party - 164, “Block of Timoshenko” – 47, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 8, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 18, non-fractional – 3. And what comes out of the recommendation of the conversation that went there at the parliamentary hearings, we, a group of national MPs, developed this idea and prepared a bill amending the Ukrainian legislative acts on general secondary and pre-primary education. [[on the organization of the educational process]] [[Registration number 6518]] Both from the authors and from the committee will be reported by the secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, Catherine Seminovna Samojlik. It is suggested that the bill be considered in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:15:24]] For 258. Thank you. Please, Catherine Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u159	The bill is fully supported by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, with some comments from the Central Committee of the Trade Union. I want to say that our Chief Executive has made a point, but they are no longer relevant to the content, but they are more relevant to the issues that we will correct in preparing for the signing by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We propose to amend Ukraine’s legislation on general secondary education and preschool education to review the terms of full general education and the associated structure of school to eliminate the legislatively established standard for the marginally permissible total effort of students and the introduction of compulsory preschool education for older children. Among other things, you and I have already been through this together when children have been trained for school by a group where they are in play, where they are in different forms, but they have been preparing for school. I want to say today that high school is going through a disaster. After graduating from 9th grade, a colleague said, children don't want to go to 12-year-old school. Of the three classes, there's barely one class. A disaster for a school in the 10th grade, where 2-3 students go to the 10th grade. Why? Because in 10 years of conversation, not reform. All of this has turned reforms into total propaganda. The material and technology base hasn't been renewed in almost 20 years. No in - depth study manuals are available. And so what kind of profile school can we talk about? Better solution is needed to computerize the school. And going to a 12-year-old school is a mandatory condition for both a material and technical base and content and computerization. Also, the school’s profile in rural schools has become fiction. The content of the training has not been updated, and there has been no retraining of the personnel, the teaching staff, which are supposed to teach the children in the training school. There is virtually no solution to the implementation of the State’s School Bus programme. Why am I talking about this? Because in order for a child to attend a vocational school in the village, he has to be taken to the school every day for living there. Our children, if we were to go to 12-year education with you. First of all, in 2012, we wouldn't have been able to accept children because we wouldn't have received them completely in higher education. Children would have graduated from school at 18-19 years of age. Why, then, did the authors of the reform not change the Family Code regarding marriage in time? And we know when we're getting married in our country. Or even if marriage agencies and kindergartens and maternity homes were already built at school, they would have solved these questions. I mean, really, in that way, we can't go on reforming. We're not folding it. We're giving her a whole new sound. And we are updating the content that requires of us today, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u160	Thank you, Catherine Seed. If they're desirable, please. Two — “for”, two — “against”. Yes, Mikola Kulczynski. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u161	Mr. Mikola gave me the word. Two moments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u162	Sorry, turn off the microphone. Please wait. I'll give it to you in closing. Yes, please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! First of all, one myth is that in Europe, education is purely or exclusively a 12-year-old. That's not true. This is about compulsory education, as we now speak of 11 years. In Europe, compulsory education is general, secondary, and general, not compulsory — various parameters. And a different term. Therefore, there is no need to deceive and deceive anyone about Europe. First, learn how it is. And now that I've been doing some sociological research. I'm going to give them a real quote without comment. Why? Because it's not companies that serve the political forces before the elections, and it's the Institute of Social and Political Psychology of the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences of Ukraine that did research. It's the Institute of Innovative Technology of Education Content -- it's also totally top-notch, and it's not a result-driven, let's call it. So here's an interesting moment, look. When asked how you feel about the introduction of a 12-year term of education in public schools, teachers, it's a very important evolution of views. In October 2002, 34 percent per year was positive. Even then, 55 percent were definitely against it. Let's see evolution. May 2010 is 11 percent, compared to 72 percent. One second. We sometimes think that you can solve questions for young people who are now 16-17 years old, and in the course of, you remember, Catherine Seminevna, parliamentary hearings, I said that these people, and these are no longer children, teenagers who are 16-17 years of age against this. I've been noticed that you're still a high school student. But you can't make decisions like that if you ignore your parents' opinions, you ignore the teachers' opinions, you ignore the opinions of those who have been studying for 12 years, all of which are to implement novels and scientific developments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u164	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u165	The scientific development of a dozen scientists and a certain, small number of people who support them. It seems to me that the decision should be simply clear who thinks of those for whom we make the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u166	Please, Davemuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u167	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Again in the arguments we've heard that we can't, the second we can't, the tenth we can't, so let's not do anything back to what happened. Ladies and gentlemen! The world is putting problems before us and does not ask whether we are ready to do so, whether we can or cannot. But on the other hand, the world requires serious reform so that our state becomes a normal state in the world, a European state. It says here that the experts are coming back, and they're all supporting this idea, and they're going back to the 11th. Ladies and gentlemen, I am reading this is the National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, which is designed to study this subject in depth. “One of the main international criteria for the quality of education is the length of education to achieve a certain level of education. When it comes to complete general secondary education, for example, there is no EU country where it takes less than 12 years. The proposed reduction in the length of education to complete general secondary education for one year, which is more than a thousand teaching hours, naturally cannot prevent education, contradicts European educational trends and may lead to difficulties in recognizing the country's education documents by international society.” Once again, we are in conflict with international society. Guys, if we're going to reform, we need to take steps to reform, we need time. If we make mistakes, we need to correct them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u168	Thank you. Please, Lesa the Ripper, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, you think you're reducing education from 12 to 11. Nothing like that. By the year 2000, children had gone to school at the age of seven, since 2000 at the age of six. Under this bill, children will go to a forced kindergarten at the age of five, and your children and grandchildren will do the same. Catherine Semenovna, that's what you do. One second. Since there is no funding in the budget for the continuation of 12-year education, there is also no talent and administrative skill to complete this reform, it is simply a banal reduction. But there is another very important point to this bill, namely the way it is put into the agenda without consideration by the committee. I'm telling you in a responsible capacity as head of a subcommittee from basic education, or school education, the committee has not considered this issue. Two weeks ago, there was a raid, instead of the six needed for the quorum of deputies, there were four at the meeting under the chairmanship of Catherine Seminovna, the fifth one was joined by a telephone, and we are not doing ethical reforms in education. [[I don't know when we had the committee on the phone to discuss it.]] What these unethical methods are going to lead to, let's see. However, I am not convinced that a forced seat in a government nursery from the age of 5 will save the health of your children and grandchildren. At least think of them if you care about the health of the new generation of Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u170	Yes, dear colleagues, calm down, calm down. From the factions of the regions, please do not speak for 1 minute, Chechetov. Chechtov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u171	Yaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u172	Drought is given the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us not "juggle" here with the word "reform". It's, you know, I think since we started to juggle that word, people have become scared. Reform is about what? Reform is designed to improve, improve, and bring legislation into line with the realities of life. And we're trying to get someone to like it, or it's artificial to bring our children's lives up to some illusional, imaginary standards. I want to ask you all, how come we've all been here in the session room, including a colleague of Davymuk's for 10 years, didn't pass tests, how we did exams, how we protected the dissertation? Here, among us, professors and professors, candidates, doctor of science. How did this happen?Oh, my God! Don't make it up in an empty place, and you don't have to talk about some sort of raiding sensation, because that's funny! Reform needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u174	Please, Cibenko, 1 minute, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u175	Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say to a colleague who threatened and confused a little bit about the forced custody of the children in the gardens, she was obviously confused with another institution. What I'm trying to say is that hearings themselves and discussing the draft law have shown once again that all of them consider themselves professionals in the field of education. So I'd like to re-emphasize as a person who worked in school for about 20 years. Dear colleagues, one of the greatest losses of post-Radians Ukraine in 20 years has been the destruction of a perfect education system, a system that has been adopted by other countries to take a step forward and we have abandoned it ourselves. Therefore, respectable colleagues, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, will surely support this bill, it is correct, it is directed to the future, and we will have to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u176	Yes, please, Samolik's replica and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! I ask you to support this bill, a young colleague does not know that just four men were entitled under the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committees Act to call a committee. And it's not my fault that, unfortunately, an assignment was given, and some of the deputies were even sent back so they wouldn't go to the committee meeting. But not four, but six people said they were in favour, and I wouldn't want to go any further, because I'd like to tell you how changes were made to the legalization of the tests, where three men on the committee voted for it, and you know what happened, and what was happening all this time. I don't know how to act like that, but I want to say, the law on time, on the demand of the vast majority of the minds of scientists, teachers, parents and I ask you all very much to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Not out of motive, but Kirilenko's one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u179	Viacheslav Kirilenko Party “For Ukraine! ” There's no one here to convince, because what most people accept is still going through. But I'm sorry that this is happening under a reduced procedure. Basically canceling a 12-year-old and introducing an 11-year-old and forced preschool education. In order for me to have just a few facts, I will say that I will be able to attend kindergartens in five years. I'm reporting that the average wage of a kindergarten teacher is 1,460 dollars per month, and the assistant is 790 dollars -- with that salary they're now going to have to teach everyone, and there's no budget for the increase. Visiting a private garden in Kiev for up to four thousand dollars a month is not enough gardening in Kiev. For example, the number of children between 3 and 6 years of age is between 20 and 35, and in rural areas only 33 percent of children attend kindergartens. So this bunch of problems is automatically going to the budget and this economy, from the 12th anniversary, canceling it, is automatically translated into other ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You and I have adopted many different laws that affect people’s lives in one way or another. Most of you are meeting with voters, absolutely all of us know the level of trust in the people in the higher legislature, but believe me, if we pass this law now, and I'm sure we're going to accept it, for the first time or for the first time in many years, the vast majority of people will say thank you very much. [[Applause]] If we don't accept it, we don't know what to do from September 1st. Because since September 1st, if this law doesn't have to be implemented 12 years, but almost none of those who have graduated from nine classes have applied for a continuation of education, because he doesn't want to study for an extra year. One second. You've got college instructors sitting among you, in a year, who are you going to take to college if we go to 12-year-old school? There are few generals among you, please tell anyone in the army who will serve if we start teaching another additional year and so on and so forth. So once again, we can make a very fine gift for each practically Ukrainian family today. I am voting on the adoption of a law as a law amending Ukraine's legislation on general secondary and pre-school education on the organisation of the educational process. Please vote. [[13:34:18]] For 248 The law is passed. The factions. The Party of Regions – 169, "Clock of July Timoshenko" – 22, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 8, communists – 27, "Clock of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 3. Thank you and ask all parents and teachers to calm down. Since September 1, we will continue to study for 11 years. I'm sure the President will sign this law. A draft law on the introduction of a supplement to the Ukrainian Act on the well-being of population centres is under consideration. [[on the definition of small architectural form]] Registration number 5143. Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:35:20]] For 205 Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! This bill was passed by a committee, discussed by all experts. It's absolutely necessary. Because today, who can, who can't, publishes acts that are a small architectural form. And by their own judgment, whether they establish these architectural forms, or they damage these architectural forms. If possible, listen. Because we see images on television every day, in a way that destroys small architectural forms, expels entrepreneurs, and somewhere sets up architectural forms. One of the city’s viceroys is in charge of a whole network of these architectural forms. Therefore, the purpose of the bill is to clarify, to give a term that is a small architectural form. If I say that our cities today are in these architectural forms similar to Shanghai, I will insult Shanghai. Because Shanghai looks so much better than our cities. Especially today is the capital of Ukraine, the city of Kiev. So the goal was to explain the term "small architectural form", and to make it unified, so that everyone would know where it could be established, and to introduce that term into the law on well-being. Good point, everybody agrees. Regardless of where I am, whether in coalition or opposition, I think we all want to see our cities beautiful. And so I'm addressing you, look, the law consists of three points: the definition of a small architectural form, the definition of a moving form that is provided for trade and entrepreneurship. I think there are a lot of people who are actually holding this country today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u182	Thank you. Vote. I am voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft law on the introduction of a supplement to the Ukrainian Act on the well-being of population centres. [[on the definition of small architectural form]] [[Registration number 5143]] Cyril was convinced that this law should be adopted. Please be supportive. [[13:38:12]] For 301 Decision taken. How do you view the adoption of the law? No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u183	Huh? Yeah, well, there's a second reading, there's a question. A draft Law on amber is under consideration. [[5497 Registration Number]] Please, from the committee, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:39:07]] For 231 Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, a year ago the committee held a field meeting in the Plains region on the issue of amber mining. What is the severity of the problem? According to information provided by the relevant ministries and authorities, the constant demand for amber abroad and the complex socio-economic situation of the population of the northern regions of the Polish region are driving residents to illegally mine amber because the prices of amber cheese in the illegal market are quite high. Large areas of amber distribution, the closure of the area, the distance from populated areas, the easy access to handmade and hydromechanical development, have resulted in massive unauthorized drilling by private individuals, caregivers, and other entrepreneurial structures. Such actions, in addition to direct material damage in the State, result in the plundering of beneficial fossils causing significant damage to the environment. The committee after the exit meeting recommends that the bill be adopted in the first reading. The bill envisages transferring special drilling permits to the region, which should create additional revenues to local budgets and create additional jobs. The bill provides for a mechanism for State control over amber production and environmental conservation. First of all, the bill should eliminate the economic principles of shadowing illegal amber. The Minn-natures, the Treeshospes, basically support the bill. The Special Committee supports the bill. And the problem is, the main problem of the state is that it completely loses control of amber and loses that valuable raw material. So the committee calls on you, honourable colleagues of the national MPs to support the bill, to adopt it on the first reading as a basis, and then to work together on the second reading. Thank you for your attention. And once again, I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u185	Thank you. Please sit down, Anatoly Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I think on the first reading we can accept it, and, in fact, there, firstly, we need to settle it, and secondly, we need to settle it so that it can be for society, for people, for the state. So I'm only voting for the first reading. On the adoption of the first reading of the Law on amber. [[Registration number 5497]] [[13:42:02]] For 264 Adopted in the first reading. The draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications is under consideration. [[on the definition of the market in telecommunications services]] [[Registration number 2149]] This is Moroko Yuri Mikolaiovich reporting, please. There's a short cut. Please vote. [[13:42:39]] For 211 Please. A decision has been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, a draft Act amending the Telecommunications Act has been proposed to your attention. [[Registration number 2149]] The purpose of the bill is to define the market for telecommunications access services by introducing a mechanism for regulating tariffs for access to a communications operator with a significant impact on the market for access services. The proposed changes will enable the National Communications Management Commission to better address the conflict situations that arise between operators in the access market and ensure the development of a competitive environment. The European Union introduced relevant legislative changes in 2002. The adoption of the law on first reading is based on the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Communications Regulatory Commission, the Minttransactions, the Sectoral Committee. In preparation for the first reading, a number of comments were made, proposals for the text of the bill. The authors met with liaison operators, representatives of the Antimonopoly Committee, NCHRs, the Communications Authority. There is mutual understanding and confidence that by second reading all comments will be taken into account. Please support the project as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u187	Thank you. Yes, please, from the Committee of Yuri Borisovich Kruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u188	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council for Transport and Communications, at its meeting on 3 July last year, reviewed the Law on Changes in Telecommunications on the definition of the market for communications services, and decided to invite the Supreme Council to consider the bill and adopt it on first reading, taking into account the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Cabinet of Ministers, which supported the bill. [[Registration number 2149]] [[authors of Ukrainian People's Deputies: Morocco and Korj]] And I think the bill is absolutely necessary, and that is why the committee voted unanimously in favour of its adoption on first reading. Please support the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u189	Thank you. Should we? I'm betting on a bill of 2149 amending the Law on Telecommunications. [[on the definition of the market in telecommunications services]] [[13:45:26]] For 256 The law was adopted as a basis. We are considering a bill amending the Law on Telecommunications in Ukraine. [[on the provision of access to cable connection]] [[Registration number 5333]] Yuri Mikolaiovich Moroko There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:46:00]] For 214 Offer supported. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u190	Honourable People's Deputies, Bill No. 5333 has been invited to your attention. Article 1 of the Act complements the definition of “cable channels of telecommunications”, and article 66 amends the definition of State regulation of tariffs for use. The proposed changes would eliminate the conflict situations that arise between communications operators in connection with the use of cable pipelines. The adoption of the draft law on first reading is based on the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Communications Management Commission, the Minttranslation Committee. Please support this bill and vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u191	Thank you. Yuri Borisovich Krock from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u192	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council for Transport and Communications considered at its meeting on 14 April this year a draft Act amending the Law on Telecommunications of Ukraine of 8.04.2010 to replace the earlier one. [[on access to cable telecommunications]] [[Registration number 5333]] The authors are the People's Deputies of Morocco and Korz. The purpose of the bill is to establish the legislative principles for the implementation of the Telecommunications Act of Ukraine, the principles for the implementation of telecommunications activities relating to the State regulation of tariffs for the use of cable telecommunications. The Committee requests that the draft law be adopted on first reading as a basis and that it be further elaborated on the comments that have been made. Please support the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u193	Thank you. No objection to support? I would ask, really, for the second reading, as we will accept, to take into account the comments that are to be more accurate. I am betting on the adoption vote on the basis of Bill No. 5333 amending the Law on Telecommunications in Ukraine. [[on the provision of access to cable connection]] Please vote. [[13:48:32]] For 296 A decision has been made. We are considering Bill No.3450, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on the issue of bonds by international financial institutions]] Report by Poluniev Yuri Volodymyrovich. None. So from the committee, well, he's supposed to be from the committee, because he's going to report as the author of the initiative as the secretary of the committee. We can accept it. Yes, please, Arjevitin. Please, Arjevitin, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, it's a pity there's no reporter. I wanted to hear what the purpose of this bill was, because in an explanatory note, if you read it. Well, I'll tell you two words, this bill is registered to allow international organizations to issue bonds in Ukraine. So now the International Monetary Fund in Ukraine has to accumulate our Ukrainian funds. I find it hard to understand why this is because international financial organizations have to come to Ukraine to help us as Ukraine and members of these organizations, not to mobilize our narrow Ukrainian financial market and to issue these funds to our nation. And the explanatory note says that this is going to create conditions in the context of the financial crisis for investment resources, where these international financial organizations in our Ukrainian market, through the bond instrument, contribute money to our state, although it is not legally provided that these funds that these international organizations in our Ukrainian market will be channelled to the Ukrainian economy. And by the way, the Science-Expert Authority also notes that in a crisis situation, this could be the result of channelling some of the free investment resources not directly into the real economy, but into the stock market. So, Your Honor, I don't understand this ideology why in a financial crisis, we have to allow it. And today it is illegal for international financial organizations that have created several states to be issuers of securities in our Ukrainian market. So I honestly don't understand why we're the narrow financial market, the financial resources that we're going to be distracting international financial institutions today. I therefore propose not to support this bill. One of the deputies, isn't he? From the government, what's the point?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u195	Excuse me, the Securities Commission. The bill has been drafted in this way because, according to our legislation, international organizations cannot issue bonds because they have no statute, they have no statute. Foreign banks, such as the “ING” companies, partly the “BMP” and so on, issue bonds, raise funds and export abroad. For a banking system with foreign capital, it's really a competitor. But the listed securities in the future can be, and according to the legislation that is, they invest these funds in the country where the funds are involved, the decision of the World Bank and other organizations. In addition, these banks are releasing not only for the International Fund but for banks such as the Bank for European Development and Reconstruction and the International Bank for European Development, which are carrying out real projects in Ukraine. In addition, the listed securities may be as reliable as purchased by Ukrainian issuers. So any position can be, but the measured really valuable papers are competitive for the banking system. But the bill in this case is designed to give organizations like the whole world the opportunity to let go, all over the world, really, they can let go. And that's why we support it as a world experience.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u196	Yes, I am voting for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on the issue of bonds by international financial institutions]] Bill number is 3,450. [[13:53:44]] For-198 The decision is not supported. Perhaps for the rereading of the first reading? I'll bet you an offer. I'll take a vote. [[13:54:11]] For 207 The bill was rejected. The session is still ending, so we can go back to it in September. Draft Act 5157 is under consideration, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on the avoidance of "technical" defaults]] Please, Liss Igor Volodymyrovich. Get ready for Piglet. Suggestion: Short-term consideration. Please vote. [[13:55:02]] For the 220. Please, Igor Volodymyrovich, from the committee and from the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u197	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee, when considering the bill at its meeting, concluded that the draft allowed bond issuers, without violating the rights of investors, if they agreed to avoid default on those bonds, to continue their full-fledged business activities and to continue to fulfil all their obligations to holders of their bonds. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office supported the adoption of the bill on first reading. In doing so, I would like to point out separately that there have been no negative comments by the management experts on the proposed legislative proposals. The Committee also received an expert opinion from Parliament's Committees on Rules, Budget and European Integration. These committees also did not oppose the adoption of the bill. The Committee on Budget Affairs defined the project as one that would not affect the budget. The Committee on European Integration has decided to bring the bill into line with the legislation of the European Union. The bill is supported by the State Securities and Stock Market Commission. In addition, positive projections were also taken into account in the Committee's elaboration of the draft as a result of its adoption. Thus, in the absence of negative assessments by the structural units of the Supreme Council and the executive branch, taking into account the full support of the draft law by market actors, the Committee on Finance and Banking decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on first reading, the adoption of a draft Act amending the Law on Securities and Stock Markets on the creation of conditions to avoid technical defaults on the basis and generally as a law. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm going to continue the session for 15 minutes, except for Arjevitin, no one else insists? Then please, Stanislaw Arzevetin, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u199	Dear National Deputies! I would also like to draw your attention to what might appear to be a norm written down so painless and correct. But imagine a situation where an enterprise has made an issue, made an issue of bonds, and then can't pay it off for some reason, and turns to its holders of these bonds, and says, if you don't sell them to me, you're not going to get anything. And in that way you can buy bonds for half price, and I think that in the way that it's written right now, I don't think you can take them as a whole. The idea is, of course, in a financial crisis, to allow for a continuation of the issue, but this should not in any way affect the cost of the broadcast that was made a few months ago. The terms can continue, but the price of paying such bonds changes, I think it's a standard that needs to be clearly written here. And I'd also like to draw attention to the fact that it says that emissions. change, changes to the emission project are allowed according to this option, a new item is introduced. So I think in the second reading, these things need to be clearly prescribed so that the owner holding the issuer's bonds does not violate their price rights. So the term goes on and the price has to stay the way it was. So I suggest that you accept it only on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-06-m0.u200	The discussion is over. I put to the vote a bill under number 5157 amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on the creation of conditions to avoid “technical” defaults]] Please vote. [[13:59:32]] For 238. Decision taken. Shorten preparation for second reading if we can. Please, I'll bet you a vote. [[13:59:59]] For 239. Short procedure for preparing for second reading. Let's go to the inclusion section in the agenda of the day session. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 43 of the Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. [[on enterprises that use nuclear energy in their activities]] [[Registration number 6413]] Please vote. [[14:00:10]] For 237 Decision taken. There is a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the "On Culture" Act. [[Registration number 6469]] Please vote. [[2:01:07]] For 240 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the right to take certain measures concerning the conduct of economic activity or activities on the basis of a declaration of conformity of the material and technical basis to the requirements of legislation. [[Registration number 6479]] Please vote. [[14:01:47]] For 287 Supported. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets. [[dealing with issues of exchange and storage of information in the framework of international cooperation in the regulation of financial services markets]] [[Bill 6484 registration number]] Please vote. [[14:02:27]] For 244 It's on. And it's about the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 6419 -- draft Act on the National Commission for the Regulation of the Common Services Market of Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:02:56]] For 257 It's on. And two more suggestions, my dear colleagues, the first offer. You know, we'll be working with you at 4:00 and we'll start looking at the Budget Code. So I'm proposing that we work today after 16 hours before the finalization of the budget code. Please be supportive. Football will come to us. [[14:03:34]] For the 220. Factions: Region Party - 159, Block Timoshenko - 9, Our Ukraine - 3, Communists - 27, Block of Lithuania - 19, non-fractional - 3. Dear colleagues! I'm voting for a return to the vote on this proposal. Please vote. We'll finish what you're going through before football. [[14:04:11]] For 242 We're back. I'm betting on a proposal to work after 16 hours before considering the budget code. Please vote. [[14:04:35]] For 239. A decision has been made. And another proposal that was made on the Conciliation Council. Since you and I are probably working the last plenary week of this session, and we have a lot of bills, so it's up to you to change the calendar plan tomorrow, change the calendar plan, and hold an evening session of 16 hours tomorrow. Please vote. [[14:05:19]] For 247 A decision has been made. Thank you for the support and justice of today’s decision. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed, beginning at 16 p.m., there will be one question on the agenda of the Budget Code.
