ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:09]] Cards were registered in the 370 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our consideration of the issues set out in the February 11th schedule. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Restrictions, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 13.06. 2007. [[amended law in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] The registration number of document 0866. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy's subcommittee, Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u2	I would like to remind everyone that this bill has already been adopted and has been vetoed by the President. Following the veto of the President, he was sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for work. The work resulted in the establishment of a working group, which included representatives of civil society organizations, BTIs and so on, except the Ukrainian people's deputies, which included the representatives of Derzkomzem, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. And eventually, a document was born, which is now before you for consideration. There are many amendments to it. We should probably go to the amendments and look at them in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let's go after the amendments. Which are not included in the amendments or who insists on voting on the amendments taken into account. 7th Amendment, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Velizinski, 8th. 9th. Don't insist. Beamenko, 16 repairs. Here. Alexander, are you insisting?: No, it's not. 26 Amendment, Velizhanski. No, it's not. Thirty-two of your repairs. Here. Amendment 42 Chicken. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. I was a woman, 46th. No, it's not. Chicken, 49th. No, it's not. Chicken, 51st. No, it's not. 54th, Filipenko. No, it's not. Filipenko, 61st. No, it's not. 63rd. No, it's not. I was a woman, 75th. No, it's not. 76th, Filipenko. No, it's not. I was a woman, 83rd. No, it's not. Eighty-five, Beazenko. No, it's not. Pilipenko, 95th. No, it's not. Beazenko, repair 100. No, it's not. Velizinski, 103rd. No, it's not. Filipenko, 107th. No, it's not. Filipenko, 111st. No, it's not. Velizanski, Popov, Tkachenko, Cibenko, 115th, 131st amendment. No, it's not. Yes, all the corrections are included. Please make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u4	Position of the Committee: To recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading and in general. I would like to draw your attention to the following. This bill is very important and very important, including not only to address matters of registration of property rights, it is land and all that stands on the ground: real estate that cannot be tolerated without violating it and damaging it. But it is a very important law that must conform to the Earth Code and with all the laws on earth that we are now enacting. He, this law, conforms to all the laws we have enacted. I suggest you vote for him. It will greatly facilitate the work of citizens, and it will not be necessary to go around all institutions, and it will be possible to come to only one body — the administration of justice. And there you can register the land and the real estate and everything you want at the same point.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u5	Dear colleagues. For the reasons of the vote, Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u6	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. We can vote, but it's worth it. I'll tell you my doubts. From one block, it's like it's the right thing to do, and it's all transferred into the hands of one government authority. But on the other hand, this law severely limits the possibilities of local self - government, local authorities, district authorities, especially district councils, and district councils. I mean, how do you define a session room? But once again, I'm stressing one pretty important point. We have a call to other factions, perhaps. There is a statement that by adopting this bill we are significantly reducing financial opportunities, including the financial possibilities of filling local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u7	Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u8	I'd like to draw everyone's attention to one thing. This law confers only one function to the Ministry: registration of ownership rights and registration of loads on an object of property; it does not take away any other functions, nor from BTIs, which are assigned to utility property, nor from prefabricated property, nor from Derzkomem, nor from where. Only one function is to register property rights. And it is very convenient for a citizen, a Ukrainian citizen, to come to an organization and get one paper in one organization than to go to the center of the land inventory, in the BTI, only eight registers now where statements are to be received. There are no other powers of councils taken by Minustom.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u9	National MP of the Black Seas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u10	Blackmoorov, faction of regions. I wanted to tell you about the amendments first. The amendment of the Committee, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government No. 115 was not fully taken into account and no reply was received. The Committee addressed a committee to adopt this amendment, which reads as follows: In article 30, paragraph (a), of the Law on Local Self-Government, add paragraph 14 to the bill and technical inventory of immovable property subject to registration. What are you talking about? Our country has not yet resolved the relationship of form and technical inventory, and there is no relevant law. There is a bill, Omelchenko and mine, that regulates this issue. It has not been considered for three years. Of course, the rush to fight is for the money that the BTI receives today is narrowed down by the powers of the territorial communities. This bill cannot be adopted before it is resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u11	Regarding 115 revisions. Dear colleagues, none of the authors of this amendment insisted, so I did not put her to the vote, obviously. For reasons of vote Yuri Klukkowski, then Lyszko and Bondik. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u12	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. We have several times, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the committee has reviewed this bill several times at its meeting, last and last time yesterday. And once again, we point out that when it comes to settling local self-government, the committee's opinion is ignored. Our committee received dozens of appeals from various local authorities and their associations, which strongly deny that local self - government will be deprived of the authority available today. I think for those who are about to go to local elections in the near future, the treatment of local self - government problems should not be the last. So our committee once again suggests to the Supreme Council not to ignore the profiling committee and suggests that the bill should be repositioned for second reading and further read.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u13	Thank you. Honorable national MPs, no one denies the National MP the amendment. I would like to emphasize once again, not the committee, but the national MPs. National MPs Velizanski, Popov, Tkachenko, I said: Do you insist on voting on this amendment? No, they don't. Please, Oleg Lazko. Because if you insist, I'll put this amendment to the vote, no problem!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u14	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm supposed to be out of the rostrum because my card's gone. I hope that soon my card will appear. I'd like to say about this bill. It's a good bill that removes the basis for the mafia. In particular, for the land mafia. And then when we have one government authority, where all of this will be registered, then there will be fewer opportunities for abuse. Because today we have a land plot of 20 state acts. And we don't know. And then people walk, they're tried for years. And every person paid for this government act. And he's got problems. Therefore, it is necessary to have a single register so that the person knows that if he buys the land, he will not be fooled or robbed, and the land he bought belongs to him, not to the ten neighbors who will claim it tomorrow. Therefore, this bill must be supported. And those who speak, Vladimir Mikhailovich, today against this bill, they're working on this mafia that's interested in, you know, murky water easy to fish. That's why this bill is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u15	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u16	Thank you. I'll tell you in five seconds. Dear colleagues, I don't want to offend anyone. If you've offended someone, I'm sorry. But this bill is for the benefit of millions of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u17	Thank you. Valérie Bondick. Dear colleagues, we're going into discussion. The question was only about the motives of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u18	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, any law he has has a political and legal component. Thus, for example, only the legal ingredient is involved in this law. Why? Because the Ministry of Justice is this kind of organ, you know, the unique organ where the single load register works. There's a base where a notary can turn and get a load base and any other user. For example, the Bureau of Credit History, unfortunately, handed over from Minnesota, handed over the commission on valuable papers. So I'm asking you, Your Honor, to reject the extra political and vote in favour of this bill. Why? Because there are positive conclusions from both the Ministry of Justice and the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Everything, indeed, is essential in order to improve the lives of our citizens, if we are for them, really, as we remember our electorate not only from election to election, but in voting on these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u19	Gregory Smythech, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u20	Thank you. Dear national deputies, indeed, we are considering an important law. Because such vachanalism, which is being created today in relation to our rights to certain objects, makes it hard for all citizens to think that we have, in fact, a mafia there. But I would like to tell the Ukrainian national MPs that the land mafias, I think, represent the very political power that only the representative has been speaking on. If this representative has evidence that the local mafia and someone is in charge, I would like him to call here or contact the Attorney General's Office, where he has his motives or arguments as to what mafia, who is leading her, where she is, and so on. So I call on this national MP to announce the Mafia and their leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u21	Roman Tjak and Valerius Baranov, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u22	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! In principle, I think that there's a generally normal law and since it's been working since 2004, there's been a lot of such inaccuracies, and today, in principle, 90 percent of the law is normal. And by the way, I want to say that right now there's a law on the State Land cadastre on our work committee. He will comply with this law, and generally well. But I do have, I asked Yuri Mikolaiovich, these questions, I do have two questions. First. This is not just because the district and district justice offices will be running the registration. But this is about creating a state-owned enterprise, which is a state-owned enterprise, what is its structure, what state, where will they be? This is the first question I have not received an answer to. And the second question. The Transitional Regulations state that before 2012, the issue of rights, mortgages, real estate burdens will continue to be carried out by notaries. But this is two years, during this period, after all, Ukrainian reality is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u23	Please finish, ten seconds, please. That's enough, it's all clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u24	And that leads to the fact that there might be abuse, that the back number will form all of these things. So I think it's just these two important points that need to be settled somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u25	Thank you. Valerius Baranov and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u26	Deputies! If we are talking about the development of local self-government, today this law is taking the first step towards its destruction. Think about what you're going to do? You want to destroy the database that is in the authorities of self-government and one of the sources of the income base of local governments. It is a purely lobbyist law, a new office that will have a vertical from the State from the centre of Kiev down to every village. And we're breaking what's working properly, trying to create a new bike. The association of cities I represent here is absolutely against. And I assure you, don't move local self-government, you need to develop it, not destroy it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u27	Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev. Please remind the National Deputies that this law has been worked out, and we can vote on it, or accept it, or the law will be rejected. Can I have the microphone, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u28	I would like to answer the questions raised by the last two speakers. People, citizens and lawyers will not communicate with any organization other than the administration of justice on the ground. They will only pay money in the State budget in the form of a government fee for registration, two. Thirdly, they will pay money in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for their statement from the register, which is written here. It is a public organization, enterprises that will be subordinated to the Ministry, which will provide technical services to the registry, has no relation to the registration itself and does not receive money. In the original version of this law, there were problems, we solved them and removed all of these problems, any attempts to establish any money on private structures were removed here. That's the first one. Second, with regard to local self-government and cities. The function remains full of local self-government and land allocations, on the basis of issues, and the registration of these land plots themselves, the establishment of sequential plans, the measurement of plots and so on. One small function is the registration of property rights, purely legal law, and it goes to the State, to the Ministry of Justice, no private company. Moreover, the law expressly states that the State registry is a State property and that no State should pay for that registry and no State should give it data from that registry except under the conditions provided for by law. This means to the owner of the facility itself, to his attackers or to the person for whom the burdens are imposed, of course to the public authorities, to the courts, to the prosecutor's office, to the BSS. I believe that this law also helps cities, but above all, Ukrainian citizens and legal persons. It takes us away from everyone, from all these corruption schemes, when people were forced to go around all these inspectors, to pay bribes for every visa, every signature. Sergei Sobolev and Alexander Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u29	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev's House of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! It seems to me that this is the exact case where both the right and the right are. But now we're in a situation where we're going to cut off the idea because today we see that this bill doesn't vote. But at the same time, if we don't get order with the only register, we're actually going to duplicate the acts, we're actually going to have double registers. So my proposal is to postpone the vote and hold more consultations separately on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u30	Alexander Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u31	Dear colleagues! The few questions that have been heard in the hall today are evidently not on the ground in part of the predictions that someone will be deprived of his rights or will be cut off. Moreover, I want to say that this is one of the basic laws for us to be able to build a normal market economy in Ukraine in principle. Because without the legal protection of property rights, it can be expected that this property can be used not only for its physical purpose but also as a capital to enter into a mortgage and otherwise, it is not possible at all. If there is no single state-wide calculation of the rights of a natural or legal person, there will never be any development in the country of what is needed for every nation that is on the market. I've been watching this process for 10 years of competition between departments, between who, what, and what they're going to do. If we do not finally come to terms with this decision, we will, and for many years, move away from the irreversible steps that are needed for Ukraine. So I ask you to support this bill so that Ukraine can have a legal tool to protect property rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u32	Dear National Deputies! You have ideas, those were the reasons for the vote, you've already spoken. So please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a new edition based on the drafting of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Restrictions. [[editorial number 0866]] [[B in m in s a l in]] [[16:24:32]] For 235 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now scheduled to consider with you the Law of Ukraine on Amendments to the Law on Preventing and Resisting the Legalization of the Proceeds of Crime, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 12.12.2009. [[new editor]] [[pre-worked version]] Unfortunately, I have to inform you that the committee has not considered this law, so there is no option. There is a letter from the committee that motivates the complexity of the drafting of the new law and asks him to postpone consideration. What are some suggestions? No objections? So no one's denying it? Let us postpone consideration of the law. We now have three Ukrainian laws on which the President of Ukraine has applied the veto. At the same time, I am informing you that I have received letters from the committees about the transposition of laws in view of the fact that the committees have not been able to prepare their findings. [[Registration numbers 0851, 1047, 5010]] So there's no objection to having committees work out for the next plenary week? Thank you. Likewise, honourable colleagues refer to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the granting of public service status to medical, pedagogical and scientific teachers]] The State Building Committee addressed a letter asking for a postponement of consideration in connection with the failure of the committee to consider the bill, they believe, an alternative under number 3155-1, introduced on 03.02. 2010 I'm thinking of a famous committee. That this bill could not be an alternative, since the previous bill was registered on September 16, 2008. But together with the fact that the committee is not ready to report, I have such a request, my fellow Members, for the next plenary week of Tuesday we are considering this law, but the next law cannot be alternative in view of the date of introduction of the law. Well, I'm not going to make political rhetoric about that. A draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Import into Ukraine, Customs and Taxation of Personal Goods, Goods and Means of Transport imported by Citizens into Customs Territory of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on short-term visits]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, the responsible head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Sergey Anatoliyovich Terjohin. I remind you, this is draft law registration number 4166. Yuri Bogdanovich. Like, we have everything. We've made decisions on the Conciliation Council that the committee doesn't look for a long time -- to consider and make decisions, because people demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u33	Okay. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the bill that is proposed to your mind is out of practice. The fact is that very many Ukrainian citizens who live in the West abroad do not go to the Consular Account. This also raises problems in protecting their rights, and it also raises problems in the elections, because without going to the Consular Account, they don't register on voter lists. In the long history of communication with representatives of our work diaspora, the question arose: How can they be stimulated in order to become members of the Consular Account? In this regard, they turned to, as it were, the offer they faced. Today, foreigners have the right to temporarily enter Ukraine on their cars without paying their import duties, provided that they leave Ukraine on the same car. If such a right were granted to Ukrainian citizens who were on consular leave and thus proved that they were living outside Ukraine, it would make it much easier for them to get in their cars on condition that they were leaving Ukraine. That is why this bill is being proposed. This bill was drafted not only by the deputies but also by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and is very much requested by representatives of our citizens who live and work abroad. I would like to emphasize once again, this will allow order in the consul's accounting and will remove a lot of questions, especially when the voter lists are formed in the elections. I would like to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. No questions asked. Well, if you don't, don't write it down. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u35	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I am also one of the authors of this bill. He has the absolute right to support. But, Yuri Bogdanovich, I'd like to ask you, you said the exact right phrase, which unfortunately we didn't count with you. So either now let's take into account and accept in general, or let's take into account in preparing for the second reading. What are we talking about? We were allowed to import, but we forgot to write "as long as he leaves." So if we were to add to that now, as it were, I think we could accept it as a bill as a whole. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u36	I absolutely support this idea, because that's exactly what it meant, not to legalize illegal imports, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u37	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u38	Thank you. I have a follow-up to the question Adam Ivanovich asked. Our citizen drove in his own car, and later he left on his own. And when he returns permanently to Ukraine, does he have the right to take this car with him, or does he have to leave it for the next migrant, his son, grandson, or anyone else? What you're proposing as an author.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u39	I don't see a problem with that, because it's his property. The car is not registered in Ukraine, and its state registration took place there somewhere in the country of residence. That's why he can stay there, that's his property. But if he wants to keep moving, he's obviously got to pay the import tax -- it's not doubtful.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u40	Gregory Smythech, microphone. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u41	Thank you. Yuri Bogdanovich, you passed this law on time because I've been dealing with the problem lately, to the extreme extent, I'm making proposals to some of the other legislative acts that deal with our issues, including our citizens who are outside of Ukraine. And, you know, statistics are impressive, especially labour emigration. And for one reason or another, people go from one month to several years. And of course they should use and have the same rights as other rights. At times, I am surprised that we give such rights to foreign citizens, and I restrict my citizens. So in time, I support the proposal Adam Ivanovich made to vote in general. And if you have any additions, you can make them later. That's one question. But I also have another question. Citizens working abroad are on illegal consular duty. They're paying taxes there, and there's a deal between Ukraine. And one country or another, with regard to the taxation of income that citizens receive. And he essentially taxed his income and bought his legal income, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u42	Please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u43	You don't think that, given the difficult situation of labour migration that has occurred in relation to Ukrainian citizens, forced labour migration is forced because the state has not created conditions, so don't you think that, if they are working abroad, if they are allowed to import these cars without a moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u44	To be honest, this idea goes beyond the law, although it should be studied. I want to emphasize once again: I don't want to create a channel for smuggling cars, because you realize that this thing can be very profitable for some. So perhaps this question should be studied further. But I think it's a little bit outside the bill itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u45	Vasil Fedorovich Shpak. He's refusing. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich, sit down. From the committee, please, who will report? None. So, dear colleagues, you and I at the Conciliation Council have decided to consider this bill because it was registered in March 2009. Soon, as a committee, he did not consider the matter. Well, it's not easy. So please sign up for the discussion if you need to discuss this bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the countboard. The faction statement is zero. There are no wanters. I will therefore put a proposal to the vote: on the adoption of the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Import, Transfer to Ukraine, Customs and Taxation of Personal Goods, Goods and Means of Transport, is being sent by citizens to the customs territory of Ukraine. [[on short-term visits]] [[Registration number 4166]] Please vote. [[16:35:49]] For 349 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there was an offer that Yuri Bogdanovich accepted. Yuri Bogdanovich, proposed by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk If we count it, we can, he says, put it to the vote as a whole. Do you mind? Adam Ivanovich, you'll make your offer, and then I'll ask my colleague if there's any objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u46	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the point of the proposal is down to that. So there's really no suspicion and there's no temptation under this brand to make way, sorry, for smuggling cars into our territory. But we should write down that they have the right to do this, to travel on their cars on condition that they make the same commitments to return to Ukraine. Thank you. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u47	No objections? Ladies and gentlemen, does no one object to putting to the vote the adoption of the draft law as a whole? None. I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general as the Law amended by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk to amend article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Import, Transfer to Ukraine, Customs and Taxation of Personal Things, Goods and Means of Transport which are Imported are transferred by citizens to the customs territory of Ukraine, registration number 4166. [[on short-term visits]] Again, I emphasize the adoption in the second reading and in general as the Law. [[16:37:43]] For 343 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to consider with you a draft of the Ukrainian Tax Code. At the same time, the author of the bill requested a postponement of the bill to consult the factions on a solution to the matter. Let's give it a chance to hold a consultation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there no objection? Thank you. Let's put the matter to rest. A draft Law on the features of applying a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities during the period of Ukraine’s economic exit from the financial crisis, registration numbers 4549, 4549-1, 4549-2, is under review. Why don't we put it on a short schedule, we won't be able to look at it? Dear colleagues, I am addressing the drafters of the bill: if we go in full procedure now, we will not be able to consider it. Do you mind if I take a brief look at it? I'm going to put this on the vote, the proposal, the hearing. Bills of registration: 4549, 4549-1, 4549-2, under reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:39:30.]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Reporters: Akimova Irina Mikhailovna, acting as Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Umanski Igor Ivanovich, Ukrainian national deputy, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Correspondent is head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryochin. Is he gone? So what are we going to do? Please invite me to speak on the current responsibility of Minister of Finance of Umanski Igor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u48	Good day, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Government Bill No. 4549-1 provides for the removal of restrictions on the application of a simplified system of taxation by business entities that provide, I stress, residential and utility services in rural areas, as well as participants and founders of local self-government. The bill is very short, simple, and this is the issue. So I wouldn't waste my time, I wouldn't take it away from you, I'd ask you to support the bill in this paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u49	Questions, honourable colleagues, if any, to the acting minister of finance. Please sign up. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u50	I'm not the subject, but I want to ask you a question. Well, maybe that's relative to the subject, and that's what's bothering the public general of Ukraine. So what's with the combination "Ukraine"? Are you no longer insisting on your raiding changes in leadership? Or this powerful institution that worked and worked in the area of influence and interest of the Minfin raider. Thank you for your frank response.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u51	Thank you for asking. It really doesn't apply to this bill. But I'll give you an answer. The Ministry of Finance is the body of the management of the “Ukraine” polygraph. And to say that the Ryder Ministry of Finance is taking over its own enterprise, as I am, is not entirely correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u52	Xenia Mikhailina, Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u53	I'd like to ask the honourable reporter. Here, these bills, particularly governmental and parliamentary bills, stand as alternatives. But as I understand it, your bill, which I believe to be a fair offer, is completely linked, for example, to the proposal of the same national deputy Akimov, who deals with entirely different issues that arise in the simplified taxation system. Don't you think these are complementary bills?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u54	Of course, laws can be unified. But I would not personally agree with the logic proposed in the bill of deputy Akimov. Why? The bill proposes to introduce a moratorium on changes to a simplified system of taxation before the country comes out of the crisis. What is the country’s exit from the crisis, how it is legally established, and who dares to make such a decision is very difficult to say. I mean, a moratorium without a final date on when it's going to be. Moreover, there is a proposal to introduce a moratorium on changes to those provisions that, to my deep conviction, require urgent changes and urgent settlement. As far as the Supreme Council's will is concerned, they can really be combined and made into a single bill. As for the Bill of the Third, prepared by Mr. Gristenk, I would very much ask the Supreme Council not to support this document. At the very least, this will ruin the overall system of taxation, the transition of almost all businesses to a simplified system.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u55	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u56	And as a result, it's just the destruction of the country's budget process, so I would very much ask the third bill not to support it in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u57	Thank you, time is up. I invite Julia Novikov on Bill 4549, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u58	Dear National Deputies! Your attention is drawn to the bill on the specificities of applying a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities during the period of the economy of Ukraine from the financial crisis. The adoption of this project requires the establishment of additional guarantees to protect the rights of small businesses in these difficult times, where a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting is extended. The project foresees a number of provisions that will be in place before Ukraine’s economy comes out of its financial crisis. Decision to be taken by the Supreme Council for the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine In particular, we propose to ban this bill: an increase in the single tax rates that are fixed on 1 January 2009 in accordance with the President’s decree on a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities. It's different. To ban restrictions on small business entities that extend to a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting. Third. To prohibit the establishment of the obligation to pay other taxes and taxes, or other taxes, by these entities. And in the end, the change in the mechanism bans the change in the mechanism of the single tax imposed by this Presidential Decree. Our bill also offered to exempt individuals from the payment of insurance contributions from entrepreneurial activities who chose a simplified system of taxation and members of the families of the listed persons who are involved in and are not involved in such business activities. However, taking into account the comments made to our bill by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, we agree that the subject should not be exempt from paying such premiums, but should be paid in accordance with the order set out in Article 2 and 3 of the President's Decree. I want to point out that in two other bills there are very important objections from all scientific institutions. And it's only our bill that's called for, and it's really aimed at supporting a small enterprise that's so necessary right now for the economy of the state. So I ask all the MPs to be conscious and to support our very own bill and with the national deputy Akimimov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please give me the names of the national deputies. Valery Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think Julia Volodymyrovna has made a very correct report and we can support this bill, at least in the first reading, but we can vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u61	Thank you. There are no more who would like to sit down, please. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko on Bill 4549-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u62	Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, came to the conclusion that it had really united as an alternative three bills, which were not really alternatives to their own, and Xenius Leppin rightly drew attention to it. Mrs. Akimov’s first bill was actually intended to ban the deterioration of the conditions for small businesses in crisis situations. And this was caused by certain actions, even by elements of mistrust of the government in force today. The second bill actually solves the point, and the deputy minister himself said that. The bill, which is presented through the “three two” by my authorship. He foresees a systemic solution to this issue so that, on the one hand, it doesn't make things worse and preserve the best that has been done since the President's decree to create conditions for small businesses. On the other hand, consider the needs, both the pension fund, and the economy, and give an honest answer to some of the questions that caused this business to be tinted. In particular, we've seen that small business is different. It could be a nanny, it could be a cab driver. And these could be real estate operations, dentistry, and so on, where there's a completely different level of cost and income and everything. And so here's the proposed solution that balances the interests of the entrepreneur and the state. And a person can take his own route without hiding his salary in envelopes, paying 10 percent of the turnover can do so without any extra charge on the wage fund that actually caused the toning of small businesses. What I'm saying is that the Chief Research Administration recommends that this bill be adopted as a basis. I would ask now in a difficult situation when the elections are over and the contradictions remain, and not all of them in the hall, reject the name Gristenka as the author. Because after the adoption of this law as a basis, it will become our own, and it will be the work of a professional committee. And authorship here has secondary absolute meaning. I think it's a normal basis for you to work quietly and take into account the exact nature of the changes proposed by the government bill, and to take into account the correct warnings that Mrs. Akimov is proposing in her bill. I'd like to support you in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u63	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to sign up if there are. May I have the names of the people's deputies? Valerius Bondick and Chago Eugenius
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm not an expert on all drafts. Sadly, though, you have to work on your alibi. Because it's said that today I and the deputies have also taken over the Supreme Court. But I do know that Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko arrived there today. So, dear fellows, I'm here, there are witnesses, nothing the Party of Regions has taken on. Thank you, sorry, it's not for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u65	Eugene Chagot, Faction BUT, please microphone. You don't? None. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a bill discussion. Ah, excuse me, take off the recording. Sergey Teryohin, head of the committee. Excuse me, please. I'm in a hurry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, my mission is quite simple: to sound the decision of the Supreme Council Committee on Tax Customs Policy. In accordance with three of these bills, a committee, in which most, I remind you, are from the Party of Regions, has decided to refer to the drafting of all three of these bills. Let me just take a moment to stop at each one of them. Suppose Bill No. 4549, submitted by the national deputy Akimova, restricts the constitutional rights of local self - government authorities in the part of the review and establishment of single taxes for small business entities. The exemption from payment of insurance contributions proposed by the bill will lead to an increase in the deficit of the pension and other social funds of Ukraine. Oh. As both the Scientific and Expert Office says, and the Legal Authority of the introduction of the proposed moratorium on the payment of insurance contributions does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, limits the constitutional rights of national deputies and other entities of the legislative initiative. That is why the committee did not support the bill and asked it, and recommended that it be sent for further work. It's about the government bill. That's a good idea. The idea of a government bill is to reduce the taxation of services provided by the CHEK, the FRK, and so on. Unfortunately, however, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, we cannot rule by law the President's decree, which was adopted during the Transitional Regulations after the adoption of the Constitution in 1996. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, we can adopt a complex act to regulate all these legal relations. Therefore, the Committee decided to seek the Cabinet of Ministers to provide the Cabinet with a new comprehensive law, a draft law on a simplified system of taxation, instead of a Presidential decree, which was adopted in due course under the Transitional Regulations. On my part personally, I think it's possible to accept it in the first reading, but then through other committees to convert it into a new tax bill, a simplified tax system for small and medium-sized businesses. And finally, the last bill submitted by the people's deputy, Griesenk, contains some positions that allow for the possibility of moving large corporations, large enterprises into a small taxation system. So to use a small taxation system not for which this system was created, not for family businesses, not for self-employed persons, but unfortunately, as has been said, the subject of a legislative initiative can be transferred to a small system by a metallurgical plant or any importer, or by those who launch rockets into space. Therefore, the Tax and Customs Policy Committee does not recommend that the bill be based. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, is the question a coconspirator? If there is, please sign up. Names of the national deputies please be brought out. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u68	Sir, you said that the bill that I passed, which is supported in the first reading by the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, contains the possibility of moving large corporations into this tax scheme. Do you think, at the stage of the second reading, you can place the appropriate safeguards there to accept now on the first reading, and then take your warnings into account at the stage of the second reading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u69	Well, it's theoretically possible, but, Anatoly Stepanovich, it would be good if before the bill was passed, there were some consultations with interested persons, let's say, so that there was no question that you asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u70	Thank you. There are no more questions. There is a refinement. One minute, Anatoly Grizzenko, a clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to explain. Such consultations were held, and more than that, if you could see, he was replaced after these consultations, including on your committee. So I think this is the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u72	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a bill discussion. Yes, the names of the people's deputies please be placed on the information board. Julia Novikova, please. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u73	The honourable chairman of the committee, in his remarks to our bill, said only two things that we allegedly violated the rights of the city authorities and the rights of the people's deputies. The observations of a purely legal nature are contentious and intense. I want to repeat that our bill has no novelty, it just leaves everything in its place and says, "You don't have to increase taxes for small business, you don't have to narrow it down to a small business that follows a simplified system." Let's help a small business in the situation where it's in. So once again, I ask the House of Honor to support our bill is bill 4549, because there really were no substantive observations, nor from the Committee, nor from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And the bill is aimed at the interests of small business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u74	Sergey Vlasenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u75	Sergey Vlasenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Well, first of all, what's needed is to reform the small business taxation system and the simplified taxation system -- it's absolutely clear and absolutely clear. In addition, it should be noted that very, very, very much simplified tax systems are used today, not from the ideology that was established at the time of its introduction. We all know that we have waiters in large restaurants, let's say the cities of Kiev work as private entrepreneurs, regardless of what they actually are in a working relationship. We have the same situation in supermarkets, which are divided into private entrepreneurs, big trend stores, private businesses and so on and so forth. The proposed bills do not completely address the urgent problems that have arisen during the use of a simplified tax system, and some of them introduce a moratorium on the reform of a simplified tax system in general. So I would absolutely support the position of the profiling committee on the need for these bills to be redrafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u76	Zinovi Skutjak, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u77	Please give Kseniya the Mihail word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u78	Xenia Leapina. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u79	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” I would like to point out to my colleagues that this issue, which is currently under discussion, concerns at least a million subjects. And I feel like there's no special attention in the hall, let's just put it mildly. I insist that today there is no publicized, business-friendly option of reforming the simplified system. Today's small business is focused on keeping that simplified system that's been running for many years, I emphasize, actually works for the interests of small business. Yes, there are certain abuses. But I want to point out that they are almost all taxes. There are even more under VAT than under the simplified tax system. And that's no reason to lose this simplified system. And I want to point out that the only bill I would really support right now is Bill 4549. Why? Because it does not actually change the existing system, that is, it responds to the needs of a small and medium-sized enterprise today, but it limits the imaginations of both government and local authorities to the desire to remove the second skin from these entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, that was the whole year before. And this bill of honor to my colleagues, it's like my bill, which, by the way, a committee of profile never wanted to submit to the Supreme Council Hall, it's more likely to react to events that have taken place and may continue to happen. So I propose to support this bill, to accept it. You can take it right now and in general, because it's actually, well, restrictive, but very short, it doesn't have any significant changes, it doesn't get a second reading. And he, I want to stress, solves the problems of raising the stakes and of the government's continued desire to draw extra from entrepreneurs, I emphasize, the funds to the Pension Fund. This gave rise to tremendous tension in 2009. Businesses through the courts, I emphasize, have stopped the government's ruling through the courts. This bill just reinforces the conquest of entrepreneurs. I'm asking you to support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u80	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u81	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, please note Project 4549, this is about features and this bill, it really sets temporary limits. Why? Because unfortunately, we know with you that the business government has collected taxes a quarter ahead. That's why there's no more budget, no more budget. Why? Because the experts in Minfin cannot account for the tax base, the income part of the budget. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that some of the reasons for small business taxation were regulated by Presidential decrees. And so, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this bill is properly put into the order of the day session, because what is not regulated by the President's decrees is purely Consti. According to the Constitution, it is governed by laws. And this law, it will improve the way out of our country. First of all, they're all temporary. When the country comes out of a financial crisis, the crisis will come out -- we'll review this bill, or it won't be necessary. And he's also banning temporary tax hikes, which is small, medium-sized business, which is what we're saying with you about what's not in Ukraine's middle-class, what's working. Why? Because big business, it always finds optimisation schemes from paying taxes. And small business, he's defenseless. Therefore, honourable colleagues can vote, at least in the first reading, this bill 4549. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u82	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare the Smiling.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u83	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We are now considering three alternative bills on the features of the simplified tax system – the National Deputy of Akim's Irina Mikhailovna, Minister of Finance of Umanski Igor Ivanovich and National Deputy Grzenko Anatolia Stepanovich. I fully agree with the argument made by Kseniya Mikhailovna, and I do not want to repeat that the most successful, most meaningful, best-cased bill is the Akim Irina Mikhailovna bill. The bill is designed to provide a mechanism for the protection of the rights of small business entities, which includes a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting. The rights of these entities are now established by the Presidential Decree “On a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities”. Irina Akimov’s draft law makes it impossible to narrow down these rights by the President of Ukraine and the authorities of the state. The bill for the release of natural persons, business subjects, who have chosen a simplified system of taxation and their families from payment of insurance contributions, will also create conditions for a more rapid response to the effects of the global financial crisis. The adoption of the Akim Irina Bill will help to improve the protection of the rights of small business entities with a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting, creating conditions for stimulating the activities of such entities, which in general will have a positive impact on the financial and economic situation in Ukraine. To conclude, I would like once again to support the proposal of Kseniya Mikhailina Lápina to vote in the first reading for the most successful bill, the most meaningful bill, the bill that is really needed today, is the Akimova bill. Please vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u84	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u85	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! At first glance, everyone thinks that such a simple law is being considered today. But it should not be forgotten that this law has a significant impact on the lives of many, not many, but millions, of Ukrainian citizens, who are making production every day, one way or another. So I think we should take a closer look at this issue. With regard to the questions raised today in the three bills. Of course, I think I have to uphold Mrs. Akimov's law today and why. Because this law limits any changes to the deterioration of small business taxation. You know, in the world of this, during the crisis, no state has allowed itself to increase taxes, especially in our crisis in which we are in. That's the first question. No state has allowed itself to increase credit, interest rates in relation to those who receive credit. It's only possible in our country. And I'm seeing, in the last year, a committee that's proven to be a profile, it's working on one system. First of all, it is the laws of the Soviet Union that make the competition of our manufacturers significantly worse or destroy jobs. Then there are other and customs tariffs and other tariffs. Then they increase taxes. And we are not talking today about the creation of jobs that the former authorities were talking about, almost the former authorities, but you remember that each year for a million jobs. And we're talking about how to raise more money, and the question on this committee is how to increase taxes on one or the other taxes and revenue on the budget. But never in a country where we know today that 50 plus minus percent is in the shadow of the fundamental approach of the state, when it doesn't go to the fundamental change in the part of taxation, legalization of income and so on, we're not going to create any of this place. By the way, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to tell you that my law on the legalization of the income of natural, legal persons has been in place for over a year, and I don't understand why the laws are being passed in the Supreme Council for consideration, there are no reporters, or on one or other issues, and the laws in turn -- they don't come. Are we equal, are we different, or do we have any more rights, someone less rights? Today's billing system in Ukraine in our Supreme Council does not correspond to justice and the equal rights of the people's deputies. So I propose, of course, that this law does not cover, or accumulate, all of the problems that are today in terms of small business, and of course we need to reform the system as a whole. But at the same time, if we don't have time for this today, or if we don't have a ready concept, because the committee doesn't work under the guidance of known reporters. So I'm going to propose a base of 45.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u86	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u87	On the basis of 4549, the proposals made here by Mr. Gritsenko and the work done and let this law work until the concept of state is generally approved by the Supreme Council and by the respective executive authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u88	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Question completed. Sergei Teryochin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u89	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to point out two things after the discussion. First, the Tax Customs Committee is first in the number of laws adopted in the Supreme Council and second in the number of these committees by the number of bills under consideration in the Supreme Council. So, Mr. Smith, I'd like to advise you to look at the statistics of the Supreme Council, that's the first. Secondly, if we're talking about the bill of the People's Deputies of Akimov, notice that it prohibits the subject of the legislative initiative, including the people's deputies, we should consider for an indefinite period any bill that relates to taxation. So if we are legally restricting the right of legislative initiative given to the people's deputies by the Constitution of Ukraine, then let's just cancel the Constitution of Ukraine. So once again, I stress the need to complete all three bills, but from my point of view, the government bill has the right to exist as a first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u90	Thank you. Gregory Smythech right on the line, one minute, please, no last names.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u91	Thank you. I've seen my own replication for one reason, I can look at a lot of laws, but whether these laws work for the interests of Ukraine, the economy of Ukraine, whether they work for good or for bad. I personally see that negative because our workers are working abroad, not creating opportunities for jobs in Ukraine, our goods are not competitive because we've opened borders. And this is the credit for the first part of this committee that the master has just said to my address. So I count it this way: I need to be guided by the national patriotic interests of the first act, and then I want to talk about some quantity or quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u92	I think we're all going to express our strong gratitude for the fine work we've done, and it's going to be okay. Dear colleagues! Maybe that's how we use it, because now I feel that there are differences, that we put these three bills to a signal vote, we would feel that we don't burn these bills in general. Do you mind if we make a signal vote on these three bills? So if you support me, I'm putting a bill to the signal vote: Akmova and Novikova. [[Registration number 4549]] Please vote. [[17:14:07]] For 216 Dear colleagues! This is a signal vote, what are you? Calm down. A government draft Law on the characteristics of applying a simplified system of taxation, accounting, and reporting of small business entities is now under way. I want to vote. [[17:14:48]] For a hundred and And finally, honourable colleagues, the third bill, the author is Anatoly Grizzenko. [[Registration number 4549-2]] 4549-2. Please vote. [[17:15:20.]] For-154 Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you, Bill 4549 voted 216, Bill 4549-1 voted 145, and in favour of Bill 4549-2 154 of the People's Deputies. Just get your bearings so you don't burn the bill. And now I'm putting to the vote a proper registration please pay attention! [[B in m in s a l in]] It is appropriate to register for adoption on the basis of the draft Law (Registration No. 4549) on the characteristics of applying a simplified system of taxation, calculation and reporting of small business subjects during the period of economic withdrawal of Ukraine from the financial crisis (by Akimov and Novikova). Please vote. [[17:16:27]] For 237 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you. The draft Law amending subparagraph 4.4.2 of article 4, paragraph 4.4, of the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Taxpayers' Obligations to Budgets and State Funds is being reviewed. [[Registration number 2582]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u93	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, I'm not going to read the report, I'd like to tell you what's going on. Look, we decided two years ago that taxpayers could report electronically. It's like the right decision not to carry a bunch of papers there. But what happened after? Tax officials and tax payers came up with companies of private interest who started raising money to issue keys, issue electronic security to certify someone. I mean, roughly, today is a completely paradoxical situation: in order for the taxpayer to perform his constitutional function and pay these taxes to the state, he has to pay the money to the private company before he has to get access to this electronic reporting. There's no such thing anywhere in the world. It's from a series of Tender Houses, behind which are the horned people who once created the Tender Chamber. I can also tell you just in case today that this kind of initiative is given in the law, in the draft Law on Evaluation and Evaluation, on Accounting and Accounting. We need, I urge you all to be very careful when a function of constitutional interpretation begins to be associated with private companies, usually occurs, you know what language is the gecheft. So the theory of this law is simple. If electronic reporting, then the taxpayer is entitled to free receipts from both the State and the keys, and electronic signatures, and electronic reporting. Therefore, it may be free of charge that the report is submitted by electronic means. If we don't adopt this law, and we recommend it as a basis, then we'll continue to give a sign to all of these intermediaries, all of them, you know, who are related to the State Tax Service or the Pension Fund, or to the social funds of private companies, and continue to collect money at the expense of taxpayers or those who contribute money to social funds. Please support this project in the first reading. Then set up a task force to take these private agents out of the relationship between payers and the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, if you have a question, please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please be excused. Gregory Smythech, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u95	Thank you. Sergey Anatolyovich, this is a rare case where I agree with you, because you are, indeed, right. The truth is that we don't just have agents in the tax system that apply to reporting, and you said it right. And we have other organizations, starting with, if you'll excuse me, from the fire station of any district before, in conclusion, there's a tax inspection. And it's really creating additional possibilities for, so to speak, it's legal to take from our entrepreneurs or from organizations the extra revenue that goes into the private sector, the private pocket. And I really agree with you that this law should be supported in the first reading. But at the same time, I have a question for you. You know clearly that we've been fighting for the cancellation of the tender for two years, which is what we call a coffee house, a chamber that has been harassing tenders throughout the country. And you know how much money went into one pocket. You know that the same law was passed today by almost the same persons, and you were silent. Then I have the question, "Who are these people, why didn't you say anything?" And if you do have a principle, call them families.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u96	Thesis one. Mr. Smythuch, the draft was unanimously voted in favour of all members of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. Most of these deputies belong to your political power. That's the first one. I mean, I get it. Question two or the thesis two. You may not have heard what I was saying today. In voting for the Chamber of Tenders. I firmly opposed the adoption of this law in the version that was proposed. [[This new version]] Look at the transcript. And the last. Dear friends, let us take private agents in the relationship between the constitutional obligations of a citizen or a company and the state. This is the first step. We have eight companies today that, well, I can tell you, they're there, and I'll tell you where they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u97	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Gregory Smythew. And Xenia Lapina. Please, Gregory Smythech, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I was forced to go out and point out once again what kind of mess we have in different places where they're additionally collecting what is called hidden taxes from Ukrainian citizens, and then they go to private, so to speak. So these are all the obstacles created by different organizations, the intermediaries that have a bearing, including on the direction of one or the other departments, they're directed, what's called a hidden form, to profitless profits, shadow profits, etc., so to speak, an illegal system. A man comes, he has to pay, he wants to report -- he has to buy the program, pay his fees, and so on and so forth. And, of course, we all know when we meet Ukrainian citizens, in election campaigns, or in working time. The execution of parliamentary requests, the citizens of Ukraine, the citizens who create jobs that create us the benefits that work every day, they say, "Take the middlemen, the bribes that grow like ticks on the body." Excuse me, he's talking about how to get us out of these fights. And you know that not only do these battles mix up normal development, but they're also forced, these entrepreneurs, to pay the circulation costs that aren't always enough, and they mix the normal civilized development of the economy. You know that our Ukraine, because of this procedure too, has on. We're almost in the last place of corruption, so to speak, of degrees. Why is this happening? Because we allowed, the Supreme Council, including, to create such a struggle. You remember when we took changes to the legislation that regulates construction issues and recorded these battles that each department created to do so. There's no contribution to the development of fire services there, environmental services and so on, and so on? I want to point out that most of these agents are created by government organizations that are held at the expense of government budgets or local budgets. So wait, what does the prosecutor do, and does he perform his duties? Why does she allow it? Why do local organizations register such intermediaries, and on what basis do they function? So there's a lot of questions here. And I believe that this law must be adopted, not just in part, but in general in the entire system of the state, so to speak, the regulation must be put in order once and for all. To ban any intermediation from our entrepreneurs and our citizens. Then it's going to be a step towards both development and the economy, and the rights of citizens, and so on. So I ask you to support this bill in the first reading. As for the second reading, if anyone has a comment or a wish, please write and discuss it for a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u99	Xenia Lapina, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u100	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” I certainly recommend that the Supreme Council support this bill, because it is really a step in overcoming these phenomena, which are now very hampering the development of entrepreneurship and, in fact, being taken to the Ukraine's perspective. Because when we talk about our investment climate, all our partners ask one question: What is the value of all bureaucratic procedures in Ukraine, how can we work here? And the answer to that question is unfortunately not very competitive for Ukraine. The cost of all business procedures is very high. As a rule, this money does not go into the state. This money goes to a variety of businesses. This does not apply only to tax reporting. Just the issue of tax reporting, which this law deals with, came up very sharply at the end of 2009. Literally hundreds of references from entrepreneurs, collective appeals were for the reason that at one point in time, they were actually demanding crazy costs for this electronic reporting. So from a comfortable form that's actually going to be very, very much, to greet the state and encourage the state, this form of electronic reporting has just been transformed into a way to make a copy of it to the middleman. But the same thing happens in any other area. We have the same situation today with a national register of natural, legal persons. As soon as you want to get your report and help, go pay your bills. All registers are run by businesses. Enterprises are made to earn profits. The state function starts not as a government function, but as a way of earning. It seems to me that after taking this first step that we now have to take by voting this law, we have to take a number more steps, we have to take away this income and leave the state's functions -- the state's. Because they're prescribed by the laws and the Constitution, to get rid of this unnecessary mess that just takes away our perspective and makes our investment climate worse. Therefore, I ask you to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u101	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The bill is closed. Registration number, I remind you again, 2582. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt, on the basis of the draft law amending subparagraph three, paragraph 4.4.2, paragraph 4.4. of the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Taxpayers' Obligations to Budgets and State Objective Funds. [[Registration number 2582]] Please vote. [[17:30:21]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider a draft law amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of payment of taxpayers' obligations to budgets and state trust funds. [[on the reduction of financial costs in the repayment of tax liabilities]] [[Registration number 4240]] But the reporter, Ukrainian national deputy Akimova Irina Mikhailovna, informed me that she was ill. If we could look at it and if the Supreme Council would support it as a basis, as recommended by the committee, we could look at it. No, he had to be put off at the time. I'm asking for a microphone from the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u102	Honorable colleagues, the thought contained in this law, as proposed by the national deputy Akimimov, is correct. What it's about is if a taxpayer sends money to a bank that doesn't transfer it to the Tax Inspectorate for any reason, independent of the taxpayer, that tax payer has to be exempt from fines and financial obligations for non-payment of taxes. If he has enough money in his account and all the documents are properly drawn up, then the bank should be responsible for not paying the budget. We don't pay in cash. We use a bank. Regrettably, when problems with the banking system began now, many payers who fulfilled their obligations began to be driven by the tax services, since in fact the money was not credited to the bank, even though the money was at the expense of the taxpayer. There's a big problem, some problems with definitions, and that's what our Supreme Council's scientific expertise has said. The committee therefore proposes to support the initiative of the Akimov People’s Deputy to base the bill. And for the second reading, it's very careful to reconcile it with the novels that we brought about the banks and their recapitalizations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u103	Dear colleagues! Perhaps we will listen to the committee’s opinion and make a decision, that is, on the basis of the committee’s working out and adopting the law. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal of a committee on the adoption of the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of payment of taxpayers' obligations to budgets and state trust funds. [[on the reduction of financial costs in the repayment of tax liabilities]] Please vote. [[17:33:48]] For 316 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've got five bills left to consider, and since there is a government representative, I have this request for you, let's continue the meetings of the Supreme Council for 15 minutes, that is, by 18.15, and we'll consider these bills in order for the people who are waiting for the day to receive satisfaction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u104	Can't we cut it short?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u105	Well, I would then like to support a reduced procedure to consider these bills. Please vote, Your Honor. Please, hold on, I'm addressing all of you. [[17:34:37]] For a hundred and Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on excise duty rates for ethyl alcohol and alcoholic beverages is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the excise duty on spirits of distillates and spirits obtained by the race of grapes or grape lees]] The reporter is Ukraine's national deputy, Bolur Antonin Volodymyrna. Will you report immediately for all? Please, Terjehohin Sergey Anatolyevich. Dear colleagues, this is Bill 3345, signed as authors, co-authors, practically all factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u106	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, I didn't expect to have a reduced procedure, so the report on my three letters, it's big. The main idea of this bill is simple. We've introduced new rates for horse alcohol in Ukrainian production. This was done before we were in crisis. Today, overall sales of Ukrainian cognacs have decreased by more than 40 percent. I remind you that in order to produce Ukrainian cognac, it takes at least three years of stamina and at least three years of investment. Unfortunately, we don't go into this system of these excises that we predicted before. The bill, which is proposed by many national deputies from these factions, is therefore proposed to delay the introduction of these bets for three years. To put what was on January 1st of this year, leave until January 1st of the following year. Then raise in proportion to the proportion that we wrote to raise vodka and other alcoholic products. I can just remind you that 400,000 Ukrainian citizens work in this field of wine and brandy production, and first of all, I remind you that this is the southern part of Ukraine. So given that 100 percent of the members of our committee supported this project, I might ask Catherine Timofievna to say something about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u107	Please, please, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u108	To confirm these. Given that the Ministry of Agrarian Policy supports this bill and the branch of the association, it is proposed that it be accepted in the first reading and in general, because there is only a change in the time-limits for the introduction of rates. Thank you for your attention, and I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the address if you wish. Please sign up for the speech, your honors. Schmidt, please. Catherine's right to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u110	Dear fellow national MPs, I am absolutely under the impression. The correctness of the words spoken by the committee’s chairman, Sergey Anatolyevich Teryohin. This bill was worked out and reviewed by all the manufacturers of cognac and wine. You know, it's a good thing to raise excise duties in order to fill our budget, but there are times when these excise congregations are hampering the expansion of production. Or even worse: they make production shrink sharply because it's going to be cost-effective. That's the picture we have this year. It's just that our country's wine and horse factories have started to rise, and we've just started to fill up the markets with quality products of domestic production, and we've all enjoyed it, because it's been celebrated by Western experts, different foreign experts, how much the quality of the wine business in Ukraine is rising. Yes, today we have a very difficult situation. In fact, by 40, even a little bit more, the percentage has been reduced by the production of domestic cognacs, the production of wine has been seriously reduced, because all of this has a long process, these are years. And if you consider that agriculture is involved in this, growing grapes, and it's grown in less than a year, and people have invested in it, and what happens when there's no proper market for it when it's cut.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u111	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u112	When domestic production is cut short. In exchange, there will be some foreign, often inequitable, because it rarely comes high - quality because it is expensive. So I'm very much asking, let's support this law, it's just delaying the introduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u113	Eugene Kzarykov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u114	Please pass the word to Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u115	Adam Martinyuk. Gregory Smythech will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, are going to have to break a certain tradition today, because when we look at the bills where a colleague from the relevant committee is reporting, he always brings something wrong. Today, Sergey Anatoliyovich finally came to the conclusion that in December 2008, he did a great deal of stupidity, sorry for the non-parliamentary expression, because it was from this parliamentary rostrum that he told us the exact opposite of what he saw today. It was then that they lobbyed a bill that introduced such tariffs, excise congregations for cognac, that we would reduce production by 79 percent during this year. And here I have official information that, in this connection, the state budget has been understated by the State budget of about 250 million dollars. That's very good, I would like to emphasize once again, very well, that there's finally insight and there's a proposal to adopt this bill. So I propose to all of you, indeed, to vote in favour of this law, which minimizes ours, the one who voted in favour of the Ukrainian Law of December 25, 2008, which established such excises not congregations, but rather, excuse me, elections. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u117	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. After the question has been resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I join Adam Ivanovich in not repeating myself in saying that this is the first law in this field that has been going on in recent years to meet those manufacturers and those who are working to increase this product. You know, there were two territories in the Soviet Union that produced this product. It was the Caucasus, the Armenian region, part of the Georgian small region, and it was Ukraine, part of Moldova. And Ukraine’s external markets during this time were wise not only to lose markets, but it was wise to allow our markets to fill in quality products from other parts of the world. And often these alcohols that we're supplied with, and here they're distributed, they don't match the quality. And you know, traditionally, the South of Ukraine, where there's really a lot of people working, they have a lot of potential in this area. And you remember that the Supreme Council supported my bill, which was designed to direct the one percent congregation to the restoration of vineyards and gardening, which gives one step the opportunity to re-create this branch and actually reproduce the Ukrainian tradition of producing quality products. And by this law, if we support it right now, I'm sure it's necessary to support it, allowing people working in this field to breathe fresh air as a result of this financial crisis that caused, including this sector. So I'd like to call a committee, and fortunately, a second compliment I'm saying is that it's always treated in such a position that it's advocated national interests and focused all its efforts on responding in a timely manner if there's a problem. And don't let go of what we have to do to review some law, because it allows us to recreate, create and preserve jobs, and that's the fate of our people. So I would like to ask everyone to support this bill in the first reading and in general. There's nothing to think about, we have to act on, because this sector needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u119	Thank you, sit down. Taras Cranwell, the non-fractionals have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u120	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In just one minute, I'm betting, and at last, common sense, common sense, and understanding of what a hurrah is! Cavalry attack – especially in such a painful and sensitive area as the subcontractive goods cannot be worked. Yeah, excises are supposed to go up. Yes, one day, they will, God will give, then when we have both wages and the social level are compared to European, and they are compared to European. I want to believe that. But any leaping action will never produce a good result. And I think that the same sobering thing that happens in horseback is going to happen, and in other under-taxation products, where we have individual deputies running around here, telling us how well they've grown, and how the health of the people as they've grown into the budget, we're going to see that there's no health benefits -- all the surrogate goods have gone up, and there's tremendous damage to the budget because the smuggling has gone. So let's think about it, and in the following laws, so that we don't have to correct it again later.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis and as a whole. That's why I'm going to put the bill on the basis of the draft law, which is the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on excise duty rates for ethyl and alcoholic beverages. [[Registration number 3345]] [[concerning the excise duty on spirits of distillates and spirits obtained by the race of grapes or grape lees]] Please vote on the basis. [[17:47:11]] For 331 They took it as a foundation. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole, and this proposal was supported in the statements made by the deputies. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u122	There's no objection. Then I put to the vote a proposal for adoption in general to amend the Ukrainian Act on excise duty rates for ethyl and alcoholic beverages. [[concerning the excise duty on spirits of distillates and spirits obtained by the race of grapes or grape lees]] Registration number 3345. Please vote. [[17:48:03]] For 331 The law is passed. Sergey Teryochina's microphone. He has the right to a replica. Well, it was called.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u123	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, welcome back. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that all the initiatives to raise excise congregations, including the Ukrainian horseman, have come out, unfortunately not from the Committee on Tax, Customs, but from the Committee on Budgets and several times the Committee on Tax Policy has asked the Supreme Council for guidance so that this does not happen. So let's do that, you learn the material part before you blame someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u124	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u125	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we did the right thing, but one thing we did not foresee is that the situation that has arisen has to do with the decline in the purchasing power of the population. So let's do everything we can to raise this purchasing power and raise the wages. And it will worsen with the fact that the smuggling of these cognacs and all the rest of the territory of Moldova, Transnistria, from other countries has been compromised. And because of that, I would ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to get closer to the debate faster, there was a wide round table yesterday, and we were looking at the issue of granting the State Customs Service the status of the law enforcement authority and the right to carry out operational and search activities, as in all of Europe's countries. And then we could stop the smuggling that goes on, including cognacs, and have an impact on the acceptance of not only excises on domestic consumption, but also.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u126	Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Single Customs Tariff is being announced for consideration. [[on the procedure for the application of special duties]] The rapporteur is Head of the State Customs Service, Makarenko Anatoly Viktorovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee of Sergei Anatoliyovich Terjohin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u127	Thank you. Mr. Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, proposed for your consideration of the bill, drafted by the State Customs Service of Ukraine for the execution of the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to eliminate existing contradictions and differences between the Ukrainian One Customs Tariff Act and the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Taxpayers' Obligations to Budgets and State Purpose Funds, and the Law on External Economic Activities. The draft amends articles 15, 17 and 25 of the Single Customs Tariff Act. These amendments refer to the provisions of article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on “One Customs Tariff” in accordance with part seven of article 31 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity and articles 17 and 25 of the Ukrainian Law on the Procedure for the Repayment of Taxpayers’ Liabilities to Budgets and State Trust Funds”. The purpose of the project is to introduce a mechanism when, at the same time as the inter-ministerial commission of international trade in anti-dumping, countervailing or special measures for non-intellectual imports of the product is stopped or the suspension of the granting of preferences and duties on imports established by the national legislation of Ukraine; the second is to remove the commissions in the part of the granting of delays and the collection of amounts of late payment of the duty, the counting of pennies and the fixing of the periods of his return on excessive payment by payers. As a result of the adoption of the law, the draft law will resolve the existing differences between the positions of the above-mentioned laws of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill does not require additional material and financial costs. The bill is supported by all interested central government authorities. Please support the bill and accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u128	Sit down, Anatoly Viktorovich. Thank you. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u129	Thank you. Dear Anatoly Viktorovich, note the Constitutional Court’s decision on the 13 - percent bonus. So by analogy, what you're proposing is not part of the system of constitutional regulation of taxation, but the ideas you're proposing are correct. So according to the scientific expertise and the Tax Policy Committee, we're proposing that this bill be based on it, it's important, it helps our exporters to compete in the external markets. First of all, traditional products are metallurgy, trumpets, chemistry, agriculture. But we have to make article 15 of this project in an editorial that does not conflict with the Constitutional Court's decision on a temporary allowance or so-called 13 percent import allowance. Thank you for your attention. The committee proposes to base this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, there is no objection to adopting this bill as a basis? None. Well, I'd like you to prepare for the vote then, dear colleagues. A proposal is put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Single Customs Tariff. [[on the procedure for the application of special duties]] Registration number 4523. Please vote. [[17:54:51]] For 139 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the draft law, registration number 4523. Once again, please vote. [[17:55:17]] For-147 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff is being announced, registration number 4726. [[about the size of the bets]] The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economy Valerius Teziyovich Friday. Correspondent is the head of the committee, Sergey Anatoliovich Teryohin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u131	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft of the Ukrainian Act “To make changes to the Customs Tariff”, which provides for the adjustment of import duty rates for the following goods and products. A large horn of cattle is a decrease from 5.15 percent to 1 percent with the aim of taking action to boost animal development. On slabs, glass and other glass wastes -- a decrease from 5 percent to zero percent, with the aim of increasing the use of glass waste in the technological process of making glass, reducing the cost of natural gas and raw materials. For shipbuilding equipment that is not produced in Ukraine from half a percent, five percent to zero in order to upgrade the existing shipbuilding technology base in Ukraine. The bill also provides for a detailed industrial equipment that is not produced in Ukrainian businesses, which is used in the automotive industry and also from a reduction in the corresponding duty from 2-5 percent to zero percent. This measure is aimed at increasing the production volume of automobiles in response to the need for modern equipment. The adoption of the bill will improve the work of economic and external economic operators, stimulate the production of finished products, and increase the competitiveness of national producers. Please support the draft Ukrainian Customs Tariff Amendment Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u132	Thank you. Please sit down, Valery Teziyovich. Sergei Anatoliyovich, please, this is 4726 bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u133	Dear colleagues! Very briefly, the talk was given. What is proposed? On live animals, reduce import duty rates to one percent, with the glass pane used for our industry, to produce ready glass products from 5 to 0. The nuclear reactor is up to zero. Because you know what's appropriate for restocking some nuclear stations. And in some positions, 85th group from two fifths to zero. This is primarily about information, the information sector. The committee. It's a very simple law. The committee suggests that it be accepted in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, no objection? Please, Gregory Smythech, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u135	Thank you. Dear National MPs, as proposed by this project, I believe that it should be rejected and re-readed. Why? Of course, Ukraine today, if we are to analyze the agricultural sector and the state that has taken place in our livestock, it needs immediate State intervention. And here I agree in terms of removing all restrictions on the carriage of living animals, so to speak, weights, right? But I cannot agree that we are in the same law proposing other proposals related to shipbuilding and so forth. Because zero rate doesn't allow you to develop a whole complex. We need to look wider. If this is a whole line, or a factory “under the key”, as it is common to say, it is one situation. And when the equipment comes in a separate section, I think it's inappropriate for Ukraine to do it at this stage. So I propose that this bill be sent to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u136	Who else insists? Katerina Vaschuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u137	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take a closer look at this bill. First of all, it's only about critical imports. That's what Ukraine doesn't have. And that's what will help restore the gene pool of Ukrainian animalry. This will help to improve the work of shipbuilding and other industrial enterprises. There is no product produced in Ukraine that is of critical import. So I'm addressing you and I'm asking you to support this bill, and you can work with it on the second reading if you need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u138	Dear National MPs, Yuri Carmazin, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u139	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I see everyone is tired. I don't want us to import anything, especially when the customs are falling. Now we've learned that it's only about tribal cattle, which is what Catherine Vaschuk was talking about, exactly about tribal cattle. One. The second one is about the pantry. So it's about the energy economy, because the whole of Europe is going to save gas and we're going to spend it. And the third. I had to be in Szczecen on a ship-to-ship in Poland, where our Ukrainian ship was retrofitted, named after the huge patriot Boris Fedorovich Derevjanka, who was shot in Odessa, editor of the newspaper Evening Odessa. And I'll tell you that I asked myself, "Why is the Polish shipyard fully filled, and our factories: Odessa, Mikolai, are all standing?" But it's because the shipbuilding equipment is heavily taxed. We lose on our imports, we lose around, and the orders go there. I asked these questions, I saw the answers to them. So, it's the right thing to do, if we want our own production to flourish, it's the right thing to do, maybe one of the few right proposals that have recently given the least economics: to support now and accept these bills in both the first and second readings. Because that's how we're going to go for the expansion and the automobile, and the shipbuilding, and the other, and the reproduction of the livestock, so we don't bring the skin here, so we don't bring emulsion and everything. Taking the base that we have now, plant, still in stock, about 30 percent if there's enough intelligence in MinAPC to activate microwave technology if they ever listen to it. So we can have serious economic growth. I urge you to vote for the feather.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u140	Thank you. Who else insists, dear colleagues? Oh, no? Well, please, Sergey Teryohin, the microphone. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like you to pay attention to who has this bill, in a comparative table. It's really about tribal cattle, it's about slobs that come in here to make ready production, and it's about PMI machines. Well, nuclear reactors. I mean, there's nothing there anymore. If there's any suspicion that there's something you want to import without tax, well, to the extreme, let's take this bill as a basis, and then look, there's nothing there. But under the transcript, I can say that everything you've been told from the Supreme Council stands for reality. And there's, you know, no effect of these tender rooms. I mean, it's up to you to decide, but we suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act “On Amendments to the Customs Tariff of Ukraine”. [[about the size of the bets]] Please vote. [[6:05:25]] For 134 The decision is not taken. For a second reading, I propose that this bill, registration number 4726, be sent. [[18:05:49]] For-137 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we have eight minutes or more to work here. There are two other draft laws: 4770 and 5134. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws. [[repealing certain provisions that do not comply with the applicable legislation]] Should we consider it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u143	A little time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u144	One moment, dear fellows. The point is, one minute, and we continued for fifteen minutes. It's about making this law -- pay attention! – The Supreme Council decrees paragraphs 2 and 3 of section 2 of the Ukrainian Act of 19 February 2009 to exclude certain laws of Ukraine. The law takes effect from the time of publication. Let's let the deputy minister tell us what we're talking about, and let's figure out, they've been waiting all day. Please, Mikhailo Alexanderovich, let him tell you what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u145	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! When the Bill 3515 was considered in the Supreme Council, it took into account a rule that stipulated that petroleum products imported for industrial processing under direct contracts for Ukrainian oil companies that have all the technological stages of producing petroleum products under a list determined by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the Act of Ukraine on Excise Assembly Rates for Certain Goods is not subject to excise duty. In order to avoid tax evasion and to prevent the purposeless use of the oil products listed by other operators, it was suggested that additional controls should be put in place by the customs authorities of the petroleum products to meet the standards and to establish a reprocessing order for petroleum products by domestic oil refineries that have all the stages of the process of processing oil. However, the decision of the committee has removed this rule, the Supreme Council has accepted this proposal and the adopted Act of Ukraine of 19 February 2009 amending certain laws of Ukraine does not contain such a rule. At the same time, at the end of the day, there was still a situation that focused on its implementation. In order to remedy this situation, there is a request to remove it from the Final Regulations, because what is written there, except that it needs 8 million dollars a year and 26 million dollars a year to make money, today this entire system of State-of-the-art organs is fully implemented in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on Standardization and Certification. Therefore, a request to support this technical issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u146	Please, Sergey Anatolyovich, turn on the microphone, Terjehoina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u147	Dear colleagues! I have nothing to add to what the previous reporter said. There's a conflict between two norms. You remember, you introduced this standard in order, let's say, to take diesel with a lot of sulfur, to bring it to Ukraine, and to our oil refineries to take that sulfur and improve quality. And for that, we didn't rule out double excise taxation. Now there are two standards. If they stay, well, that system just doesn't work. What the government has offered is true. Because you have to take the excise once, not several times, as suggested by this transitional norm. You have to decide, but it's really technical, it's not that big a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u148	Dear colleagues, may I put it to a vote? No objections? I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the amendment to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws. [[repealing certain provisions that do not comply with the applicable legislation]] Registration number 4770. Please vote. [[18:10:38]] For-137 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for re-reading draft Law 4770. [[18:11:01]] For-126 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we have one left. One minute, I'll be right there. Dear colleagues, let people sit at work, let them get used to the fact that four days a month or eight days can be spent in the Supreme Council. We'll wait for them to gather. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act (for the moment on electric conductors) (Registration No. 5134). If there is a state position, there will be a vote, if there is no vote, there will be no vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Valery Teziyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill foresees an increase in import duties from 2 to 10 percent for electric conductors classified by the goods subcategories listed in the bill. The proposed change in the import duty implies that the capacity of cable-leading equipment is increasing. It is predicted that this will increase output, save jobs, and earn extra income. I would like to point out that when the bill was being drafted, of course, there was a situation where there was actually a significant increase in imports of these kinds of products. For your help: In the 11 months 2009 compared to the corresponding 2008 period, imports of this product decreased by 10 times. So to make it clear what the situation is today with this type of product. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u150	Please. Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u151	Dear colleagues, this is one example of what is being done to protect the Ukrainian market from the usually decomposed product produced abroad. Unfortunately, the deputy minister said that something had gone down there, so I understand that he no longer supports an increase in duty on the guides. But for several years, we have suffered from decomposed productions, electrical conductors first of all, from third world countries. You know, if there wasn't any scandals here, I wouldn't say their names, but you know. So the government's proposal to increase to 10 percent of the tax on electric conductors is supported by a committee. And he offers to accept this proposal in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u152	Thank you. Do you understand the offer, Your Honor? Well, Gregory Smythech. 30 seconds, because 30 seconds, because we don't have a decision to make right now. Please, there's only one minute left.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u153	At first glance, we're really protecting our market, but let's think about this situation, isn't this law coming into existence if it's adopted by the Supreme Council, so called at the expense of consumers, an increase in the state budget? That's the first question. The second question is, of course, that the non-produced product should be equipped with an additional moment. But if this product is not produced by Ukraine, you have to ask, what did the Ministry of Economics do today to restore this production? Because you know that most of the production for this sector, especially for both battle and other purposes, is being exported to us today. Because our branch is almost completely destroyed. So I believe that this law can only be adopted in the first reading. And by the way. to read the second reading carefully to see what we had in this regard, what we have to do and what we need to do to get at least a fraction of these funds to be sent for the restoration of this product. Because, in fact, today's overwhelming elements of this product.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-11-m1.u154	Dear colleagues, I am proposing the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[on the tariff for electric conductors]] It has been said that it is for the protection of the domestic manufacturer that the factories are not working for us in this regard. Please vote. [[18:15:57]] For-98 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine It's too late. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its plenary work from 10 a.m. to Friday.
