ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:08]] They registered cards in the 428 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Kostenko Pavel Ivanovich. Let us welcome our colleague, wishing him good health. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the February 9, 2010, plenary meeting. 16 questions on the agenda were considered: 2 decrees were adopted, 8 bills were adopted as a basis, 1 bill was sent for re-reading, and 4 bills were rejected. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes away from speaking to the National Deputies for proposals, statements, and messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. It's a recording. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Alexander Steshenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. The National Deputy of the Sanchenk is handing over the right to speak. Next up will be Michael Schershung.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! What happened in Crimea on this Sunday is otherwise not called an attempt to seize power. We have facts that confirm that some 200,000 votes cast, more precisely, as Mr. Yanukovic is not. We are able to prove with the facts, examples of timely and properly documented documents that about a quarter of Mr. Yanukovic's votes in favour of him in Crimea have been falsified. Let me give you some examples. The first constituency, Commission No. 45, still cannot produce an outcome with regard to the opposition created in order to prevent the manifestation, so to speak, and the documentation and, accordingly, presentation to the public of the facts of mass falsification on this commission, when 132 invalid ballots are counted against Mr. Janukovic. The Commission is still sitting. I'll give you the following example, the whole Saturday of the 6th, Sunday of the 7th and Monday of the 8th, the third District Election Commission in the city of Jankoe in my home Crimea. All of this was due to the planning, preparation and implementation of a large-scale system of forgeries related to home voting in the district. Here I have a list of more than 50, i.e. one third of the polling stations in this district, where the number of voters at home exceeded 8, 10 and sometimes 20 percent. I can give specific examples: the village of Solené Lake, 15 per cent of those voting at home, 93rd Precinct, Novopavlovka, voted 18 per cent at home. While past election statistics indicated that this percentage was 1.5-2. I can give even more extensive examples, so to speak, of loose counterfeiting in the Lenin region, 25 per cent in the settlement of Osovina and so on and so on. So here's a total of over 250 polling stations that I've been talking about, where it's already going to go down, so to speak, the scale of this falsification. But I can argue that it was held at every polling station in Crimea. In addition, it was not the only option of falsification. In the ninth district, so to speak, it all went the same way. The 10th District Electoral Commission, in fact, is not in a position to legally take the results of the vote at all, because as soon as the first section of section 15 identified the falsification and voting at home on statements written by one hand, the tenth District Commission and electoral documents were adopted not in the course of the meeting, but, excuse me, as property and data.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u3	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u4	Chairman of the Commission and his computer technology officer. Without the participation of the Commission, without the announcement of results and without the conclusion of the outcome in the entire district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u5	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian Block faction. Next up will be the Olympics, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u6	Mikola Shershun, Block Lithuania. Dear Head, fellows! This year, there's a 20-year farm movement in Ukraine. During this time, farmers have survived both the years of takeoff and the fall. But today, agriculture and agriculture in general are faced with acute problems caused by the lack of adequate state support, unfavourable lending and bank robberies, land disorder, such as the high cost of registering land leases, the disparity of prices for agricultural products and material and technical resources. A particularly difficult year for peasants was 2009, when agricultural sector lending was virtually suspended. The peasants were never expecting government funding for the sale of cattle for the sown sugar beet for the disposal of credit resources. The Agrarian Fund has not been able to fully fund the deal. Overall, in 2009, the APC’s funding for 2008 was reduced by six times. As a result of today's spring and field work deficits, it is not possible for agrarians to purchase mineral fertilizers, fuel, seeds in the necessary quantities. So it's threatened to carry out a whole range of agricultural work. So today, urgent measures are needed to stabilize the situation of the APC, providing, inter alia, adequate financial support for agricultural products. Simplification of the accounting and reporting system for farmers through the establishment of a single farm tax, the provision of non-profit organization status to service cooperatives, the protection of domestic producers from imports, meat-milk production, the stabilisation of the agricultural market through the improvement of the efficient activity of the agricultural fund. One of the main conditions for sustainable farming is the creation of the State Land Bank. The implementation of the above tasks depends largely on our Parliament. In particular, the Farmers’ Association is asking to expedite the consideration of the draft Law on the Single Tax for Individual Farmers. Its adoption will allow farmers once a year to pay a single fixed tax per hectare of land rather than spend a lot of time reporting in nearly 10 facilities. In addition, there is an urgent need to return to the review and adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on State support for agricultural service providers, granting them the status of non-profit organisations by adopting a second reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on activities of non-profit organizations. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the "Block of Lithuania" faction, I propose at the legislative level to protect the interests of the national farmer, to help the Ukrainian village and the people working on the ground. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u7	National MP Viacheslav Olijnik, faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. Next is Anatoly Kinach. Does he give you the right to speak? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u8	Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". Presidential candidate Viktor Janukovic turned to the Ukrainians after the second round of elections and addressed him in Russian. Nobody's against Russian. Our Constitution guarantees free language development and gives everyone the opportunity to develop them. But the fact that a person who sees himself as President of Ukraine is addressing his own people in a foreign language of the state was just wild. It was an accident. Why Was It Accidental? Because it was a signal. It was a signal for the attack on Ukrainian language, on Ukrainian spirituality and culture, actually a signal for such a long-awaited attack on our independence and freedom. And that's why Janukovic has always held himself as the one for whom Ukraine was and remains only a territory for the gas transport system, which, contrary to the law, he wants to capture in our country by creating a so-called consortium. And Janukovič's signal was immediately heard, for example, in Kiev, raiding raiders in masks into the writer's bookstore "Sivo", because at Yanukovitch you can do this, at Yanukovich's bookstore you don't need. And he heard that signal and sent his greetings to the sad country. Therefore, the question of whether the Ukrainian people dreamed of such a President, including the so-called Ukrainian Patriots of the Za Donbas parliamentary group, is probably what it will be called when they criticized the Prime Minister, sailed, bludgeoned, and said that they were all the same. And yet, even this has optimism, because Janukovitch's signal has also been heard by the Ukrainians, for whom Ukraine has never been and will never be the territory where our nation once lived, and so the elections are falsified, it can be judged both by the previous speech and by all the parts of the forgerys that have exceeded the scale of the falsifications of 2004. And the last. Yanukovich’s appeal to the Ukrainians in Russian is another testimony to his unique ignorance, and so he could not have disgraced Ukraine in front of the whole world, for unless he could imagine today that French President Sarkazi had addressed the French in German, and Angela Merkel, for example, addressed the French. So he doesn't even feel like it's a state that's Ukraine. And finally. Taking into account the unique features of Janukovich's intellect, but if it hadn't been for the Lord's sake, and he would have had to take an oath, I'm convinced that he should take an oath, not in the Persian Gospel, but on the shrine of the Ukrainian nation, which he wrote, well, the famous international poet Anton Chekov. [[I don't think that's gonna happen.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u9	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach has the right to speak with his colleague Har. Get ready for Rybuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u10	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, distinguished national MPs! The election of the President of the State is our unique opportunity to give an objective assessment of the state of affairs in the state, to find effective ways of coping with the crisis, to form a viable, accountable power to the people. An attempt to undermine the will of Ukrainian citizens is essentially an agony that undermines Ukraine's economy, undermining our international authority. All over the world, opposition claims to be falsified, and the Ukrainian authorities beat another record. And at a time when virtually all international observers, the structures of the European Union, the OSCE recognized the elections in Ukraine as transparent and democratic, Timoshenko, the authorities in Ukraine are beating with future confidence in our state, if possible organizing an equal, mutually beneficial cooperation between Ukraine and international partners. Ukraine entered in 2010 as the only state in Europe without a state budget, without an anti-crisis programme, with the worst indicators of socio-economic development. The value added tax on businesses is already 23 billion dollars, the advance payments are 12 billion, and the energy sector is in deep crisis. The issue of gas relations needs to be addressed immediately, as the record price in Europe for natural gas makes the basic economy of Ukraine bankrupt. And what happened to the industrial union would be a chemical sector, other assets in Ukraine, if they didn't take the appropriate coastal action on the basis of reasoned action, highly professional action, to protect national economic interests. The euro-2012, the sharp decline in the purchasing power of Ukrainian citizens, the lowest wage in Europe, are all the problems that should unite us to solve them, because for each of them the future of Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian families. So the faction of the Party of the Regions calls for an end to the agony that destroys the economy, the state, the society, take on specific issues. We are confident that there will be both in the Supreme Council and in society a pragmatic force that will unite its efforts to create conditions for a solution to the crisis and development of Ukraine as a competitive modern state. And we urge everyone to unite the mind, the will to do these tasks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u11	National MP Ribukh forwards the right to speak to the Lukyanov College, please be followed by Andrew Parubai.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! The presidential campaign has ended. In general, the electoral campaign was transparent, understandable and recognized by the international community. At the same time, despite the strong victory of the leader of the opposition, the leader of the Victor Fedorović Yanukovic Regional Party, we cannot be disturbed by certain facts of mass fraud in a small number of districts. This is District 120, 121, 122, 123, 125, 126, 127 and 128. While in general Lvivščina, the city of Lviv, voted for the leader of the Party of Regions, for Viktor Fedorović Yanuković, between 15 and 25 per cent, we see that this is a breakthrough to our electorate, a breakthrough to freedom and a breakthrough to open dialogue, an exit from confrontation. We see that there are areas where mass falsifications did not know the limit, did not know the limits of insolence and cynicism of the District Commissions 128 district. I personally had to fly to the Lviv region on the day of the vote and attend the Sambor election district. However, in general, Lvivščina, the town of Lviv, for example, has a 15 to 25 per cent vote for the leader of the Party of the Regions, Viktor Fedorović Januković. And we are grateful to our constituents in Lviv, and we are grateful to the lions. At the same time, we see that one district is breaking out — more than 90 per cent. However, on average, 70 per cent of the incidence is present. Where did 20 percent get more votes? Why was the submission of the reports of the district commissions delayed? Why are the results understated? We see a vote for Yanukovic in neighbouring areas of not less than 10 per cent, 10, 12, 15, 20 per cent. Why does one region vote at two per cent? Why is appearance higher than 20 percent in neighbouring areas? How did this happen? It is understood that the authorities use administrative resources, and the authorities have used massive falsifications. And we will demand an investigation in these areas, in these areas, and in which the perpetrators will be held accountable. Thank you for supporting us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u13	Andrey Parubius, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Lukashuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u14	Paribay Andrey, MP “For Ukraine! ” The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” is concerned about the statements by Viktor Yanukovic and his environment, which conflict with the legislation and national interests of Ukraine. Without becoming president, today’s opposition leader is in a hurry to hand out advances to our northern neighbour, giving it to voters as a desire to make a relationship with Russia. The councillors of Janukovic would explain to him that the problem is not that Ukraine has bad relations with Russia, the problem is that Russia has bad relations with all its neighbors. Whether we're going to take Poland, whether the Baltic countries, or Japan, or Georgia, we're going to see that all the neighbours, all the states that border with Russia have problems with it all the time. I also want to remind you that our relationship was difficult for the previous presidents. Consider oil and gas wars, Sevastopol and Tuzlu. And we need to make a clear distinction between good neighbourliness and betrayal of national interests. Ukrainian legislation prohibits the transfer to or the management of any Ukrainian gas transport system and its elements. And it's not random, because our GTS is profitable. This is one of the key assets of Ukraine, and given it to international governance, we would have turned into a third world country not only because, by some miracle, we would share with the already impoverished “Gazprom” with billions of profits. But also because control of the key gas pipe in Europe is one guarantee of our independence. They don't joke about things like that. We remind Janukovic that the Ukrainian Constitution expressly prohibits the establishment of foreign troops in Ukraine. And his statement on the need to establish a Russian fleet in Ukraine after 2017 was a direct encroachment on the Constitution of Ukraine. And by no chance these days, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine addressed the Constitutional Court with explanations as to whether there could be foreign military bases in Ukraine after 2017. We want to remind all the politicians who played with this topic during the presidential elections that the issues that violate the Ukrainian Constitution go beyond it, we can only treat it as a betrayal of national interests. And I'm sure. That the Constitutional Court would provide further clarification on this point. And, of course, we find it very exciting to look at the Constitution and try to impose on Ukraine some special status of Russian. There is one national language in the Ukrainian State and this is defined by the Constitution. And by the way, it doesn't stop many deputies, including in this room speaking in Russian, by the way, both from the Party of Regions and from the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. And I'd like to ask them to convince all of their party members to speak out of this rostrum in their faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u15	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u16	Both members of the Party of Regions and members of the House of Yulia Timoshenko, because in the American Parliament, where the state is multinational, it is not acceptable for them to speak in a different language as a national language.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u17	Thank you. Thank you. Oleg Lukashuk refers the right to speak to the national deputy Oleg Lášk. Please, Vladimir Karpuk will be next. Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u18	We agree with the previous speaker from the Party of Regions that there have been massive forgeries in Ukraine in the presidential election. And that's why we support the Party of Regions in this regard, and we demand that the vote be recalculated and that these elections be declared invalid. As for the current woe patriot who is concerned about the pro-Russian statements by Viktor Yanukovic. And where were you, dear patriots, when you destroyed Timoshenko and allowed Yanukovich to win the presidential election? Why did you then allow this anti - Russian force, and today you are hypocritically concerned about these claims. Woe to these patriots. Now I would like to say that for those millions of Ukrainian citizens who bought on the sweet pre-election promises of the leader of the Viktor Yanukovic Party of Regions to build Ukraine for the people, as the shoe on their head was yesterday's vote in the Supreme Council for a bill that proposed the establishment of state social assistance for low-income families at the minimum of living. The latter today is based on the citizen category of 673 to 766 dollars per month, while social assistance is much smaller. Offering over a year ago this bill, which required 11 billion dollars of supplementary budget expenditure, its author, a member of the Mikhailo Papiev Party of the Regions, actually cared not about raising the level of social protection of low-income families, but about how to tempt the government of Yulia Timoshenko. Presidential elections were approaching, and a loud discussion of such bills gave rise to charges against the government for lack of attention to the needy. To this end, the faction of the Party of the Regions blocked the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for six months, demanding hypocritical approval of the Act on raising social standards. But now after the presidential election, when the leaders of the Party of Regions seem to have taken power, there is no need even to take care of those who have been cynically cheated for the past two years. So it's no wonder that yesterday, in favour of a bill proposing social assistance at the minimum of living, neither the author of Papiev nor the faction of the Party of Regions voted in general. I think we will soon see how the prominent economist of today, Mikola Azarov, under the reduction of the budget deficit, refuses to implement the New Social Standards Act as well, and the unprotected ranks of the Party of Regions can only offer social assistance at the cost of one string of ostrich shoes of its steering officer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u19	Vladimir Karpuk, the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” conveys the right to speak to Lilia Stepanovni Grigorovich. Please. Prepare Peter Stepanovich Zibank.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u20	Lilia Grigorovich, MP “For Ukraine!” Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainians, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! With a song or an epigraph before I speak, I would like to take the words of the Holy Scriptures: “A kingdom built on a lie will fall.” Everyone here was trying to sum up the results of the presidential election. I'm going to rely on the international results, I'm going to rely on the voter committee, and I'm going to say, “One of the candidates has won, but has overcome the European national and democratic need of the Ukrainian people.” And it's not just a warning to Janukovich, it's a valve, it's a final shot at tobacco concepts and Ukraine's glutton. Still, when I return to the epigraph that “a kingdom built on a lie will fall, I will bring it to our world’s vanity and holy expression. Dear friends, the rostrum of the Supreme Council is a place where, at least, they say, if not professionally, it's true. From the rostrum of this Supreme Council, calls were made that the amendments that had taken place before the elections would destroy Ukraine, destroy elections, destroy everything. I ask you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, to give a protocol commission and turn to the Central Electoral Commission, to the judicial authorities: where a small electoral commission was seized by representatives of a candidate, the election was torn down and left. I am very much asking Ukraine to hear where it was destroyed. For so out of this rostrum, and not only out of it, many people spoke. You don't have to say injustice. The other one. I also wish, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to ask you to give a second protocol assignment on the following. From this high rostrum, from the highest court of the legislature, we heard literally a few months ago, when we had to allocate a billion to fight the flu epidemic, which would -- sorry, I'm a doctor, but it wasn't the doctors that spoke so loudly here -- that there would be hundreds of thousands of deaths in Ukraine. Thank God it's not, the epidemic's retreating. So I ask that we give a protocol commission so that we do not tell the Ukrainian voters the lie about the situation, including the health situation of our elections and the costs we have spent on the matter. Why am I talking about this? But because while he and she are asking their questions, Ukraine without a budget, we have to pay for the gas. And a series of elections, elections, elections, elections are the real destruction of the Ukrainian state, which our great friends and great enemies can expect. And finally, the third protocol assignment, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Teachers and physicians are being tested, and they are taking courses. I am very much asking to announce courses in standard-setting activities, in the history of Ukraine, in order not to be asked in this room: “I’m pooping. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u21	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u22	“What story are we rewriting?” It's the story of another state. What kind of heroes do we have? And the characters are called Petlura, Bandera. Why are 450 members of the legislative body? And finally, in which country do we live? Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u23	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u24	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The organization of Ukrainian veterans is the largest and most structured veteran organization I have the honour to lead has authorized me to make public the address of the Ukrainian Veterans' Organization to fellow Ukrainians and to the world's progressive public. Thus, “Victor Yushchenko, by his decree, assigned the name Hero of Ukraine to Stephen Bandera, to whom the directors of the Division of Diversions and Spying of the Fascist Aberration Lahusen and Stolce in their official testimony to the Nuremberg International Tribunal in 1945 were described as a paying agent of avert and as an energetic careerer, fanatic and bandit. Therefore, Bandera himself, who carried out the task of conversion on the eve of the attack by Fascist Germany in Poland, staged the insurgency movement in such a way that all the Polish courtyards were covered with flames and all the Jews were killed. Victor Yushchenko assigned the name Hero of Ukraine to the same Bandera, who, in April 41st of the month before the fascists attacked the Soviet Union, sent instructions to his fighters in Western Ukraine, ordering the beginning of the war to open up the diversions, to undermine the rears of the Red Army and to destroy Polish, Moscow and Jewish leaders – the main intelligence, stressing that the Ukrainian state should be the political military dictatorship of the UN and that the U.N. government is scary to enemies and traitors. The Banders took a direct part in Germany's aggression on June 22, 41, against the Soviet Union, and therefore against the people of Ukraine, Stephen Bandera reported to the Deputy Secretary of State of the Fascist Germany Kunt on July 3, 41, in this way: the UN, in a form permitted by the German authorities, engaged all the factors in the fight against the greatest opponents, opponents of all times, Russians and especially Bolshevikism, the UN, in the ranks of the German Wehrmacht, part as organizers in the rear of the Bolshevik armies, with the task of interacting with Wehrmacht, and part, in the Soviet Army, should contribute to the weakening of Bolshevism and cooperation with the German army. It was such a fighter for an independent Ukraine that Yushchenko made a hero of Ukraine.” These are some passages of a reference. The full text is published in the newspaper Veteran Ukraine and is posted on the organization’s website. Thus, veteranism is extremely negative about the decree. Moreover, they are convinced that the President has established Ukraine on the other hand. In view of the stated decree, the Heads of State can now refer to Ukraine as “Ukraine-Banderland”. But I'm sure we're all working together.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u25	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u26	But I am convinced that all of us together, by working together, will remove this disgraceful stain from the image of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u27	Yes, distinguished national MPs, the time for the speech is over. With regard to the proposals made by the National Deputies, the Secretariat requests the preparation of appropriate assignments. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the issues set out in the February 10th schedule. The first question we have, dear colleagues, is the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I inform you, honourable national deputies, that at the Conciliation Council here on several occasions in the session hall we have discussed this issue in view of the fact that the Constitutional Court obliges the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the Supreme Council's regulations as a law. In view of this, the regulatory committee carried out the appropriate work, and a project was carried out. But today there is such a proposal, and according to everything, it has been agreed upon by the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: to legislate the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its current form, to send for signature by the President of Ukraine in order to remove any conversation on this matter. And then life will show us what we have to do. This is why today's proposal, honourable colleagues: to approve by law the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, you have the first page, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure as of September 19, 2008. In other words, this document is on the table of every national MP. Is there no objection? Please let each faction express its point of view for a moment. Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u28	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I think, really, given the situation that there are almost a dozen decisions of the Constitutional Court that require us to make the Rules a law, we have every reason to accept the Rules as a law today, in fact, in the regulation that we work for, that is, the appendix, that is, the book that you've demonstrated. At the same time, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you to come out of the situation that we often have when we prepare, we accept the draft in the first reading, and then they write what they want in the second reading. So I would suggest in 116 articles that, after the first part, the second part and the third part, namely, that proposals and amendments to the draft draft for the second reading can only be made to that draft of the draft articles of their parts, paragraphs, sentences adopted by the Supreme Council on a basis. And then make the same proposals to the fourth point, and then to the fourth point.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u29	Finish up, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u30	Then the second paragraph will become the fifth. I'll give you this. And once again, it'll make it easy for us to do a lot of work. Because we sometimes write new volumes to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u31	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, microphone. And as the leader of the faction, and head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, the very rightful question is to adopt the Rules by law today. And to take the basis of the very rule that we have been working on, which is the least of our differences in the room. Because if we now go along with any amendments to the Rules, this will delay the decision-making process itself. Moreover, I am not sure that there will be a sufficient number of votes in the Chamber, provided that the Rules are amended. In view of the fact that we have voted in favour of the current Rules, almost all of us have voted and it gives us a pretty strong basis for the Supreme Council to work constructively, therefore our faction supports the adoption of the Rules today as a law. Moreover, if it were the goodwill of our colleagues not to extend the process and given that we have voted and worked under the Rules, it could be accepted both as a basis and as a whole, but on condition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u33	Please give me the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u34	But that's provided there's no comment from the deputies in the room. But as I think, if we want to work constructively, this procedure needs to be completed today, because under this Rules, I am telling you again, we have worked with you and we have been working well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u35	Oleg Zarubinski, please. Then it's non-fractional, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u36	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In fact, everyone understands that the Rules should be an internal document of the work of the Supreme Council, just as the Constitutional Court should work in accordance with its Rules, for example. But we have approached the road situation when we adopt regulations in the form of law, and the relevant authorities, first of all, the Constitutional Court, permanently recognize it as not constitutional, which creates, of course, serious enough problems, not only for relations in Parliament itself, but also between Parliament and other branches of government and other state institutions. So I think it's time to make a decision, if you can say it's a fundamental, or a radical decision. And the next moment, there can't be any perfect Rules -- it's not a four-to-five-point instruction. This is a serious document with many articles, and I feel that in this case we need to support what we have used in the past.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u37	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u38	I suggest, and the faction of the Lithuanian Block suggests that we focus on that text that is really already tested, and any scientist knows that testing is 90 percent of success and that by the Rules as of September 19, 2008, it is tested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u39	Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u40	Thank you. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, if you talk about introducing a draft decision that we think we are considering right now, there are a number of questions to it, and as to the term, preparation for the second reading is given there for three days, although even the reduced procedure in that Rules, which we are about to approve, provides for seven days, half of the fourteen. The rules that we are currently considering have 240 articles, and such bills cannot be prepared at all under a reduced procedure. The committee therefore has a number of comments and suggestions on compliance with the law, the Regulations of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, and a number of others. But to unlock the work of the Supreme Council right now, our faction will support the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u41	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u42	will support the voting of the first paragraph, for the adoption of the bill as a whole, because everything else will lead to a series of disagreements and we will not have a procedural document again, we will not have a Rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one minute from the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" who, Yuri Klukkowski?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u44	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, to be honest, I wouldn't give it away, I think it would affect the dignity of the Supreme Council as well. That's what we're going to say, that's how it's given out. The bill proposes to be approved in 2008. But I would like to remind you that now the 10th year and the Rules have been amended. Why are these changes being rejected, perhaps an explanation?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u45	What changes?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u46	Why we're going back to the old one. The other one. I agree that the test of the Rules is good. But there were problems we faced in the trials. So it seems to me that I need to accept it in the first reading and give the people's deputies of Ukraine the opportunity to propose changes. For example, I am deeply concerned about 100 articles of the Rules, where the right to legislative initiative is restricted by the Constitution. Hence, this standard will have to be changed by many others. That's why I'm proposing. [[Let me finish.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u47	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u48	I suggest you take the first reading and give at least a week to make proposals, because I don't understand for three days that Saturday is the end of the deadline.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u49	What does three days go by where they read?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u50	There's a determination. It's been written for three days. And that means that Saturday is the last deadline for making proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u51	Dear National Deputies! Since the adoption of the document, no changes have been made to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[I see-I see.]] And you were handed out, honorary colleagues, four documents on four pages, so you took one, take the other. Here they all are. I am once again, Yuri Bogdanovich, my esteemed colleagues, reproducing this book for you and distributing 450 is a great luxury that lies within each of you, hanging on the table on the site. Let's not touch anything like that. Ruslan Knazevitch, then Yuri Karmazin, then Peter Simonenko and Taras Czarnovil. And we'll decide about the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u52	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to address you, if I may, with one question, not essentially, but in a form. We've been handed over the draft Supreme Council Rules Act, right? But in fact, let's not cheat on each other, it's about a draft law approving the Supreme Council Rules. And the rule itself is written in parentheses. It is an integral part of this law, and we believe that it is also a law. Is this an appendix that is an internal parliamentary document that Parliament can quietly change, or will it need to be amended in accordance with the Constitution as a law? And whether other subjects of the legislative initiative can make their own proposals. We've got something mixed up, we don't know if it's the Law on the Approval of the Rules, so it's not a solution to the situation -- let's say it's an attempt to recreate and execute in some way, let's say, a form of decision of the Constitutional Court, but it doesn't really solve the issue. So let's not cheat on ourselves right now. There's such a wonderful opportunity, because I understand there's consensus in the hall, to adopt this law, but let's keep all this clean law. Therefore, let us approve it or the law approving the Rules, or the Law itself, to write the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u53	I understand, Mr. People's Members, that we are approving the Rules by law, and any changes will have to be made to the law. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u54	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I'm asking you to think about the procedure in which we're considering drafts at all? By what procedure are we now taking down the Minister of Internal Affairs, asking other questions? By no means! Just because the Rules do not exist after being declared unconstitutional does not exist. So I think it was better to recycle, of course. But in the political situation that Ukraine is in, we will not find such consensus right now. I believe, and I have looked carefully at this regulation, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I point out that when this law was passed in March 2004, it was probably because of technical reasons that things had fallen out that were adopted in the Rules. I am willing to make one suggestion, here's the words: “if the ballots for secret ballots received at least two thirds of the deputies from their actual number.” I'm willing to give you a transcript right now, but if you accept it, it's all over now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u55	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm asking you to find this text in the transcript that we've been through, and if you accept the test rule, you're going to accept it as a whole right now, and you're going to have the committee work out then the changes, the additions that our colleagues have been talking about. For our loving decision, our loving law today is illegal. That's all I'm going to vote for. - with disgust, I repeat, - I will vote for the proposed solution. Because there's no other way in. Otherwise, we have to take a break this week, prepare it, and then adopt the Rules first, and then everything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u57	Thank you. Thank you. Peter Simonenko, Taras Cranwell and Sas and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u58	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I want to inform you that the Company faction will support this proposal. Vote for adoption as the Law of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we must then integrate all our relations into all branches of power. So I'm proposing, after taking the first step and setting the internal rules for our work as a law for the Supreme Council, which is the law of the state, we have to take the next steps. There should be a law on the organization of the work of the President's administration or secretariat, there should be legislation on the organization of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, not only that Act on the Cabinet of Ministers, but also that of the internal organization of work, as well as the judicial branch of government. So then we're going to bring everything into line, and it can't be that one branch of power works under the law, and the other one works according to what the leader wants today, and the way things go, and so on, lawlessness does every day. So I'm going to suggest that we continue this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u59	Thank you. Taras Chernobyl, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The decision of the Constitutional Court, which gives me some doubts that we must carry out, establishes that the Rules should be law. The document that we have to vote on does not answer this question whether it is a law or not. How could you possibly not directly answer what the Rules are? You assumed it was a law that made changes like the law. I can see from this document that it is either an appendix independent of some short law in two strips, or it is once again a separate absolute document at the level of determination that is just approved by law. [[6052]] I'm afraid we're going to have huge problems when we change the rules in force when they do. And they're going to arise, they're going to have to regulate the non-fractional status, they're going to have to clarify the coalition issues, and so on. I therefore have a proposal for a legislative initiative, yet to correct and approve, not by law, but by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u61	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u62	It is for the Rules to be as a law, clearly to be written in the document itself, because it is a document that does not answer the basic question of how to continue working with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u63	Thank you. Sergei Sas, please. We need to remove the tension so that Alexander Lavrinovich can respond to Taras Cnerovil’s doubts. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u64	I wanted to draw your attention to two moments. First moment. The 2008 edition of the Rules amended part of article 217 almost a year ago, excepting “members of the High Council of Justice” for the formation of an oath. Such a decision was taken by the Supreme Council, but it was not formed. I'm a stenographer to make that clear. I wanted to draw your attention to the requirements of the Constitution, such as 85 articles, and to what is proposed in the draft decree. What's this about? That the Supreme Council approves certain things is meant to approve the budget, approves the Government Programme. [[85 Article]] In accordance with article 85, paragraph 15, of the Rules, she accepts it. Therefore, the adoption of this law requires a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u65	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u66	Therefore, in the adoption of the decree on the adoption of the law, it is necessary to approve instead, to write down the Rules of the Supreme Council in order to ensure that this is in conformity with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u67	I don't think there's gonna be any objection to the last one, so you can count. But I, for one minute, am now. But with regard to the first proposal that we have taken a decision, the decision did not take effect because the national deputies Alexander Ephraim and Sergey Sas wrote a petition in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules that the procedure had been violated. And so this decision was not signed or effective. I'm telling you, I'm out of order. Please, Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I would like to dispel some of the doubts that have arisen regarding the form of approval of the Supreme Council's decision under the Rules. We have in our Basic Law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine mentioned in two different planes. Thus, the adoption of the Rules of Law will immediately come into conflict with the four positions in the Constitution. With regard to proposals to be adopted rather than approved, it is the form of approval that we adopt, when approved, inter alia, by the statutes of the Armed Forces and others, by the law of government programmes, that will in this case fully comply with both the constitutional requirements and with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which literally stated that the Rules “not approved by law”. So we're going to do all the procedures we need, and we're going to be able to work on our existing document, which we've been working on, eventually, for many years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u69	We're moving on to the discussion. Yuri Klukkowski, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u70	Thank you. I'm in charge of constitutional observance. I would like to draw attention to the formulation of paragraphs 15 and 37 of the famous 85th Constitution. Paragraph 15 states: “Adoption of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, 37th: “Approval of the law of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea”. I point out that the different terms used in the Constitution mean the constitutional requirement of different procedures. And this requirement has to be met.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'll put it to the vote now. I'm asking you to stop this meeting, get ready for the vote. Let's do it this way. Let us take the first step: we will adopt the Ukrainian Law of the Supreme Council (Registration No. 6052). If the Supreme Council supports, the President will sign, and we will continue to see how we do. Well, no, no, no, please, calm down! Wait a minute! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it to a vote. If we adopt the Rules, the law will be signed, there will be no violations. I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in general, taking into account the clarifications of Adam Martinyuk and Yuri Karmazin. [[Registration number 6052]] Please vote. [[10:55:50]] For 368 The law is passed. Thank you. The factions, please. Factions: Region Party – 170, “Julia Timoshenko Block” – 140, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 7, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 19, “Afterfractional” – 5. It is announced in a reopened first reading of the draft Law on Renting and Concession of Centralized Water, Heat and Water Management Facilities. Registration number 2320. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy, Alexander Pavlovich Popov. Please, Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u72	Your Honor, your colleagues! Two words about the relevance of this law, which is before you. I want to remind you that we have a few challenges in the area of housing and utilities. And one of them is the sharp rise in energy prices. I'm not surprised to remind you that basic technologies were designed and installed both in the water supply sector and in the '70s and '90s. And they certainly have a low utility ratio and a high energy efficiency that is 2 times higher today than that in civilized European countries. Of course, energy-saving technologies and technology upgrades are needed to stop the price and tariffs on residential services from rising. You and I understand very well that the state of the coming years will not be able to provide the necessary but substantial State support for the process of modernizing municipal enterprises. And so you're looking at an option that's designed to involve business in cooperation with territorial communities in order to effectively manage water and heat facilities and introduce energy-saving technologies into the system, the technology system of such objects. You know there were two bills. One was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, the other by opposition. And those bills weren't adopted. It was decided that our committee of profile should work on these bills. So we carried out our work, we also joined the Association of Ukrainian Cities. And today, you're looking at an option that we think meets the challenges that there are. The essence of this bill is the prescribed regulation of all procedures, starting with the granting of the lease and concession initiative of those or other enterprises and ending with a possible breakup of contractual relations. Or the end of a lease. On the one hand, the interests of territorial communities on property rights are being strengthened, on the other hand, more clear and more transparent conditions for cooperation with private private business, which we expect to invest in the development of such enterprises. The Science and Experimental Authority supports this bill, but there are a few comments that we are willing to take into account in preparing it for second reading. I have a request on behalf of the committee to my colleagues, if this bill is adopted in the first reading, I ask you to consider the procedure for its possible preparation for the second reading under the reduced procedure. We would be very grateful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u73	Please sign up for the interview. Please put the names of those who signed up on the board. Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u74	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Alexander Pavlović, yes, in that bill you well signed the procedure for deciding to transfer to the concession. But on the other hand, it is completely unclear that what guarantees will there be for the population that tariffs will not grow violently? Why do I say "bourne"? The fact is that an entrepreneur, a private entrepreneur who will accept a concession, may be, of course, altruists who will want to invest their capital and upgrade the basic housing and utility funds, but the main thing is profit. And we understand that the only way to make a profit here is by increasing tariffs. Because you yourself said in your report that the State today, in your view, cannot ensure the loss of housing and utilities. How do you see the protection of the population from rising tariffs?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u75	Well, this is the first feature of the bill, i.e. the particularity of rent and concession, that before signing a contract with the winners of the competition will be a prerequisite for the availability of the amount of investment needed to modernize production. There are clear deadlines for these investments to be made in the business process. That's the main argument that prices and tariffs can be stopped because, again, we have twice as much natural gas and electricity as we have emergency technologies. That is why this is the basic condition. But also, if you pay attention, the treaty also stipulates that all these tariff-related processes will be controlled not only by the State, but also, especially, by the territorial community. Therefore, in my view, this is where the maximum, subject to existing legislation, is provided for such civilized relations, including in the field of TIR education.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u76	Please ask Sergey Gordian, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u77	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Alexander Pavlovich, in your view as experienced in the field of municipal farming, please tell us how much further there is to be in the nets that were installed in Soviet times because we are on the verge of major technological catastrophes. And I'd like to thank you for the work you've done by writing a transmission procedure. But there are many violations in this regard today. I'd like you two to comment on what's going on in Lubna with the transfer of the Lubin Water Channel right into the lease.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u78	Sergei Vladimirovich, thank you for asking. In Lubna, if possible, maybe I'm in another audience. And here's your first question. So I'm going to say that today, we're spending the core funds, which means they've been operating for more than 20 to 25 years, on water and sanitation facilities, over 60 per cent. That is, we can say that at the time of the Soviet Union, even our own State, an absolute majority of technology and basic production have been built. Therefore, of course, they were advanced at the time, and today they need root reconstruction. By the way, the Council of Europe recommends that members of the Council of Europe use this form of cooperation between municipalities and business in achieving the best solutions and developing housing and utility enterprises, which has already been tested. What happened in Lubna, I think it's a bit uncivilized, and so far, I think it will be resolved at the level of local councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u79	Oleg Zarubinski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u80	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Alexander Pavlovich, I'm sure you're familiar with the conclusion of this bill of scientific expertise. I was interested in the two facilities there, and I'd like you to answer them. Do you consider it appropriate to provide for a ban on the definition of renters or concessionaires of state and municipal enterprises? That's the first one. And the second. Do you not think that a natural person who is an entrepreneur should be excluded from the list of entities that may be tenants because a physical person may hardly be able to function as an appropriate utility? These two questions, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u81	Thanks very much for the second, this is not a fundamental question, you can leave a legal person, but we have determined that “physical”, “legal”, it is only relative to rent; and with regard to concession, it is only “legal”. It's not principled, though. This may be the case, so we've drawn up a moment like this. As far as I'm concerned. Excuse me, I'm the first question, please. I'm sorry. This bill applies exclusively to utilities. The actions of this law, they don't apply to state-owned enterprises, but as far as utilities are concerned, we prescribe it, I think it's a very effective form in our particular circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u82	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u83	Dear Alexander Pavlovich! Over the past two years, we've heard the solo songs of Julia Vladimirovny about how much money she's sending, billions, to the utilities. It may have been the money that left Minfin, but it did not reach the utilities, but it was actually used entirely for the elections. And I think the people have exposed this deception and Timoshenko's deception has been duly evaluated in the election, a bubble hole. But now it's said to offend another, order still has to be stated: cold in the apartments, no water there, no gas explodes, people die when she and her team go away faster, so that normal people, the professional team come to order, not to blow up the money in the elections, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u84	My deep conviction, that we are sometimes looking for some unique forms of development for our country, I must say that today's legislation, given that we have adopted a law with you in the summer on the prospects for reform and development of the housing and communal sphere, and plus, if we adopt that law, it gives a good reason to clean up the sleeves and improve the team of professionals, to really start reforming the JCX system. State support for this process is, of course, a prerequisite for resolving this problem. Because today the municipalities do not have the money to reform the system, there is certainly no need to update the main productions. Therefore, the future of the Government and the President certainly depends on how fast these processes go. I'm sure it will be soon, and there will be people who will be ready to take responsibility for the outcome. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u85	Trophimenco, Timoshenko Street. Please. Is there a Trophimenko? None. Serbian Yuri, Timoshenko Yuli Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u86	First of all, a little comment from the government of Timoshenko on the implementation and promise, I can give you the example of Lvov, where they promised and allocated the funds, and the plumbers work there, I can bring my own Sumski area, so let's not put politics together, but the question is. Do you mind, Alexander Pavlovich, that if we prescribe in the second reading of this law a more clear order so that we can bring order under this law, where it has already been passed on to a concession with violations. Where we have the consequences now, when these water and water are simply leading to a catastrophic state, as you're referring to this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u87	Yuri Vasilovich, I agree with you, this is where the legal rules have to be taken into account, because today there are certain agreements with those companies that have concluded them and municipalities. But clearly, there's a legal aspect, and it has to be taken care of. Why today, and they really are, and in most cases conflict between municipalities, and renters or concessionaires. Because there were just no standards that we are now proposing, it is a safeguard against such situations for the future. What about it? I understand that we need to put this in order, but as it's legal right now in the framework of the current legislation, I can't answer and I don't think this law is going to answer it, there are other codes of law that make it necessary to deal with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u88	Alexander Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u89	Dear reporter! You know, in my day together then, Deputy Alexi Kucherenko, on a similar subject, he wasn't supported. Although everyone in the hall was convinced that he was needed. For unknown reasons. How does your bill differ from ours, the better it is, and is there any chance of supporting it today? Or did you take into account the bill we were passing in our time in your bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u90	Thank you. And I thank you for the work that was done, this bill is exactly, let's say, the accumulation of all the work that was done. You know, the Ministry has been working with its version, including your law, of the bill. Therefore, when we considered it in preparation for the rereading of the first reading, these standards were taken into account. I think there's, really, a compromise that's making everyone who understands this matter right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u91	Thank you. And time is running out, and all the national MPs who wanted to ask questions asked. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. May I have the names of the national deputies? Hanna Herman, please, microphone. Alexy Plonikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u92	Dear head! Dear National Deputies! Of course, this law, which was passed on to re-read, and it has much better parameters than those that just went on the first reading. He is working on the necessary conditions, including the proposal to determine the characteristics of leases and concessions of centralized water supplies, the corresponding heat supply, water supply, and other forms of property. Moreover, the very situation of this bill should lead to improvements in both the field and, of course, in the area of the creation of an adequate regulatory basis for the transfer to leases and concessions of thermal, water and water supplies that are held in municipal property. So I think this is a very useful bill. It's very positively different from the first version of the first reading. And there's a logical proposal in this direction: to accept this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u93	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please the Communist faction. Yuri Serbin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, Simonenko, the Communist faction. I inform you that the faction of the company will not vote in favour of this law. We come from the next. There is no example in Ukraine to show that the transfer of utility property to a lease or other form of use would reduce tariffs and improve services. This form is now being used by large capital in order to transfer this system to its local authorities when it is seized. And in fact, to deprive the territorial community of property. And today you'll see what's going on. The warehouse is leased, all the forms are leased, the utilities are leased, and that ends only by raising tariffs. Next. This system, by the way, through this law is the biggest corruption. Because it's passed, and here you can read, 7 articles, by the way, of this law, which says that it can be transmitted without a competition. It is also stated that no action is taken, or returns to be taken, without the Antimonopoly Committee. And it's a simple scheme. The measure or its agents, which provides the majority of the Council, transfer a particular structure to a lease or licence, and then transfer the coins determined by the already rising tariffs specifically to a mayor or manager in cash. This scheme is understandable. So how should we answer the question? First, it must be kept in public ownership and in communal property, because today, 30 per cent of all water, so to speak, water supply systems are in a critical situation. The capital is only to gain profits and surpluses, rather than to improve the quality of the services provided. Secondly, we have here in Kiev to deal with the fate of all utilities. Who sets electricity tariffs? Who sets gas prices? Who today naturally manipulates the equipment that is essential to improve the quality of services and the provision of utilities? That's why I want to give you an example of the Chernobyl area of 25 water-supply stations. Today, three have spent everything completely, their term, 12 are in critical condition. Are you the naive people here, assuming that everyone who rents these stations will take care of them right now? No! No! Yes, they will today do what some people leave out of work, while other prices and tariffs will increase, and so, once again, they will go to our consumers' pockets. I believe that the territorial communities must have compulsory communal property, which they have been entrusted with in order to maintain order directly in a particular territory. The Company's faction to vote in favour of this draft law will not, and recommends to all of you, distinguished colleagues, if you advocate the interests of your constituents for refusing to support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u95	Yuri Serbin, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Our government has done and is doing everything possible to support the water supply and sewage management and our heat supply. But there's no budget enough if we put all of these flaws on our hands, these old systems of ours are going to be relying on the government budget. That is why this law is certainly necessary. But there are some suggestions to this law. First offer. But come on, I understand that this is a very tricky legal formula, but we have to sort out those contracts that are now being concluded, and where, really, our water supply and water supply systems are being made. It will be enough to write down even the phrase of the wish that you put the contracts that have been made in line with this legislative act. That's the first offer. Second offer. We have now prepared 12,000 local budgets for our government. And now small cities and towns of the urban type will have the right to use their funds to raise both road and water and sanitation. Yet, I am confident that these costs will not be enough in the endurance of our system. Therefore, this law must be adopted in the first reading. Our faction will support this. And the second reading takes into account the comments that are there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u97	Valerius Baranov, Lithuanian Block faction. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u98	Baranov, "Block of Lithuania". Dear friends, you can close your eyes to problems in housing and utilities. As much as you can advocate for what was and was not the best, you can bring back the plan, but the question is, who will pay for the difference that arises today and has brought Ukraine's housing and utility to complete bankruptcy? And you can dream and remember, but world practice says that there is one way to attract money to rebuild recovery and service delivery. Money can be public, money can be communal, local councils, money can be like investment from a large, small and medium-sized business. We are well aware that money is not available to the State today, but to the local authorities, it is not. The only way to rebuild our economy is to invest. So what investor comes to work in a business that's completely destroyed and doesn't give him any guarantees to protect his job? Today, there are many practices of the world and practices in our Ukraine, where utilities are effectively used and beneficial to the territorial communities. I would like to say that the Association of Cities, which I have the honour to represent here, strongly requests all those present in the Hall to support this bill. This is our opportunity to attract investment in housing and utilities and to provide our citizens with high-efficiency and quality services. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u99	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u100	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a question. After distribution, the quality of services that people receive is better? All electronics fly, no one protects the rights of citizens. What did some investors put in there? No one put anything in. Everything's just being exploited, what it was. Next. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law would seem to me to call it: “A permit for the total privatization of centralized installations, heating and water supply in municipal property”. That's what he's called. This is the second name of this law. I see that. A small example for you. Everyone knows Odessa, everyone knows the hotel “Londonska” – the most famous hotel. Loyal regions were leased, and now they were making decisions because they knew that not only in 17 regions did Timoshenko win, which would change in Odessa. Takes the district council's decision to pay the final price -- 24 million dollars is the best hotel is $3 million, that's the cost of a manipulate's mansion. It's so that you know what's going on. And now we want to do the same thing with water supply, we want to do the same with other things. I'd like to draw your attention to the contradictions of the laws. I think it's a matter of national security, first. More expensively, water is a question of the survival of the nation and its gene pool. Give someone else the opportunity to buy, manage, from an offshore place. So I will not vote in favour of this law. I draw your attention to the fact that there is a significant contradiction with the law already in force: “On the rent of public utility property”, which states that they cannot be leased public property that is not privatised in accordance with part two of article 5 of the Law on the Privatisation of State Property. This is point (d): “objects of engineering infrastructure and the well-being of cities, including networks, buildings and equipment related to the provision of water, gas, heat and sewage to consumers”. Change this law first, change the Constitution, and then you can do it. Otherwise it's illegal. I encourage a coalition colleague to think about what I'm saying right now, and to look at the laws in force, and to think that we're going to leave the children if they can even live in those conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u101	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u102	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! This law goes beyond politics. I think politics is over. President-in-Office Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic was elected, and a professional team of government managers, Parliament, would be formed on the day. Let's put the President's agenda behind us and pull the country out of the crisis. But here, in fact, we must not deceive ourselves or people by abstracting ourselves from politics. The question is very serious. The Soviet Union, especially the utilities, was badly built. For 20 years we've been beating, beating, not making a penny, not getting it. But even with all that strength, there is a limit to what may not be technical accidents — huge technological catastrophes with victims. The fact that there's no water is half-baked. What's not warm is half-baked. But that's what brings a gas cylinder to the apartment, then an explosion, a house, an apartment, people dying. And we must, without deceiving ourselves, say, regardless of party affiliation. And who would, who would, who would, would not take the case. Is there money in the States today to address these problems in the public sector? Is there enough financial resources? The answer is no, there is no money like that. Then the question arises: If there is no such money, and further, we must go on the road that every day, like a summary, like frontal records to listen to, where the apartment will explode, where people will freeze to death. So we probably have to do everything we can to light up the green light on the way to making serious private investments in this area. And by attracting private investment to pull out, not just to patch up holes, but to carry out serious technical re-arms and re-engineering of the system. Therefore, this law proposes to define the characteristics of leases and concessions of centralized water, heating and water supply facilities that are in communal ownership and the characteristics of renting and concessions of such facilities. And the consequences of the adoption of this law are the creation of an appropriate legal basis for the transfer to rental and concession of thermal supplies and water supplies that are held in municipal property. Therefore, I now appeal to all the deputies present that the hour has come to stop lying in the country, to stop lying in the country, there have been many lies. Let's be honest with ourselves and in front of people and say: there is no money in the state. And to raise this area, to protect people from death, from disturbances, from technological catastrophes, we can only make serious investments and light up green light on the path of serious investment in this area. We therefore propose the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u103	Honorable colleagues, discussing the bill. What? Please, it's the people's MP's microphone. Well, over here, please, to the rostrum. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Now the final word of the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I have to say a few words in connection with such a tumultuous discussion. The fact is that the bill does not open or give green light to the rental or privatization of facilities. This issue has long been resolved in this country with you. There is this process today. And we're all speaking today saying that he's wrong, he's not who meets today's demands. Therefore, this law, bearing in mind that life-sustainment facilities, water supply can be transferred to rental and concession. It is proposed that they be transmitted under special conditions, taking into account the specific nature of their operation. There is no new creation here; on the contrary, the capacity of territorial communities to control the process of cooperation and development of these enterprises is being strengthened. One more thing, because rent and concession, that's what I'm talking about for televised people, it's not privatization. Rental, after the lease, the main funds of this enterprise are returned to the territorial community. Concession is an improved core fund with investments that were there to return to the territorial communities. This is not an ingenuity in Ukraine; today it is a mechanism with which the leading States — the United States of America — are working. And then the decision to rent or concession is taken by the municipality and the territorial community is taken. As mayor, if we had a good business, if it were to operate in a stable manner and provide normal services, I would never agree that it should be transferred to rent and concession. But unfortunately, we have fewer and fewer facilities in the country every day. And if we don't invest the capital there, tomorrow we won't be able to deliver any drinking water or heat during the winter. You see, this is a threat to national security. And if all of this goes to waste today, if the State moves away from balancing the interests of business and the interests of territorial communities, we will indeed exacerbate the situation of corruption in this area, and indeed, we will lose the interests that today must be taken away from the territorial communities. I propose this bill must be supported. And I would like to put the procedure for accelerated adoption on second reading to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u105	Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please. Then Vladimir Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u106	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters, provided today that the Supreme Council votes in favour of this law, you know, will be repeated when you've cut off your electricity for non-payment. There will be appropriate collectors who will come and take these payments out of your apartment. So let's say it's going to cut off both the water supply and the water supply. This all makes sense to us today. We must also understand that this decision is taken in order for the State to take full responsibility for what services are provided to people. Next. While the State has refused to control large businesses in terms of wages, jobs, decent wages and so on, and so forth. I mean, once again, the Communist faction will not vote in favour of this law because it is anti-national in essence. And the lack of capital to address specific issues that the State must address in order to supply clean water and ensure the health of the nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u107	Vladimir Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u108	Thank you. Party of regions, Landik. I would like to add Popova and appeal to Petra Nikolaevich. Peter Nikolaevich, there's nothing to say about state property, it's only about utility property. But what my colleague Carmazin said when he told me about the skylight, that's exactly what he said. It's all the water or everything we've already distributed that doesn't work. Here, a competitive auction system is proposed where it will be put in place. But it will be prescribed only to responsible local governments, of course. And if it's corrupt, then, clearly, it will take over, under any circumstances, and no law is the best that we can accept here, it will never work. It therefore requires an eye to the eyes, to the responsibility, to the honesty of those politicians and performers on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u109	Yuri Serbin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I'm not saying it's the perfect law. But we now have a lot of examples where leases are leased to a heating system, water supply, water supply, water supply without any order. And if we don't accept it now, it will continue. We enter at least the quality of the concession transfer right. But believe us, as a committee, it's not a political law, but it's a political law to adopt it in the first reading in order to move around and vice versa, so that under this law, those active agreements that are for them to come under this law. Then maybe we can get in some sort of order, or we'll be now, we'll have very bad things to do, and we'll have even worse things to do. There's a very nice expression, "Maybe oil will run out, but man will still drink water and go to the toilet." So let's adopt this law, let's put some order into it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! This isn't a discussion. Come on, Alexander Bondar, 30 seconds. You've all been there before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u112	Vladimir Mikhailovich! When I reported my law to Kucherenko, I heard the same comments about the bill that had nothing to do with its text. Everyone criticizes what's going on, and nobody wants to do anything to make it normal. Now, there is really an attempt to regulate these procedures to prevent abuse. And this law should be adopted in the first reading, otherwise criticism, which does not apply to the law, will remain a criticism, and the situation will not change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for the vote. The committee's proposal to accept the bill as a basis. I'm betting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law on rental features and concessions for centralized water, heating, water supply, and utilities. Registration number 2320. Please vote. Here comes the vote, dear fellows! [[11:34:40]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party 15, Timoshenko Yulia Block 15, Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense 22, Communists 0, Litvina Block 19, non-factional 2. I'm voting for the return to draft Law 2320 on the return to the draft law. Please vote. [[11:35:17]] For 256 They went back to reviewing the bill. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 2320]] Please vote. [[11:35:42]] For 288 Decision taken. Now I'm going to show you the factions. Dear colleagues, here the reporter suggested that we make a decision on the reduction, and we'll now show you the deadline for preparing for the second reading. I'm going to put this motion to the vote, and now I'm going to announce the results of the vote. Region Party: 161, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 76, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 29, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 19, non-fractional – 3. I would like to place a motion for a committee to prepare Bill 2320 for consideration in the second reading on a simplified procedure. So you just offered, your faction offered. [[11:36:39]] For 177 The decision is not taken. A draft law on the provision of affordable housing for citizens is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4124, 4722]] The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Regional Development and Construction, Isenko Dmitry Valeriyovich, and National Deputy of Ukraine Poljancic Mikhajlovich, co-rapporteur, Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u114	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Ministry of Regional Development and Construction has developed a draft law on the provision of affordable housing for citizens. What is suggested to you today for consideration in the first reading. I would like to point out that the mechanism for building affordable housing as one of the anti-crisis measures is largely regulated by article 4 of the Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Buildings and Housing for which 410 national deputies voted. This law defines the concept of affordable housing and state support for its construction or the acquisition of a circle of persons entitled to receive such support for the source of financing for the construction of affordable housing, the basic requirements for such housing, and the conditions for costing it. At the same time, the Ministry believes that the expansion of affordable housing in the state requires the formation of a separate legislative framework, namely the adoption of a special law. The proposed bill more clearly defines the powers of the central, local, executive, and local governments. With a view to preventing abuse with affordable housing, the bill provides for the introduction of a single national register of citizens who are entitled to affordable housing and a certificate of non-State support. The implementation of this bill will allow conditions to be created for the accessibility of construction, the acquisition of housing, the identification of affordable housing standards, the improvement of the technical status of the housing fund, and a comprehensive approach to this problem. In line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the bill can be adopted as a basis in the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! If you have any questions to the deputy minister, please sign up for the question. Names may be placed on the information board. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin. I would like to ask you about this: you could briefly describe what your Act on the Provision of Access to Housing differs from the parliamentary bill 4722, which is called “For State Support for the Provision of Access to Housing for Citizens”. Because by studying them and comparing them to each other, I thought it was a more thorough bill and it was the essence of supporting citizens at this stage, the parliamentary bill. How do you put them together? Do you not see the need to take one off? Or if he, for example, reports from the Ministry, from the government, is he supposed to be better? Here, give an honest answer to these questions, please, if you are familiar with another bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u117	Well, I'm familiar with the second bill. And I want to say that the law that was drafted by the Ministry and Government is simpler, simpler. With regard to the second bill, we considered it at the Supreme Council Committee on Construction, and in general decided that it was a more viable bill drafted by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u118	Yuri Serbin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u119	Well, first of all. I'm going to be speaking from a committee under this law, and I'm going to give an answer to my colleague Carmazin, and what these laws are different from, is the first, fundamentally, I think. And the second. How do you feel about the fact that: (a) that the law works to write a rule, for example, 30 percent, and does it take two years of planning to really make it work?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u120	Well, I support that position. What I'm saying is that the government adopted the Cabinet of Ministers' Ordinance on the State Objective Program for Providing Citizens with an Accessable Housing, which was developed in 2007, and there is really planning for the period 2010 to 2017, and I support that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u121	Deputies of the Lis, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u122	Dear reporter, please tell me why your law has again established a state mortgage facility that will play a role. And please tell me where the complex building of the city's micro-regions is, because I'm convinced that the walls are going chaoticly, practically, in all the big places and regions today. So, please, why didn't you take this into account and tell me about the financial institution?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u123	But with regard to the financial institution, the mortgage loan. It is clear that today the availability of resources and, let us put it this way, it is, well, almost today that this is not the case, and today it will be precisely the creation of conditions for people to be able to build cheaply, and, of course, the second reading of this law will have to make serious adjustments in this regard. That is, it's not mortgage lending, it's creating conditions, that is, what you're talking about, an integrated building of neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u124	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u125	Thank you. Please tell the Honorable Reporter, will it not be achieved that in the end, the law you present to us will go to the register of those who need affordable housing? Do you not know how many percent of the population in Ukraine are simply unable to obtain housing instead of what they receive? That's almost 80 percent. Because we already have a problem with the voter register. They said that all questions would be resolved. It was created, and the problems were not reduced, but increased. And one more thing. In your opinion, do young people, the youth category, take priority in obtaining affordable housing in your law? Because we already have a negative and very negative experience, when, practically, young people get credit in commercial banks and it's the end of the year, this year, and all that's left is debt, and the state doesn't do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u126	Please let me finish the question. Please, Catherine Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u127	And the state has never fulfilled its commitments to young people. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u128	First, I would like to say that with regard to youth housing lending, of course it is part of the concept of “accessible housing”. But what was the purpose of this law, and why is it proposed today? Today, there is no way for the State to buy housing for all in need and there is no possibility of providing cheap mortgages. We're on. A million 200,000 families are living in housing today. The main objective and purpose of the bill is that we should create conditions by regulatory acts to ensure that the housing is first available at a cost. The law pursues such objectives, not the budgetary financing of these programmes, but the creation of conditions for affordable housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u129	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u130	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Tymoshenko. Dear Dmitry Valeriyovich, please tell the citizens of the country how the government implemented the 2009 "Available housing for citizens of the country" programme and what plans the government of Yulia Timoshenko has planned to provide Ukrainian citizens with affordable housing in the current year 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u131	I've already answered that question. Because in 2009, we adopted the Cabinet of Ministers decree on providing citizens with affordable housing from 2010 to 2117. And today this program is unfolding.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u132	Vladimir Grigorovich Yatsuba microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to replace the deputy minister and say what I've done to build housing with 75 percent readiness. Five thousand apartments were purchased, and 147,000 apartments were abandoned in Ukraine. It's over. I have one question. It took two and a half years to prepare the bill. And are the proposals of the President of Ukraine taken into account in the drafting of the decree on the construction of affordable housing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u134	This law was drafted according to the President's decree, so we started to develop it in 2007. Then they were considered on the Committees of the Supreme Council. And it was only today that it was possible to bring it up for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, questions, and answers are exhausted. National Deputy of Ukraine Poljančić Mikhailo Mihajlovich. Please take a seat, Dmitri Valeriovich. As far as Bill 4722 is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u136	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, I would like to begin with the fact that the law is very relevant, given that all the factions have taken part in its development without exception. Of course, the government has passed its law, and I'm not going to detail it, but I'm going to talk about the law that national MPs have drawn up. The purpose of this law is to start a building industry out of crisis, to create a whole system of state support and to provide citizens with housing, to make housing accessible, which is very important, and to create a transparent system of relationships when setting up housing sites, to develop engineering and social infrastructure in accordance with this law. The main criteria are both very important and essential components of the state support system for the construction of affordable housing and its financing mechanisms. The main components of the state support system for affordable housing are the introduction and provision of housing subsidies to citizens to provide affordable housing. Second: the introduction of a system of state guarantees for citizens who receive State support for rent payments for renting housing contracts with a ransom and state guarantees for authorized banks. Third, the creation of a special state housing support fund in the State budget of Ukraine, which is for people who today do not have a real opportunity to buy firsthand housing. Grant to builders self - government authorities and local executives of land from state and municipal forms of property to build affordable housing for the support of the State for renting for the period under this law. Recalculation of funds by the State Treasury of Ukraine to authorized banks in exchange for residence certificates and building subsidies. It also provides funding for the construction of affordable housing for state support through the funding of the grant fund and the refinancing of NBOs of authorized banks under State guarantees. The introduction of a payment mechanism by a citizen, the recipient of State support payments for the purchase of the housing he has chosen, before the construction is completed, by granting such a citizen a loan to an authorized bank for the mortgage of property rights for the housing he has chosen. Refinancing of NBOs of authorized banks to provide state guarantees for authorized banks. Payment of interest on the State budget for the use of short-term loans granted to the NBA by a bank authorized to provide State guarantees for authorized banks. As well as the refinancing of NBOs of authorized banks to provide state guarantees for citizens who receive state support within and within the deadlines set by state guarantees. And last but not least, the introduction of long-term rents for up to 30 years of affordable housing with the purchase of citizens, the recipients of state support. Also, the law, I'd like to say two words, which is different from the law, which is governmental. More in this law is the MP's, more detailed and extensive, and voluminously all the chapters about which I called as the main ones. Well, and it is, of course, more complicated than government, but more clear, detailed, and will say, well, detailed. I would ask the Supreme Council, because this law is, we'll speak, it has both political and practical subordination, and it's very important to support, taking into account in the first reading, taking into account some of the details, maybe government law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u137	Thank you, too, Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you a question. Yes, I'm asking you to put your name on the information board. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u138	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Mikhailovich, indeed, the problem of providing affordable housing is probably the problem that every average person believes in a successful solution. Because as far as these things were concerned, how much was said in the various programs, buying at the expense of a mortgage loan institution of a small number of apartments is not the solution to this problem. We really need to give mechanisms to make sure that everyone has the opportunity to take credit, pay it off, and have the housing that they deserve. And so from this point of view, really, your bill has the advantage of a government project where all of these things are more eloquently accounted for. Please tell me, what would your perspective be on the basis of this law, how long could this program of years be calculated so that at least a high percentage of people could have access to affordable housing?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u139	Well, of course the housing issue is very scrupulous, and today to say that it can be solved, it will be constantly relevant, it will be decided in five or ten years, it's impossible. But the main thing is that the main mechanisms are involved in this law. There's also the state involved, the local self-government, the financial resources involved, well, the developer and the commercial structures and so on. In general. and The National Bank, and the government, that is. And the Treasury. So all the mechanisms and state support and non-State support are written in this law and can participate in the implementation of this law. This is one of the main issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u140	National MP Tishchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u141	Where's Tishchenko? Yuri Carmazin, please. He's gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Mr. Mikhailo, I have certainly studied both your bill and your government bill. I think you've gone a little further, much more thoroughly prepared. And I will support your bill. I just wanted to ask you, do you think, the ratio, when we're faster to accept the changes to the Budget Act? Because you've foreseen in this law that the government is supposed to be making, will we be able to predict for this year the possibility of providing and constructing such affordable housing? Is that possible? And are you ready, the authors of this bill – Polachenko, Greenewecki, Dach, Zviagilski, Royal, Poljančić, Samojlik – to accept the budget so that it is already written?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u143	Thank you for asking, Yuri Anatolyovich. I think it's important that the budget is not yet accepted today. And if we quickly complete and adopt this law, and I think in about a month we will be able to adopt the budget, there is a real possibility in the budget to set the rules that are set out, the budgetary funding that is set out in this law, and practically this year this program is possible to start.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u144	You're not yelling, please. Take your seats. Carmazin's gonna ask you a question, then it's your turn. No, so written down Serbian, there is, there is. Are you all right, Mikhail Mikhailovich? Answered? Please, Yuri Serbin, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. No, no, there's another question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u145	First of all, I was written down earlier by Carmagina. Secondly, I am convinced that if we adopt this law, we will not give up a metre of housing available. But I'll be the one in my speech. Two, three questions. First. You're violating the Constitution by prescribing the new functions of the National Bank. How will you get out of this situation? The other one. You allow your law to build housing, please pay attention, only to the members of the Chamber. Don't you create monopolism? Because only the House will determine who has the right to build housing. Question three. You create some incomprehensible territorial alliances that conflict with the Constitution. I'm only asking three questions. How can we get out of all these situations? And the last. You have 13 pages of scientific expertise. And it advises that this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u146	Please enable the question to be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u147	The question ends with what. The page of observations is almost as much as the law itself. Every question, every question. Infringement of existing legislation and the Constitution is violated twice. How will this situation be rectified?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u148	Dear Sir, I told you that the law is very detailed, cumbersome and asked to be accepted only in the first reading. I know that there are separate objections to articles in this law and questions, what you mentioned. That's why it's accepted, but I think we need to adopt our law by name, because it's more detailed about what I said in the first reading. And for the second reading to complete and adopt in general, including government law, there are also good things, but on the basis of taking our law by name.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u149	Thank you. The questions are exhausted, please sit down. Dear colleagues! The suggestion is to announce a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes, after a recess as a co-reporter, will be made by Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin. Is there no objection? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u150	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue the meetings. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a draft law on providing citizens with affordable housing. I now invite you to the report of the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin. Please, Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I particularly want to address the Communist Party faction. Let's deal with both laws, and if we really want to build affordable housing, let's still define what and what law makes it possible to build this affordable housing. There are shortcomings in government law, and I see flaws in the fact that there are undetermined percentages. From my point of view, that should be 30 percent, because that's what our people are used to, and we've talked about it all the time. And secondly, we have to write down two-year housing planning in this law, both in the Budget Code and in the budget. If we do that, people under state guarantees will carry their 70 percent and we can build affordable housing, give citizens housing, and raise the building industry if there's two-year planning. And it's only in 2011 that big houses are built for two years on average, you're going to need a budget grant. Now, let's move on to the MP law, which is what it's going to lead to, and I'm not saying in general that we're not building any meters at all, but now in order. The first is monopolism, building housing is only for those who enter the building room. We've been seeing for many years that we want to create, try to create a monopoly on the construction market, everyone else will run by the chamber and ask for the right to build housing -- it's clearly prescribed, and that's the basic parameter of this law. If you want to create a monopoly all over Ukraine, vote in favour of this law. The second question. There's a direct violation of the Constitution, there's a kind of misunderstanding of the coordination board, which is above both the National Bank and the government. Trying to run the National Bank is an absolute violation of the Constitution, trying to run the government is a violation of the Cabinet of Ministers Act. Next. This law creates some incomprehensible territorial communities that include cities, villages, villages, that is, we don't need the division of Ukraine in the area, areas, because we're going to have some incomprehensible territorial communities. I think it's also a direct violation of the Constitution. And when the authors are boasting, I'm sure none of them have read this law, because if they had read it, they would never have put it, their honorable signature under this law. [[These are very important MPs.]] Because that's who's going to create these territorial communities -- we don't know how they're going to create -- we don't know who's going to run it -- we don't know. Next. Besides these coordination boards, we have 13 percent contradictions here. I see, let me give you just a few examples, we have state guarantees for individuals -- something that legal persons get. And these are detailed, they say, in detail, the authors of the disagreement with all the legislative acts in force in Ukraine are constantly and these are all pages of this legislative act. Of course, for political reasons, it is possible to adopt a law that has been drafted by our respected fellow MPs. But it needs to be rewritten, in general, completely out of this position and write it down, and we're still going to come to the government law. Why I'm still under government law and our faction will support this, but we're not going to support it for political reasons. And if we want to build a state residence, by which the President's decree and the Cabinet of Ministers have already been passed, and the funds have been allocated, then let's put this in the government law, remove the inadequacies that are there, that's what my colleague at Mr. Lisov's committee will be talking about, and he can work if there's two-year planning. Under the second law, we will have nothing but a declaration. Thank you for your attention. The Committee believes that the first legislative act is needed by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u152	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u153	And the second piece of legislation needs to be recasted, and the better part of them, of all of them, is to be incorporated into the first law. I am again addressing those factions that have not read this law, where there are gross violations of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u154	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies, please? Igor Lisov, please. Please. Deputies of Lisov. Next is George Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, the question that is now in the order of the day is important and very important to our state. And after reading the positions of both laws, of course, they are first of all declarative. Because in order to write such important documents, we would first have to be with you to determine the extent of the problem that exists in the construction sector today and to provide housing for the population. Today, about 200,000 families in Ukraine need to improve living conditions according to our Housing Code. It's a large number of square meters and, you know, talking only about affordable housing is absolutely small. In addition to affordable housing, there is a need to talk about comfortable living conditions. In order to make a living, it is proposed that the tax on the development of the engineering and transport infrastructure and the social removal should be applied. Then you and I will live in apartments that, and people will not be able to bring their children into kindergartens, into a school of physical culture, or school. To consider this document, we need to work very seriously on the development of the program. First of all, if you can, your honor, a little bit quieter because it's hard to speak, you need to work seriously on the overall development plan of areas and cities where housing needs to be built. It cannot be that the General Plan of Kiev was approved in 1986 by the Cabinet of Ministers, and it was reconfirmed in the 2002 session of the Kiev City Council. This requires a more serious housing policy. Next. It is highly desirable that this program, which is under consideration today, be incorporated into the status of the national program, as is done in many countries. Remove all media outlets. There's only a customer, a bank, and a buyer. There can't be another layer, because it's essential, it's total corruption. And for the population that it needs, of course, to make a cheap mortgage. Unfortunately, time is short, so I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u156	Please, yes, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u157	Yes, it is. The law in first reading can be supported, only the very important thing to do today is to make the details that I am proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next Oleg Zarubinsky will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u159	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. It is certainly very difficult for you to adopt a bill. I'd just like to say, we're used to talking negatives about government work, actually, about what's going on outside the window. Who provided today, and how many years later did those who did not move were provided? This very government, Julia Tymoshenko, has now provided for those who have not moved in at all, very few people. So what I'd like to say is, in principle, we could consider this bill, which is now, 4124, some kind of continuation of government action. But why is there not enough? What a colleague of Serbians has just said is not enough. Let's put it this way, there's not enough detail and there's not enough soul. And it's not enough that there's a second option in detail, but I can't say that there's more to it, the details are more anti-corruption or corruption. I'm talking about the MP bill. Why? The creation of numerous organs, commissions, their ratios, changes to the Civil Code that the committee is planning to make. You remember, we had three readings of the Civil Code, he went to the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission and everything. And here we're masquerading the changes and so on into the Civil Code. It scares me so much when such things are done. In addition, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the election passed, the election passed, no longer on January 17th, it will soon be February 17th. On February 17th, we have a decree. On December 17, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, one of the legislators, came to an end. There are also amendments to the Natzbank Act on a single bill, in the MP's. So let's maybe now ask the President a question, pick up the phone, you have one connection with him, by the way, and he's running out of 23 more, just Ukraine didn't notice that he's no longer supposed to do his job today, I mean Victor Yushchenka. And I, Mr. Chechetov, give you the right to a replica, Your Honor, no, Yanukovich the President, unfortunately, very many violations, unfortunately, will not happen. But I'd like to tell you that for two years you've been unconstitutionally holding the head of the Supreme Court of Commerce. He made a decision for you on Medjugorje, and he made it three days before the election. What else do you want, what do you have? Take it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u160	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Finally, there will be a replication. Oleg Zarubinsky, then Mikola Tomenko will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u161	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, your honor, if you please, I am on the subject of the content of the proposed bill, but first I would like to remind you. There have been many references, which are appropriate constitutional rules for providing people, Ukrainian citizens, housing. I will allow myself two parts, the first and the second, of article 47 of the Constitution, to remind myself: “Everyone has the right to housing. The state creates conditions under which every citizen will be able to build a residence, acquire it or rent it.” And the second part of this 47 article: “Citizens in need of social protection are granted housing free of charge by the State and local authorities or for their available wages according to the law.” Based on the provisions of the Constitution, the very name of the proposed bills is the same for one, and for the other, the Act on the provision of accessible housing for the communities certainly looks correct, correct, relevant, urgent and so forth. But since the drafters here have spoken many good words, it is clear about their bills. I wouldn't be stressing positives right now, but I'd be saying things that obviously need to be corrected and that are not good enough. I'm taking the 4722 bill from her. I see a serious flaw in the project that there is virtually no state control over the use of State budget funds, the cost of public support for the construction of affordable housing, particularly by regulating the level of profitability, the wages of higher management of construction organizations. In the same bill, the very term, I draw your attention, “the housing built for the support of the state” is not equivalent to “accessible housing”. Because, on the one hand, other housing, such as social housing, is to be built with the help of the State, and on the other hand, affordable housing is to be built without State funds. We're looking at Law 4124. The project deals with the creation of affordable housing through the reconstruction of housing and the remodeling of non-residential housing. Similarly, questions arise about the number of citizens who are entitled to affordable housing. This account should be, the accounting mechanism is defined in more detail, and it should first be determined whether these persons are accounted for separately and how it relates to the total number of persons. In other words, I think there's a lot of rules in both of these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u162	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, the question is very important. And I remember that this session hall is no longer the first time there is an attempt to establish a legislative base to provide citizens with affordable housing. And that's the problem that on this good subject, neither the authorities nor the people's deputies -- I mean now two bills -- can offer an optimal and correct system of how this should be done. Moreover, we have experience both good and bad that can be analyzed. And the last six months, for example, were still attempts by local self-government authorities to do that in order to get out of the way of this system, to write a mechanism that would allow us not to build ten buildings, but to allow us to build millions of square meters of housing. Now on the bill, of course, yes, frankly, this MP bill I'm going to be reading lectures, because right now I don't have time, so, according to legislation, I would take as an example what drafts in the Supreme Council don't need to be registered. Well, when a serious MP group is going to come together and write a bill for a few firms that they write down in detail, it means what benefits they can make, how to simplify their lives, it means how to make them breathe easier, moving from one area to another, as it's written priorities for specific areas where this firm works. Well, friends, well, isn't that the level of the Ukrainian Parliament and the MPs that do it? Moreover, I have great respect for Vladimir Avrumovich Polachenko, but he is no longer in charge of Kyivmishkbud, and Peter Schelluk has also been expelled as a class manager. There will probably be some third deputies there soon, so let's write this bill to make sure that he takes the rest of the land under the guise of affordable housing. Instead, there are problems in the government bill, although I think it can be taken as a basis. This bill has a systemic problem with the fact that we have no understanding of the responsibility that if we have a businessman or a construction company winning a competition and getting land, it will not want to build this affordable dwelling there. The law states that the local government will decide not to use land builders for other purposes, such as elite housing. I have a question: what kind of decision can you stop a developer from building another apartment? So it has to be a responsibility, it has to be a right, for example, for the government to stop the agreement at any time, if it's building a skyscraper, because it's given the land for free. So, my friends, I think it's very important, but it's a special topic that we don't have access to affordable housing to distribute the rest of the land fund in the central parts of our country. So I suggest that the government accept it as a foundation and actively work it so that there is no shadow of corruption or of lobbyism, and here was the experience of those people who have stood in line for decades and have no chance of getting a good, maybe cheaper, but quality housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for your speeches, your speeches, your speeches by the national deputies. It's a recording. Please put your names on the information board. Vladimir Grigorovich Yatsuba, then Serbian Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u165	Honorable national deputies, honourable citizens of Ukraine, who stand in line for housing, and who are indeed worth a million! The history of the law that we're looking at right now, I mean the government law, started back in 2007. It began before the President's decree on the construction of affordable housing was adopted. And this law is certainly necessary. Needless to say, during the past ten years, some 2,000 people have been living on the line for 200 million people, and it is understandable that Ukraine will not be able to solve such a huge problem as the provision of special housing for young families over a period of 100 years. So it is in the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction, with the participation of two deputies, who, Praise God, are working now, that this bill has been drafted. And I think that, according to some remarks, I would ask all the national MPs, regardless of political preferences, to assure you that on the committee, when we considered this bill, virtually all the political factions of the Supreme Council supported this bill. By the way, some paragraphs of the second alternative bill were supported, which was drafted under the leadership of Vladimir Avrumovich Polachenko. So my proposal is to support this bill. Except for the amount of the mortgage. There are so many questions. I wouldn't want to put the mortgage funding situation on hold right now. But I think in the second reading we'll take these comments into account, and the bill will be adopted. And what I want to tell you today is that today is a conference of all associations of builders led by the Building House of the Association of Construction Manufacturers. I just got in touch with them. They have the situation. And they also asked for their support for the bill to be passed on to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u166	Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, I have already criticized one law, supported another. But what I want to say is what it takes to start building affordable housing. First, we must learn to obey our laws. If we're talking about the capital, the capital is first. Because you and I have recorded 2.5 percent of the cost of housing. This is not happening in the capital. By all means, I'm not talking about huge bribes anymore. And here I really hope that our prosecutor's office will go back to making these laws, which are, come true. That's first and foremost. The other one. The law is available. This law, the government, provides a basis for us to actually provide land where affordable housing can be built. Two years ago, the Ministry of Regional Development prepared and prepared such areas with local administrations. And if we now adopt this law as a basis, if we can put two-year planning into the Budget Code, we will immediately open the way to affordable housing. I don't want to criticize the MP's respectable law, but work on it, rewrite it for a year, and it'll be a waste of time again. Because if we start building affordable housing, we'll once again have some questions that can be taken into account in practice. It is certainly necessary to take into account the comments of a colleague named Lisov, a colleague of Yatsuba, but this is ready and will be released in two weeks. So please support the government law in the first reading, and let's do it this year, the government started in 2009 in 2010, to continue this building of affordable housing, but at a higher and more serious pace. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u168	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u169	I'm in the middle of a speaker's end. I really want to say that President Yanukovic, with the new Government, is not speaking, but will really take the problem of housing seriously. Now, as far as draft law 4124 is concerned. The project proposes to identify legal, organizational and economic policy principles for the provision of housing for citizens who do not have the right to social housing, affordable housing, which are understood as being built and which are built for state-owned housing, complexes, including residential, one-bedroom housing, and apartment housing. I would like to point out that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has already introduced a draft of the new Ukrainian Housing Code of 30.03 for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 09, which also addresses the issue of ensuring that citizens of Ukraine have access to affordable housing. In addition, it should be noted that article 3 of the project deals only with the identification of those involved in financing the construction of affordable housing. In doing so, it is appropriate to make it clear that these are the ones who will receive the built - up dwelling. At the same time, according to part two of article 1 of the project, affordable housing is created not only by building new housing but also by purchasing it in the secondary market. Renovation of dwellings, as well as refurbishment of non-residential homes. However, who will specifically finance and receive such housing, unlike the construction of new housing in the project, is not defined. It should also be noted that the project deals with the creation of affordable housing through the reconstruction of housing and the remodeling of non-residential housing. In addition, the project does not define the characteristics and requirements of the mechanism to ensure that citizens are granted a mortgage mortgage for construction, and that they have access to affordable housing. But the problem needs to be solved, and this bill, taking into account these shortcomings, needs to be adopted in the first reading. And we're going to propose to take the first reading, we're going to vote, and we're going to ask you to support this proposal, and then quickly, taking into account these suggestions and comments that have been made from this rostrum, including the factions of the Party of Regions, to refine and accept it in the second reading, and to put it into effect, yes. I think that the new president, Victor Janukovic, will take very seriously the issue of housing, not in words, but in action.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u170	Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u171	Your Honor, my fellow Members, I believe that we should adopt this bill in the first reading and complement it with many other positions. What I want to say is, as a member of the budget committee, I've been working on a service housing program for over a year, not only affordable housing, but it should be service housing. We see today what level of corruption we have in law enforcement agencies, in all other structures. Today we cannot provide these people with a large salary, but today we can provide them with a roof over our heads. And it should be if he came to the service -- he got this apartment, and he makes his choice -- whether he wants to take a bribe and lose this apartment, or whether he really wants to work on the system and after he works on this state, he gets this apartment. So in this bill, we have to predict in our second reading, not for two years, but for ten years after the creation of a service home for people who, in fact, each year are under bullets and who should understand that they have two things: they have a secure family and they have a commitment to the state. That's the first one. It's different. It says that I'm concerned with the phrase “authorized banks”, and we see that banks are now involved in Ukraine. The state has refinanced and the state has recapitalized many banks, there must be only the state banks that should be involved in these programs. Because after that, we're going to be looking for these banks that we financed for a long time. We have this program "Ukraine-3,000" and everything else. We've been looking for this money for a long time. So I insist that the banks that have to finance this project at the expense of the State should be just state banks. There are many more questions. There's a project developed by specialists from different ministries of employment, and I'd like to add to the committee, but please support the government project. Because this, really, first of all, is going to boost the economy, second of all, it's going to give people -- most of all, this roof over their heads. It's a small country for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u172	The discussion is over. Is there a need in the closing word of reporters and coreporters? You don't? If that is not necessary then please ask the national MPs to prepare for the vote. It is up to the vote on the first reading of the draft law on the provision of affordable housing by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4124]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:03:40]] For the 320. The bill was adopted in the first reading. The alternative bill thus does not apply to voting. Right to the replica, Chechtev Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, our distinguished lawyer, Yuri Anatolevich Karmazin, said that on 23 January, the term of Presidential office, Viktor Andrejevic, had expired. [[And I can't help but agree with him.]] And I can't help but agree that today, right now, Yuri Anatolyevich has admitted that Victor Fedorovich is already president. The only thing that must be done, Yuri Anatolyevich, is to address Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko so that she doesn't hesitate and leave Grushevsky faster, to stop the faction, to congratulate new President Viktor Fedorovic for his election, and to give him the opportunity to work. That's right. Thank you. We support you. Just go to Julia Vladimirovna again, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u174	A draft Act amending the Housing and Utilities Act is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4686]] Reported to Minister of Housing and Utilities Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u175	Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, this draft law is designed to improve the legal regulation of housing-communal relations, taking into account today's requirements. The bill introduces a new edition of the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, which introduces new novels along with the applicable rules of the law, including: The bill provides for a clearer distinction between the terms “executor”, “service provider”, “consumer”, and their legal obligations. More clearly defined concepts of "communal services" and "residential services". The basic principles of housing and utility tariff policy have been defined, including the openness and transparency of the procedures for setting these tariffs for residential services and, in particular, the use of tariffs and budgets. Avoid cross-subsidisation of one type of farm activity at the expense of another, one category of consumers at the expense of another. The obligation to cover and economically sound the costs of performers and the costs of upgrading and developing appropriate infrastructure. The implementation of a compensation system that is paid to consumer performers in the event that the performance requirements for the quality of the service are violated. This, I think, is especially relevant today for the Chinese who are trying to get credit for the services they didn't get. This is to stimulate the efficient use of municipal resources and energy conservation. The economic incentives of performers, quantitative and qualitative indicators of residential services that meet the requirements of standards, standards, norms, order, rules. The other one. The bill allows owners of nonresidential and residential buildings in a multi - apartment building, which includes a pool of co-owners, to choose the performers on their own. In the event of a lack of selection of service providers, a clearer procedure for determining local self - government on a competitive basis is envisaged. In order to meet the health and hygiene requirements of human beings, to provide technical requirements for the operation of buildings and to maintain the unsustainable capacity of structures, a list of the minimum housing and utility services is set out and the order for damages to be compensated if they are not fully or improperly provided. One of the key norms introduced by the new law is the establishment of responsibility for violations of legislation in the area of housing services, including amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations. A list of housing-communal offences has been identified, there has been damage caused by violations of legislation in this area. The mandate of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district of Kyiv and Sevastopol City Public Administrations in the area of housing and utility services for the licensing of economic activities has been clarified. The adoption of the bill will help to improve the legal framework governing housing services relations, as well as providing services to consumers at the necessary levels of independent quality and at affordable prices. And lastly, I would like to call on the honourable people's MPs, not depending on the political processes, their colors, to urge them to support this completely non-political bill, first of all. And second of all, I'd like to tell you my point of view, frankly, as the minister of what's going on today in this very, very difficult area. If anyone thinks that we can still fail to understand that this is our shared responsibility both to the Supreme Council and to the government and to this, and to the previous and local self-government bodies, and, of course, to our citizens, who also have to become partners in the housing and utility enterprises in carrying out this reform, it is to take another step towards a breakthrough. We need to make real reform. Six months ago, you and I adopted a reform program, but this is just the beginning. The reform programme calls for the adoption of a whole range of laws that actually run effective mechanisms, tools to implement this reform. And to this day we are in debt and in front of the industry and in front of our citizens. And that's why I urge you that we don't have one or two bills today that can systematically solve a set of problems. Only a complex, one-minute adoption of a package of bills, the introduction of transparent investment mechanisms, control mechanisms, the involvement of investors in reform can, in fact, begin to remove housing from the disgraceful state in which it is located today. So I ask you very much, in support of this bill, to depoliticize as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u176	Question to the reporter. Please log in. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u177	Mr. Secretary, it is clear how important this bill and it must, of course, be supported. But I have a question like this. Tell me what you need, what the rules of this law need to be supplemented in order to control the setting of prices for utilities in different regions. They're so different that they don't say. For example, municipal services in Lutsk are Volin, higher than the cost of utility services in Kiev, where they are still much more available, and they are more complex. Who, then, can regulate these processes? This is no way to redeem local areas of price - fixing, and our citizens are suffering from it, for there is nowhere to be found protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u178	Dear Catherine Timothy, thank you for asking. And really, I feel the cry of the soul, because today, unfortunately, from the municipal barons, I would call them that, from the land are not protected, nor are the poor, nor are the MPs. You know, I have hundreds of complaints with members of the Supreme Council who are hand-soldiers and say, “We don’t know, protect us from our Jack.” That's why the government has both a reform strategy and a reform programme that you've adopted provides that there should be a government authority responsible for tariff policy. We can't continue to give it as a ransom, at the level of local self-government. Because it's a very vivid example of Kiev. We didn't want it bad when we put it on the level of the cities. But thanks to the very and very powerful budget that we are all paying with you, that's how the Kiev authorities have been trying for a long time to maintain populist tariff policy. [[It's Kiev's budget, it's not the city's budget, it's our money with you.]] And that was electoral technology. But today, when Kiev's budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u179	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u180	We can't even provide doctors and educators, so we really feel what's going on in Kiev today. That's why another kind of maintenance service, first of all, for the ideologies of reform, is going to be a very important step in this market, a player, is a union of joint owners of multiple apartment buildings. It is they who will dictate both the prices and the service requirements that will be offered to us in the competitive market that we will provide with you. That's what the ideology of reform is all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u181	Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich. You probably don't sit in your seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u182	I'm in my place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u183	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u184	Mr. Secretary, I have the same question, because in the authority of the local authorities, self-government remains a function of tariff formation. So we see that this is disassociating with what you're saying is that the central control should only create programs, has approximate methods of designing these tariffs, and yet it's going to be done by the local self-government. That's why I'm a little alert today. The other question is that today all basic, forming utilities are not privatized -- they're stolen into states. This is illustrated by the city of Kiev. So what are we going to do when we, there, buy the Kiev Channel for 200 million nuts? What are we going to do with Kiyevenergoholding, where the lost part of the state and city? And everything else. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u185	Well, on the other side. The problem is not that he's buying nuts, the main thing is that he's professionally engaged in his main activities: providing water and sanitation services. As far as the Kiev situation is concerned, that's one thing. And so far neither the Ministry nor the Kyiv community knows exactly who, under what conditions, this communal property has been transferred. And the problem is, you know that. I'm philosophical about what kind of property. Sooner or later, perhaps today a very important law of honourable colleagues will be passed, a progressive bill, in the first reading: concession, rent. The main thing is to ensure a system of government regulation, tariff control, consumer protection. And the State's argument becomes very strong -- it's a license for this kind of activity. And then, if it's going to be our common political will with you, I can guarantee you that anyone in the next licensing body can either force this tenant or concessionaire to perform and provide services by standards, or by way of others, so to speak, to change this concessionaire. It's perfectly normal, it's philosophical. So all of this is part of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u186	Please complete the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u187	Abstinence will always be a city. The government. As far as housing is concerned, it's a city, you don't have to leave the central level. Water, heat, is a state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u188	Please, the question of Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u189	Dear Alexander Yuriovich, we have a contradiction in legislation, we have tariffs that are approved by execution, and then MPs write complaints to the Supreme Council, to the Cabinet of Ministers and everything. If he wants to build a clear control system, how do you feel about us adopting such an amendment, let it not be the subject of this law, but we do have another draft law, which is still based on all the schedules, with all the data given by the controlling authorities and the authorities that are going to be counted, and still have approved the MPs, not the execution. What is your attitude toward this?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u190	Dear Yuri Sergiyovich, both, and the other model has the right to life, which is, in fact, all the issues around tariffs today, by the way. And here I am, and when the previous bill was discussed, first of all, you have to admit that the existing tariff system is deadlocked, that's all. To do that, you have to choose a model and I'm convinced that we're 99 percent, and together with the opposition, I don't know who the opposition is today, who's not, we can determine. But you have to understand, it's not just one thing, it's a change to one law. We have to make, make changes to the law on prices, pricing, local self-government, model with you, I'm sure when these political battalions fail, we'll work. The main thing is to adopt and apply the new rules of the game, preparing all the subjects, first of all, our consumers with you, or us with you. Therefore, the contradiction is a principle that cannot be seen today, and the comments that we have are ready to take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u191	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexi Juryovich, I have gladly accepted your proposed law and will certainly support it. All I have is a question for you: in article 24, you provided for the responsibility of violating legislation in the area of housing and utilities. I mean, what are the offences in housing services? But in article 154, you're adding, you're just saying that you're violating legislation in the area of housing services, that you're essentially restricting responsibility and not doing it for all of the misdemeanors in the area of housing services. In my opinion, this is a completely unserious approach, it needs to be changed, because responsibility has to be borne for all the misdemeanors in the area of housing services. And people need to know that if Chernewsky didn't provide something, he has to be drawn to some responsibility, if someone else is different. Just like the user. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u193	Yuri Anatolyevich, I completely agree with you. But agree that this law does not have to define a system of overlays, as it were, of these administrative and others. So here we're just determined that directly the service provider has to be responsible. And by the way, taking this opportunity, dear friends, you all know that over the last two or three weeks, it's just an accident when people broke into the hatch. Now, today, I have a text message, and today, I'm sorry, a three-year-old kid just fell back into the hatch, you know? Luckily, she's alive. The government has prepared changes to the Ukrainian Penal Code to strengthen responsibility. But I have another question, well, well, you and I will adopt this law in a month. What do the local authorities need, how many more people must fall into these hatches to take appropriate action? That is why we need to adopt laws, but in principle others need to be treated by individual local authorities and local authorities. And I think it's this complex one-minute approach that can really show people what we know how to get housing out of this gap that it's in. This bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u194	National MP Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u195	Dear reporter! Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. It seems to me that the problem that we are discussing today lies in this space, between the hammer and the fork. On the one hand, this is, of course, an almost reactive increase in tariffs, and very different regions of Ukraine. And on the other hand, of course, there is an ever-increasing increase in the quality of services that we have. But it seems to me that one of the keys that could solve this problem, which we are discussing today, is the formation of a unit of tenants of apartment buildings. This law does not touch much of this problem, but it is very important, and we know how it is blocked from all sides today. As a national MP, I have just a ton of letters from this point of view, and I haven't spoken to the city twice, and I've addressed you, and I've addressed the local authorities, but that's not the issue. How can we do, clean up, simplify the registration of these social organizations that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u196	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u197	such formations that can solve the problem on their own, which is not always, especially today, a powerful state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u198	Dear Mr. Yavorowski, I completely agree with you. Moreover, as a minister over the past two years, I have made some radical changes in my attitude toward further unification mechanisms. And that's exactly what you're talking about -- this is the problem -- voluntary social networking. But they're not voluntary, they're not public. It is the responsibility of people to establish their ownership of the house in which they live. This is de jure prescribed by our legislation. And that's why we need to move on to the system of auto-establishing these compounds with a condition of support from the State Budget, with the minds of the local budget. and this is the responsibility of the local authorities. Now for the tariffs. When the concession bill was being considered, it was a very interesting moment. I just want to support my colleague, Mr. Popov, who answered Mrs. Alexandrian's question. How do we make sure that we don't increase our tariffs by passing on to the concession? Dear friends, it's working very badly. 50 percent water loss, Fifty percent loss of heat. The share of electricity is not justified.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u199	Alexi Yuriovich! Alexei Yuriovich! Alexei Yuriovich! We need to pause and then finish the answer to the question. Please. Please complete your answer to the question so that you can be heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! So first of all, in order to survive housing and utilities, you have to understand that the tariff has to cover their expenses. If they don't, they'll go down. The other one. There is a need for government and social control of these tariffs, as well, for these tariffs. And the third. Of course, this transition has to be not fast enough to allow us to compensate and subsidize, and budget support may not have brought people into shock, so to speak. It's all going through other countries of the world, and you know, I don't think we have any particular Ukrainian path.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u201	Thank you, sit down, please. The report is by Alexander Pavlovich Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u202	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! On October 21, last year, our committee discussed the draft law. At the time, we had the Committee's findings from the Scientific and Expert Office, as well as colleagues from the Regulatory Committee. We have observed that the Scientific and Experimental Authority has a large number of observations to this bill and they offer it for the results of the first reading to be rejected. Our colleagues in the Regulatory Committee pointed out that several of the regulatory changes during the drafting of the bill, but after discussion and commenting on some of the comments that the members of the committee might have taken into account in their preparation for the second reading, the majority of the votes had been taken to bring it up to date, to the first reading and to take it up on the first reading. I'd like to be the deputy head of the committee who's responsible for this particular direction to express my individual opinion on this matter, if I can literally do it at the expense of saved time. The point is, if we get to know the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, we can understand, if we take them into account, we'll practically rewrite and significantly rewrite the text of that bill that is currently being discussed. In addition, when changes are made, the text does not change, but when a new editorial changes, we sometimes solve some problems, and we give birth to others. For example, from the text of the law that was proposed, articles such as regulations on housing and utility services, certification and licensing in the area of housing and utility services have emerged. Article 14 of the last Act on Housing and Utilities in force, by order of approval of prices and tariffs and so forth. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in defining the terms, some positions have been lost that are understood to us today as those that need to remain. For example, there is no reference to household garbage, more faithful waste, and a list of utilities. And what is at risk to the public is the risk of losing the benefit of such services to individual categories of citizens. So my point here is that really the bill, it's going to solve some of the serious problems that we have, the more that we have recently changed, other forms have emerged, other government structures that care about housing and utilities. For example, housing inspection. So there's definitely a redistribution of some functions, powers, something getting stronger, something getting smaller. So this work has to be continued. And we already have this practice on the committee when the bill is to prepare the committee for the re-reading, and we, together with the ministry, with the deputies, with the interested public organizations, are going to make some compromise decisions. It's my personal opinion that we should re-read it and then accept it in the first, and ensure that it goes on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u203	Thank you. Have a seat, please. So maybe if there was no objection, we would immediately re-read it or discuss it. Please sign up for the discussion. If we are reorienting, what should we discuss? Please. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u204	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The faction of the Party of the Regions is pleased that our work has moved towards a constructive and professional path, and the final vote of 300 and 300 shows that almost a majority of us have been created under the new President Viktor Fedorović Janukovic. The bill provides for the creation of conditions for the effective functioning of operators, which operates in the area of residential services, as well as the provision of services to consumers in the necessary quantities of good quality and affordable prices. It should be noted that the issue of further improvement in the legal regulation of housing-communal services relations is more appropriate to decide in the new Ukrainian Housing Code, which is being implemented by national deputies: Fish and Popov. Because these relationships are an integral part of housing relationships that result from construction, giving, maintaining, and paying for housing, and so forth. We believe that the project requires a clearer definition of the authority of local self-government: The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the districts of Kiev and Sevastopol City Public Administrations and the central executive authorities in the area of housing and utilities. The project seeks to address only prices and tariffs for utilities only. I would like to stress once again that the project is trying to address only the question of setting prices and tariffs for utilities only, while housing prices are out of the question. That's why we think the bill is necessary, and it needs to be worked out, and it needs to be put into effect by voting in the hall. But unfortunately, today's faction of the Party of Regions is proposing that it be sent for re-reading, so that we don't reject this bill, but return to it from processing at this session. In the first reading, in the second reading, they were accepted and put into practice. Ask for support, send for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u205	Valerius Kamchatny, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Yuri Serbin, please. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, the question is really, really important, and it needs to be addressed. And I fully agree with my colleague Popov, and with the Minister of Social Affairs, that this is only one step to implement the housing reform programme. Without control, we won't do anything. But other steps need to be taken. I don't believe it, and here I don't agree with the minister that we have all the panacea from our diseases is the creation of OSBB. I don't really believe we can make them. Because we didn't convince people that they owned it. We made a mistake in the first call when we went the wrong way by privatizing housing. We don't have an effective owner. And until we create it, there will be no control, and there will be no order. And OSBB, if we get up to 40 percent, either the minister or the government needs to put a monument in life. So the first task is to create an effective owner of this apartment. But without control, it's impossible. There are many shortcomings in this law. But we know our mechanism that if we send him out for work right now, he'll be in the hall no sooner than six months from now. So I totally support the proposal that's already been made here -- to send it back to the first reading, and the group, and we've already learned to work, a group of committees, along with the ministry, to work it out on the first reading and on the second reading, because it's really necessary. Our faction will support this bill in a re-first reading. And I'm asking the other factions to back it up as well. Thank you for your attention. Because you can't lose him. This is a very important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u207	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. The next one will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u208	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! First, two principles of proposal for the text of the bill. In article 4, this is obviously going to be in the process of re-reading, obviously we have to leave, not obvious, and we demand this among the principles of public policy in the area of housing and utilities: ensuring social protection for low-income citizens -- first; and secondly, regulating prices and tariffs for residential services. This is the first principle of supply. And the second. The project is really trying, it's trying, it's trying, it's trying, it's trying, it's trying, it's trying, it's trying to work out, it's setting prices and tariffs. But this is only a question of setting prices and tariffs for utilities while housing prices are out of the question. And that's the principle. And two points that don't, to some extent, apply to the text itself, but are important in view of what I said. First moment. Why is it that today's heating calculation takes place in square meters. We do not know that one apartment is two and a half feet [2 m] high, and the other pansy choirs are five meters high. And you get exactly the same calculation. And there, let's say, 15 square meters, and there's 15 square meters, although when the ceilings are high, it's twice the cost of the heat. This needs to change the system radically, it's an unfair system, it's a comparison, first of all, for the rich, who have a five - foot [5 m] high dwelling. And second moment. Please tell me, when it comes to electricity and other VAT services, what does it count for? Tax on added value? To the added value! Why does this VAT go all the way? Not to the sum of this added value? When an electric company buys electricity, the VAT goes to the full amount that the consumer is exposed to. Where is it? Well, it's just a scam, sorry, it's just a hoax. I believe that these things that I said would be taken into account in the drafting of this bill. Once again, the heat is cubic meters, not square meters. And second moment. You can't figure out what this added value is, you can't figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u209	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u210	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The question now, then, is, What should we do, adopt the law, send it back for rereading, or not accept at all? Now we're living without law. As a result, there is what happens when you are approached by people and told that there are such imbalances, such as the local authorities. And as long as we don't accept this law, so much will continue. So living with the law is much better. I see all the flaws in this law, I see everything that is written by the Science-Expert Authority, which has made a lot of remarks to this law. True, not all comments could have been written four times as many. What are some of the urgent cases involving saving lives, property in the absence of a consumer, and the inability to make contact with it, or refusal to allow it into the premises of a representative? the realization, entry into the home, and other possession of the person. This is article 20, paragraph 3, 4, 5. So there's this kind of innovation here that's so serious that society's not quite ready for. But I would ask you to adopt this law in the first reading and unlock today this vast array of problems called housing services. That's the first one. The other one. I see a huge plus in that at least we've predicted what a housing-communal offence is -- what's in article 24 of the project, what we've foreseen antitrust restrictions, and we're trying to say something in this direction, and now we're asking these questions. I asked the minister where. Why? Because he was asking questions because they were proposing to amend the Code on Administrative Violations, to complete article 154 with the badge 1, which is called “The Violations by Law Enforcementers in the Field of Housing and Utilities. But this article and its responsibility do not correspond at all with what they propose in article 24. I think what we need to do is make sure there's a correspondence. And, sir, to the representative of the Party of the Regions, because I was not given a replica of the end of the presidency, I want to say that under the current Constitution, when the President's term ended, or in other circumstances he left his post, these duties are performed by the Head of the Supreme Council. So I think that the regions of me should hear and not rush, please bring Mr. Yanukovich to an oath, because I think it's impossible because of the violations of legislation that have occurred in a number of areas that are absolutely transparent to all, except they have not been seen by paid, let's say, foreign representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u211	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, who else is insisting on the performance? Are there any more speakers? I can't see. Ladies and gentlemen, I am proposing a vote on adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, as a basis. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 4686]] [[13:39:45]] For 132 Decision taken. I would like to place a second motion for re-reading the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 4686]] [[13:40:14]] For 254 Decision taken. Please, a replica of Mikhail Chechtchev. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u212	Yuri Anatolyevich, well, look at board 362. This once again says that it is almost not just the majority, and the constitutional majority has already been created under President Yanukovic. And you deny something, I don't understand it, yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are only working the morning plenary session. We have three questions to consider. How do you feel about this proposal: Two draft laws that we have to consider under a reduced procedure, and the question of the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of situations related to allegations of juvenile depravity, which cannot be resolved because there is no shorter procedure. So I'm going to put this proposal to the vote, and I'm going to ask you to back up: to consider the two issues that we have left over are bills 4179 and 5228 -- alternatively, by reduced procedure, and to conclude the morning session. Please vote. Roman Mikhailovich, please support. [[13:41:41]] For 248 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Amnesty Act is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 4179]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of Malishev Vladimir Stepanovic's activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u214	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Amnesty Act. In fact, this law is laid out in a new edition. The main thrust of the draft law has been the huge number of citizens who have come to our committee since the last law was passed by Parliament. Citizens are indignant that at the stage of the pretrial investigation, criminals are released. As an example, the release from criminal punishment of persons found guilty of an explosion of natural gas on Mandrikowska Street in Dnipropetrovsk when several dozen of our fellow countrymen were killed and injured. The draft was preceded by a large preparatory work, during which the committee approached all Ukrainian embassies abroad. Taking this opportunity, from this high rostrum on behalf of the committee, I thank our ambassadors for understanding and providing the committee with comprehensive information on this matter. This will allow us to take advantage of the experience of amnesty and pardon in the countries of Europe, Asia and America, including France, Germany, Britain, Russia, and the United States of America and Canada. National deputies of the committee concluded that almost nowhere in the world is amnesty applied in Ukraine. Amnesty in its essence does not rehabilitate a citizen, so it does. Based on the general regulations governing the Amnesty Institute and the basic principles of criminal law, the Law on the Application of Amnesty required both conceptual and technical improvements and bringing it into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. I'd like to draw your attention to the main novelties of the project: the prohibition of amnesty at the stage of knowledge, the pretrial investigation, and when a criminal case is being brought before a court, but it's not being considered last. Expansion of the number of convicted persons before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u215	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u216	An increase in the number of convicted persons to whom amnesty cannot be applied at all, first of all, to those convicted for committing a deliberate grave, or especially serious, crime that has occurred less than two thirds of the prescribed term of punishment; those convicted of crimes of average gravity that have occurred less than half of the prescribed term of punishment, as well as those who have committed any degree of gravity which has resulted in the death of two or more persons. The change in the order of release of convicted persons from the imposition of an additional penalty, the exemption from additional punishment, in addition to the confiscation of property, may take place only if, on the day of recruitment, the amnesty law has not been carried out on the part of the additional penalty, and the exemption from the penalty may only be provided that the person is sentenced to such punishment after the adoption of the Amnesty Law. Otherwise, the convicted person is not exempt from payment of the fine, and the fine paid is not returned to him. In view of the repeal of the law on the possibility of applying amnesty at the stage of knowledge and trial, the relevant amendments are made to article 44 of the Criminal Code, which provides grounds for the release of a person from criminal responsibility, and to article 86 of the Code. The changes are also made to article 6 of the Ukrainian KPC, which sets out the circumstances that exclude the conduct of a criminal case. It is also proposed that the Ukrainian KPC be supplemented by a new article 6.1, which defines the order of release from the amnesty act. The bill received a favourable response from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The committee at its meeting decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept the bill as a basis. In our opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u217	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u218	Well, that's what I'm doing. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u219	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a need to discuss the bill, please sign up for the discussion. Please sit down, Vladimir Stepanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u221	Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Andrew School, microphone. Mikhail Chechtov will be next. We continue our morning session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u222	Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, I think we're a little tight with this Amnesty Act. Amnesty is needed, and, unfortunately, we have too much criminal legislation in Ukraine. And they're in places where they're deprived of their will, especially those who are in detention cells, very often the investigators use it as a way to intimidate someone. who is suspected of committing a crime, but his guilt is not proven, or will only be proved by a court of law. And in general, these places of deprivation are seriously overcrowded. And the conditions of detention don't fit in with what they're being punished for. Because people are being punished for being deprived of their will rather than being punished for being in areas where they develop a TB stick. I understand that, so people very often do not go there to be deprived of their will and are punished simply for their health and conditions. In general, I think that Parliament would have been fast enough here. This amnesty bill is very soft, I think probably the least, and it foresees a very small number of people who fall under it, fall under it, fall under this amnesty. However, in principle, of course, it would be better to simply review the system of legislation, which in most cases involves being deprived of the will. We have virtually no other method of punishment. So often we have to, almost every year, talk about amnesty, but we have to adopt laws. So I call for the bill to be voted on, despite the fact that, of course, it will not solve the problem, it will only help to humanise some of the processes in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u223	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u224	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The project provides for a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Amnesty Application in Ukraine. In doing so, it is proposed to prohibit the use of amnesty at the stage of knowledge, pretrial investigation, and when a criminal case is in the course of a court but not considered last. The bill also extends to convicted persons, to whom amnesty cannot be applied at all, primarily to convicted persons for committing a deliberate serious or particularly serious crime, who have been sentenced to less than two thirds of the basic penalty imposed by the court, and to persons who have committed crimes of any degree of gravity resulting in the death of two or more persons. There is also a change in the order in which convicts are released from further punishment. That is to say, a person may be exempt from additional punishment other than confiscation of property if, on the day of the acquisition of the Amnesty Law, the court’s sentence on the part of the additional penalty has not been executed. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u225	Thank you, too. Mikoli Shershun's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u226	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the bill removes the main contradiction, which is that by amnesty, a person can be released from punishment at the criminal stage. Here, indeed, a very strange situation arises when a person who has not even been convicted is released. The bill also foresees an expansion of the ranks of those who committed crimes to which amnesty cannot be applied. Of course, for particularly serious crimes, a person should be held accountable to society in full measure, otherwise, by feeling the State’s propensity for the execution of punishment, he may again take the wrong path and commit an even more serious crime. I believe that, in principle, the humanity of the social system in our country is not seriously affected by the establishment of a more severe trial of amnesty convicts, especially by the fact that Ukrainian legislation is considered to be one of the most humane in Europe. Because we need to raise citizens to respect the law, especially those who have violated it, as well as to understand responsibility for their own actions, so please, honourable colleagues, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Discussion. Yes, please, Adam Martinyuk of the Communists did not speak Vladimir Ivanovich, it was from your faction. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u228	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! On the one hand, without reading the draft law, we can vote for it and we should vote for it. But before you vote, please read, with your permission, I'll remind you of some of the rules of this law, and you'll think about whether it's worth supporting or not. Please tell me we're communists with both hands for that to happen, but it's not that amnesty can't be applied to persons whose death penalty has been replaced by pardon. We are for the death penalty, but unfortunately, we don't have as much punishment as the death penalty, why is it in this law? Or, please, amnesty does not apply to those convicted of torture, no question, and so on and so forth. For violating the traffic safety rules. That it is such a grave crime to violate the Road Traffic Rules, trouble can happen to anyone, with anyone, no, you can't apply amnesty and so on, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, we're looking at a reduced procedure, so you can't sum it up here, let's stick to the rules, please. And the factions of the faction could only be, the performances took place by anyone who insisted. The committee's proposal to adopt the bill as a basis for further preparation for second reading. I am voting on this proposal, namely the adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Amnesty Act in Ukraine. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 4179]] Vote. [[13:54:00]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you and I have resumed our morning session for 15 minutes. The draft Act amending certain legislations of Ukraine is now under review. [[against the commission of crimes against sexual freedom and the inviolability of minors]] [[Registration numbers 5228, 5228-1, 5228-2, 5228-3]] The rapporteur will be the first deputy head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of Sovkovic Vladimir Leonidovich and the co-reporters will be the national deputies of Ukraine Katerinczuk Mikola, Moskal Hennaday and Yuri Karmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u230	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I will be speaking as the author of the bill and as a representative of the committee for today. You all know the great social danger of all crimes against sexual freedom. Especially dangerous are these crimes when they're committed against young children, minors, and as we see now, when all these noises have been on the rise for three or four months. These are children there from two to seven years old. During the first half of 2009, only 382 criminal cases were brought before the courts. In general, there were about 5,000 criminal cases in Ukraine in 2008. According to UNESCO Director General Koitiro Matzouro, up to 10 percent of children in Ukraine, all children under 12 years of age, were subjected to sexual violence. It was one child in ten who was humiliated, injured, psychologically injured, physically, and otherwise. So that's basically what statistics are. But the fact is, these crimes are latent because none of the parents, none of the children, really want to talk about the events that have taken place in their families or with these children. So these numbers can be even larger. Unfortunately, our country -- you heard yesterday at a meeting of the United Nations -- entered five countries where pornography is the most developed, not viewing, not the Internet, and the production of children for this product.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u231	Please, we have very little time to make decisions. Finish very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u232	Just a little longer. In different parts of the world, for example, in the United States a chemical castration was introduced, in England, France, Germany last year was introduced in Poland and is now registered in Russia. The bill proposes the introduction of an addition to the Criminal Code of Ukraine by the norms imposed by the forced action to combat crimes against sexual freedom, which is a pharmaceutical chemical castration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u233	Thank you, Vladimir Leonidovich, please excuse us for two minutes of the Rules. Vladimir Leonidovich, this way we will not consider the issue at all today if you report for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u234	But I offered.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u235	Then we'll put in a castration for breaking the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u236	Please, the last sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u237	The committee's decision is to adopt the bill in the first reading and the other bills to make them their proposals in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u238	Thank you, Vladimir Leonidovich. Please, Mikola Dmitrovich Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u239	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the European Party of Ukraine. Our Bill 5228/1 is an alternative. We also suggest that we increase, increase, the responsibility for crimes against sexual freedom and the individual’s sexual integrity. We suggest that we change certain, for example, sanctions that apply, for example, from 8 years of age to 10 years, as well as the possibility of life imprisonment for such crimes. We believe that the proposal in the preceding chemical castration project may have resulted from a judicial error, yet life imprisonment offers the possibility of prosecutions and other issues related to the observance of human rights. I agree with the rapporteur that all our bills have been directed only to the possibility of halting such and preventive measures in relation to such crimes. Because, well, they really have a devastating effect on the child's psyche, and this influence remains in this person's life. So the proposal of the Scientific and Experimental Authority to support the first reading of Bill 5228/1, which I am introducing. And the hall, I think, will be determined with regard to support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u240	Thank you. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u241	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national MPs, honourable citizens of Ukraine, the distinction between the bill that I am introducing and the other bills is still being drawn up in a few moments. In addition to all that is offered to the arsenal, I propose that you also consider that it is necessary to counteract the spread of false information about the commission of such crimes, I mean crimes against sexual freedom and the sexual integrity of minors, including in the media and the knowingly false reports of the prosecutor, the investigator or the body of knowledge of the commission of such crimes. Because without that, absolutely, you can't even fight this phenomenon properly, and you know, you've reported in the media, and you're free of everything. Then let someone have a heart attack, then let some families fall apart, something else pointed to someone with their fingers. Similarly, criminal cases are being investigated. They're being investigated. Expenses are being made at the expense of the state. There's an appointment of expertise, everything, and then there's nothing, nobody's responsible. Therefore, I propose that, for the dissemination of such false information on the commission of the above-mentioned crimes, and for the well-known false report by the prosecutor, the investigator or body of knowledge of the commission of such crimes, which violates the honour, the dignity of a citizen who is declared to be the highest social values, and their protection is guaranteed by article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and these actions may lead to serious consequences, and corresponding to the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens should also be the responsibility established. I'd like you to see that I've written all the amendments in the text, and where I'm strengthening responsibility, and where this law is improving, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u242	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Two in favour, two in pros, please. Please, Luciana Catherine Eugeneva
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u243	My fellow Members, I believe that today it is not the Hall or the factions of Parliament, but the entire Parliament of Ukraine has to decide about those who commit sexual crimes against children. Or we're all fighting for happiness in the world, for the happiness of the child, and when it comes to combining crime, we'll be handing out candy bars to criminals. But we also have a principled attitude toward those who give false testimony about those, well, in their opinion who do not fit the reality. So I ask the Chamber to reject all its political ambitions and vote for any bill and then to make all the necessary amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u244	Please, Sovkovic Vladimir Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u245	I want to make it up to you. Catherinechuck said there might be a mistake. In order to avoid a castration error, we specifically imposed the term that castration takes place six months before a person gets out of prison. In view of the fact that time increases, the term goes from 8 to 15 years, I think in eight years a person can be excused. And so it turns out that there will be no mistake. If a person is not justified in eight years, he will not be justified later. Plus, they're mentally ill. If a mentally ill person runs away from the hospital and does the same thing again, he is caught and replanted. Well, I mean, there's this toast: "He who doesn't drink is Kirkorov." Now, who doesn't vote for chemical castration, he's a paedophile. I can't say anything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u246	Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u247	I think everyone is voting for all three bills because there are no pedophiles in our hall and there can't be. I think there are different approaches here. The question that is being raised today is how today increasing responsibility will have a preventive mental health care for those who are sick and who are committing such crimes. I think that if they do know that they're never going to be free, or that they're going to be imprisoned for life, it's more preventive even than, let's say, castration might or might not be. I'd like to make an offer. Let us adopt all the bills in the first reading, and on the second reading let us unite. And the question of castration or life imprisonment, we think, may come to some understanding in an interpersonal discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-10-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I want to remind you that we can only accept one project on the basis of which the rest won't even vote. But in preparing for the second reading, of course, you can take into account all the standards of all the projects and other proposals of all the national MPs. Please prepare for the vote. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to combat the commission of crimes against sexual freedom and the inviolability of minors is put to the vote. [[Registration number 5228]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:06:19]] For 205 The decision is not taken. The draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[Registration number 5228-1]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:06:48]] For 312 The bill was approved. Please prepare for the second reading, draw conclusions from those suggestions that came in the presentation of other draft laws. Dear colleagues, I declare this morning's plenary session closed.
