ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please, Your Honor, prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:37]] 390 cards registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of our colleague Demidek Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Let us welcome our colleague and wish us health. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the February 11, 2010, plenary meetings. Twenty-six issues of order have been discussed, and 12 laws and one decree have been adopted. Three bills and one draft decree were adopted as a basis. Eight bills have been rejected, as a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, one law has been passed after it has been revised. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Friday for the announcement of parliamentary requests. Allow me to announce the parliamentary requests that have come to the secretariat. Eugenia Kzarykova to the President of Ukraine on stopping the looting and destruction of the Black Sea Shipping Company. I'd like to vote in favour of the request, please. [[10:03:22]] For 169 Request supported. “For” -169. I now put to the vote the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:03:45]] For 208 Request not supported. When I ask everyone, let's go back, please mobilize then. Alexander Cnermoorova to the Head of the Supreme Council for information on the distribution of apartments in a residential building on the street of Srebnokilski, 24 in Kiev. Gennady Zadirka to the Prime Minister about the situation surrounding the Aquarius sports complex in the city of Mikolaev and the famous diving school. Edward Prutnik to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Housing and Utilities, First Deputy Minister of Finance, Deputy Head of the Chernigian Regional Administration, regarding the referral of the Deputy of the Czernigian District Council of Natali Kucharovska on the need for compensation of the benefits and subsidies from the State Budget of Ukraine, to the municipality of Nižin, “Single Customer Service” for the settlement of residential and utility services. Eugene Kzarow to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of looting and destruction of the Black Sea Shipping Company. Igora Jeresko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate response to parliamentary appeals and requests by the Ministry and the housing and utility authorities. Igor Sharov to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide information on the state of implementation of the State Programme for Cooperation with Foreign Ukrainians for 2010 and the use of funds for communication with foreign Ukrainians. Mikoli Shershun to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the creation of a State Department for Social Protection of Ukrainian Seafarers. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister on the uncontrolled rise in food prices and the activities of the State and executive authorities in the exercise of full control over pricing. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister for the payment of the under-received funds for the 2004-2007 recovery aid in accordance with the judgments of citizens, residents of the city of Bila Church, Kyiv region, pursuant to article 48 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Paul Mouchcan to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-destruction of the sports complex “Start” in Kiev. Vladimir Skoubenko is responsible for the Ukrainian finance minister’s responsibility to recalculate subsidies from the state budget for the Herson region’s district budget to pay off debts from different tariffs to thermal energy. Gregory Smythuch to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of the violation of Ukrainian legislation requirements for the alienation of stocks held in state ownership, agricultural machinery shareholders' associations in connection with the activities of the Open Shareholders' Association, the Leasing Company, UkraineInvestment, as well as the theft by the Society's officials with limited responsibility for the "Herson Machine Plant" budget. Igora Sharov to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the authenticity of information published on the Internet on intelligence from U.S. intelligence services to co-workers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Edouard Prutnik to the Minister of General Development and Construction of Ukraine, the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Head of State Architectural Inspection, the First Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Montenegrin District Council, the Deputy Head of the Chernigian District Administration on the verification of the facts presented in the collective complaint of the residents of the city of Prikrzy Chernigów Region and the appeal of the Deputy Regional Council of Anatoly Peacekeeper on the non-conformity of the construction and operation of the dry land complex on the streets of the Paris Commune, 56 of the Rural Society with limited responsibility of “Paternality” which leads to the pollution of air from the production of the land by means of the maintenance of the necessary legislation and the improvement of land-based disturbances in the process of the development of the land. Igor Kaletnik to the executive responsibility of the head of the Central Audit and Audit Authority of Ukraine for the use of urgent measures aimed at criminalizing the head of the South West Railways, Alexia Krivopishin for systematic abuse of the service, the theft of state funds, their purposeless use, the promotion of illegal alienation of state property, the granting of illegal advantages to business entities. Catherine Vaszczuk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, head of the State Committee of Ukraine for Land Resources, regarding the delay of officials to make an inheritance under the will of the inhabitants of Lutka Volinska District of Paul Artemczuk. Kseniya Llapina to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District Council, regarding the formal approach to a previous parliamentary appeal to the situation surrounding the apartment of Eugenia Barchuk. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on ineffective politics, which has led to a threat to recreational zones on Mount Uzun Sirt and other historical and natural monuments of Crimea. Alexander Shepeleva to the Ukrainian Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of taking precautions to prejudice the threat of flood in the western areas of Ukraine in the spring of 2010. Alexia Plotnikov to the Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets of Ukraine regarding the failure to respond to the parliamentary request to violate the terms of the agreement with the investors of Tetjana, Irina and Denis Rossohami, and the return of their deposits and interest on them. Jury Karmazin to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the procurator of the Odessa region for the examination of physical and psychological violence against Darya Babiyczuk, the failure of the mother of the parental responsibility for the upbringing and development of the child, and the use of measures to protect the rights of the child. Valentina Matvijeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of the resident of Chernigova Alexandri Kravchenko to housing and working with the management of the Open Shareholder Society “The Editorial and Publishing Complex“Desnian Truth”. Victoria Demyanczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of decisions taken by the Municipal Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea regarding the transfer to the property of the community. Valerija Beviz to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper investigation by officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Poltava area of the criminal case of intentional bankruptcy of the Waltex collective enterprise in Lubna Poltava district. Valery Behwaz to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Odessa District Council on illegal illegal actions by the authorities of the local self-government of the city of Bilgrad-Dnistrovsk Odessa, which led to a violation of the constitutional rights of the resident of Boris Dobrovolski. Victoria Demyanchuk to the Attorney General regarding the conduct of a review of the Society’s limited-liability “Capital Group” in Ukraine and the use of procuratorial response measures regarding the management of the Society. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for his unsatisfactory consideration of the MP’s appeal. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for giving a legal assessment to the public direction of the first deputy of the city’s head, Lviv Oleg Sinyutka, regarding the use by school teachers of forced schoolwork of students during the educational process and the application of physical coercion and bodily harm and beatings in the event of rejection of forced labour. Vladimir Stretovic to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the embodiment of the reserves of the villages of John and Slobydko Kalinów in the Winnitsky region. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the theft of land by the Kyiv Region’s Kyiv Village Council, which is the recreational zone and property of the Kiev territorial community, and on the involvement of officials involved in the independent transfer of the priceless Kyiv land into private hands. Grigory Smituha to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the appointment of a verification in connection with the situation surrounding the Open Shareholder Society, Kyivvodokal. Kirila Kulikov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to comply with the legal requirements of the Ukrainian National MP and for ignoring the parliamentary request. Mikoli Shershun to the Attorney General of Ukraine about his dissatisfaction with the reply of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine to a parliamentary appeal regarding the violation of a criminal case against the head of the farm, "Galic Dream" by Andrija Moravski. Petra Pisarczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-payment of salaries to the employees of the Central City Pharmacy No. 189 of the city of Lviv district. Peter Pisarczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the right of a veteran of war in the city of Lviv Oleg Zovkovsky. Peter Simonenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the prosecution's response to the illegal seizure of the land of the State Enterprise of Ukraine, the “International Children's Centre “Artek”, and on the attempt to bankrupt him. Peter Simonnck to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the administrative and criminal case of a violation against a citizen of Bogdan Denisenko. Sergei Moshak to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the raiding of the house on Volodymyrska Street, 19th in Kiev. Sergio Moshak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal liability of officials of the Percin district council of Zakarpat. Jury of Lithuania to the Attorney-General on the unlawful actions of officials of the Ulyanov District State Administration of the Kirovograd Region. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the constitutional rights of the first group of Lydia Gúzol and war invalid Michael Gúzola. [[Chapel, Kick, Color]] Vladimir Karpuk to the prosecutor of Kiev, head of the Kiev City State Administration to verify the legality of the actions of the officials of the Kyiv City Council in making decisions aimed at the destruction of the existing network of anti-tuberculosis establishments in Kiev, in particular the city’s tuberculosis dispenser Pechersky and Shevchenkovi Districts on the street of Perspective 6, the anti-tuberculosis dispensers No 2 and No 3 in the Holy and Solomonian districts of the capital. Vladimir Yavorowski to the head of the Kiev State Administration for the purpose of the Kiev City Administration to sell national buildings of historical and cultural importance, citing its cynical intentions to require funds for the Euro-2012. Alexander Shepeleva to the city’s Kiev head to solve the problem of overcrowding of the children’s preschool facilities in Kiev. Alexia Kostusev to the Odessa City Head on the reasonableness of spending 44 million dollars to fill the sands of the beaches of Odessa Alexia Kostusev to the Odessa City Head for failure to take action to improve the quality of water supply in Odessa Jury Karmazin to the prosecutor of Kiev, Kiev City Head, on the verification of the illegal destruction of the green zone in Kiev of the Society with limited liability “Parus”, a gross violation of the rights of the territorial community of Kiev, and the use of appropriate response measures. Eugene Kzarykova to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights for the Protection of the Rights of Seafarers – Ukrainian Citizens abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, 68 parliamentary inquiries have been made. If there is no objection, I will put to the vote a return to the request of national MP Eugene Kzarow. This is a request from Eugene Kzarow to the President of Ukraine to stop the looting and destruction of the Black Sea Shipping Company. I'm betting on the vote on the return to the request. Please vote. [[10:16:57]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 139, "Club of Timoshenko" – 11, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 12, communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 20, non-factional – 2. Dear National Deputies, you are given a consistent schedule of meetings, which is our work plan for February 12, 2010. A draft law on the approval of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the declaration of the territory of the city of Kalush and the village of Kropivnik and Sivka-Kaluska Kalu district of Ivano-Frankov region as a zone of extreme ecological situation is under review. On Wednesday, February 10th, according to article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine introduced a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine approving the decree of the President of Ukraine on the declaration of the territory of the city of Kallus and the village of Kropivnik and Siuka-Kaluska of the Kalu region of Johno-Frankow region as a zone of an extraordinary ecological situation. According to the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Zone of Exceptional Environmental Situation, such a decree is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine within two days of the address of the President of Ukraine. And according to article 189 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, this issue does not need to be included in the agenda. The reporter is the city’s head, Igor Stepanovich Nasalik. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u2	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, is invited to your consideration to consider the Ukrainian Law on the Approval of the President's Order – the declaration of the territory of the city of Kalucha, as well as the village of Kropivnik and Siuka-Kaluska District of Ivano-Frankiv region as a zone of emergency. This Presidential decree is caused by three problems in the city of Kaluchi, which are of a national nature. And the first is the Dombrovo career, which was the only career in Europe where salt was produced in an open way. Today, the career is filled with more than 10 million tons of salt, whose concentration is 360 times higher than what is acceptable. In connection with the flood that took place in 2008, the Sivka River, through its karst formation, is becoming a career. During the spring flood there is a probability, an extremely high probability, a sifting of the Sifka in the Dombrovsky career, and a filling of it. It's dangerous that all of these tens of millions of tons of salt through the water horizons and the river Limnitz fall into the river Dniester. Besides, the floor. The production of mines gives rise to failure. The fact that the flood of 2008 was a catalyst for these events proved to be that in the last year in the city of Kalucha, a raven was formed in size with a football field and a depth of more than 20 feet [25 m]. According to estimates by the Ministry of Emergency Situations in the coming year, there is a probability that about 100 of them will be formed. There are more than 5,000 citizens of towns, towns and villages of Kropivnik and Sivka-Kaluska. In addition, the second problem is the number two moat, where there are more than 10 and a half million tons of chemical waste. Today, 100,000 tons in the cemetery exceeds the acceptable standards set by the Ministry of Emergency Situations. What the dam breaks through is a matter of time. And during the wedding flood, it will happen, and it will be a matter of time before it happens. At the time of the dam’s breakout, about 6 chemical companies and a residential array of our city will be destroyed. And over 10 and a half million tons of chemical waste across the river Livnica will fall into the river Dniester. According to previous data conducted by the Ministry of Emergency Situations, practically all of the Dniester River will be impossible for watersheds. The disposal of toxic wastes in the city of Kallus is also an extremely important problem. This is almost 50 percent of all toxic wastes classified under number 1 that are buried in Ukraine. The last wells showed that toxic wastes are already outside the burial site. The oncological disease rate alone in the city is higher than the global statistics in the area. When I talk to you, I have to say that we have a lot of environmental problems: both in Dniprojnski and in Yellow Waters. But what's calculated on the scale that Kallus can give is the biggest problem in Ukraine. A few days ago, the President of Ukraine, members of the Council of National Security and Defence, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, took a field meeting in Kaluchi. After learning about objects and documentation, everyone decided without exception to immediately give the town of Kallus and the village of Sivka-Vinillivna Pond a zone of extreme environmental disaster. According to estimates made by the Ministry of Emergency Situations, one bracelet is invested in the prevention of an environmental disaster, an economy of 100 bracelets in the prevention of the consequences of a disaster, but these environmental effects can be simply irreversible. I'm not only addressing you as a city head, I'm addressing you as your colleague after the third, fourth call, I'm just asking you as a citizen of Ukraine to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, if there are any questions, please sign up for the reporter. Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u4	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Sir, we understand the situation in Kaluchi, but it is also related to the floods that occur there. The situation was that in the Euroregion of Upper Prud, in 2008, when there was a large flood, the issue of flood warning was discussed. There the European Union, the European Commission, had foreseen some funding and had already discussed it at the level of the Montenegrin region. The question is: Why has this project stalled and not considered to date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u5	I have to tell you that we haven't sat down, folding our hands, and I have to say that by now, the world bank has already allocated us about $10 million to build watersheds. In addition, both the President of Ukraine and we turned to European financial structures to help solve this problem. Previously, we have an agreement with the Swedish side on a suitable grant. But this grant is unknown when it comes. But I am confident that European financial structures will also help to eliminate these consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u6	Please, People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u7	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine! ” Well, first of all, Mr. Igor Stepanovich, I thank you that today you have done and done the work that we did about four or five years ago. And yet today it's such an important issue for our region, for our country, for Calusus, it's brought to the highest level of state, right here in the Supreme Council. And, thank God, there is an appropriate decree. And I am confident that today the decision of the Supreme Council to declare Calchus a zone of extreme environmental disaster will be taken. But I would still like to ask you a more specific question. All the money we're talking about here is, let's say, fire extinguishing. Is it designed by you, or do you work with relevant scientific institutions on one subject: What is next? Well, we're gonna move people out, and we're gonna do this extraordinary flood control thing right now. What else can you do? Is science working in that direction as far as the development of Calchus is concerned as a populous point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u8	First of all, there was an order by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, directly to Ulysses Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, to reorganize the DP "Caliene Plant" into a separate structure and to bring through the process of rehabilitation into a separate state structure. This would be the first step, for example, before this program is implemented. And I also have to say, both the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Industrial Policy are developing a number of measures to address this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u9	Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Karpuk Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u11	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Igor Stepanovich, it is known that for a long time, the business in Kalucha was run by Lukoil and its subsidiaries. That is, certain people were enriched. What did they spend on environmental problems? And in general, now there's $571 million for the recovery of the environmental situation in Kaluchu. And over the last 10 years, you said there that 10 million recently have only been released, and in the last 10 years, what are the costs invested in saving the situation in Calous and the surrounding villages? This is a problem, one can say, not only in Ukraine, but also in general in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u12	I must say that the National Security and Defence Council has instructed the Attorney General's Office to consider alienating the relevant objects from the Open Association of VAT “Orian”. With regard to the solution of environmental problems, they were largely explored, but there were no real steps in implementing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u13	Bylorus Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Mayor! I remember in the late 1980s, when this flag of the Ukrainian industry was designed and built, everyone sang hallelujah. I have a question about whether projects have predicted the dangers of environmental disasters that have become a reality today. And the second. I am the author of a new name for that chlorvinil, which was called “Oriana”, which is an old name for Ukraine. But this “Oriana ” fell into the hands of greedy owners of non - Ukrainian descent. Have any attempts been made to make contingency, insurance funds to eliminate the inevitable environmental disasters? And do you have plans to present your claims to the new owner of "Oriana" about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u15	First, I would like to say that the direct potassium plant belongs to Orion and belongs to the state through the State Property Fund, which owns 99.9 percent of the company. So he doesn't have any owners today. As far as Luhorcarpatnaftohima’s work is concerned, they have invested $185 million today in restocking the technical production of chemical enterprises. However, it must be said that no funds have been invested in the city’s environmental problems by the so - called partners.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u16	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u17	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I would like to say, since the budget committee has not considered this issue, that I would like the city’s head, Igor Stepanovich, to tell you how much is needed, how much is planned in the State budget to solve the urgent problems with the technology situation in your city. Because I understand that a few years ago there were literally 5 or 10 million people spending on it, and now, for my information, 500 million you're asking for these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u18	5-10 million of these objects were spent on research, not in the form of their elimination. 10 million dollars of research conducted by the Ministry of Emergency Situations and the Ministry of the Environment of our State. 560 million are the accounts that the National Security and Defence Council has conducted, according to the Housing Code and the legislative acts that are in our country. But this is a preliminary calculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u19	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u20	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I would like to draw your attention first of all to the fact that, in principle, in order to ensure order and to eliminate further negative developments in the region, I would like to hear first of all which of the weapons that have deployed public funds to combat the consequences of the flood that have been brought to justice. After all, everyone in Ukraine knows this national disgrace, that the allocated public money in the region is being dispersed, that is what everyone, including me from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, has said. And secondly, who in 18 years will be responsible for what happened specifically in Kalucha? Who will be responsible for creating this assumption by using various techniques for personal pocketing? Now, through the government pocket, you want to alleviate or solve this problem, but first, you need to bring to justice those who have committed this evil, and especially when they are exposed to the consequences of these natural disasters and cover up their crimes. Please answer who was responsible for the crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u21	As for the flood that took place in the Western areas of Ukraine, Kallus is the only city, I want to say, in Western Ukraine, that has put up funds to do flood work. It's the only city in Western Ukraine that's checked by the Ukrainian audit authority and had no comments, no comments. It should be said that a number of criminal cases have been opened in other parts of Western Ukraine at the cost of flooding. As for the directly potassium plant, it is, I want to tell them again, it was, is, and belongs to the state through the State Property Fund that owns it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u22	There's no government, there's no bankruptcy. There are no executives there, it's bankrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u23	Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u24	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u25	Lila Grigorović, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Igor Stepanovich! In the context of previous speeches, man’s technological activities on the planet should work sooner or later, because I don’t know who will answer for turning the “rivers back” and draining the territories and so on. We have a specific situation. Who was in Kaluchi, who was from Galicina, understands very well that this is a particular situation today, and we are specific policies that need to be solved. And that's why I'm calling on everyone, and especially the brothers from the BUT faction, because Galicina and the city of Kalush have put up a lot of votes to support democracy, to support this glorious city and solve their problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u26	I'd like to answer that question. But a little differently, when the flood occurred in Western Ukraine, the first to come to the aid of the city of Kallus was the Carpathian Football Club and, surprisingly, the Harkow City Council headed by the Harkow City Head, who had allocated 250,000 bracelets from the budget of Kharkiv. And I'm very grateful to them that I have the ability to thank them right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u27	Please sit down, Igor Stepanovich. Question time is over. The report is Seminoga Anatoly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u28	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! For your consideration, it is proposed to draft the Ukrainian Law approving the Presidential Decree declaring the territory of the city of Kalush and the village of Kropivnik, Sivka-Kaluska Kalu district of Ivano-Frankov district an ecological emergency. As a result of the wrong decisions made at the time regarding the location and operation of the cesspools, the landfills, the accumulation of the assets and the disposal of the mines resulting from the commercial activities of chemical enterprises in the Kalusian region of Johno-Frankiv region, the ecological balance of the thicker Kallus-Wollin mountain range of potassium salts has been disrupted. This has caused numerous failures of the earth's surface over the minefields in Kallus, the destruction of buildings and communications, the salinization of aquifers in this town's villages of Kropivnik, Siuka Kalu district of Ivano-Frankiv district. I would like to draw your attention, my fellow Members, to the fact that the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster has, over the past two years, addressed this issue and, in making decisions, also drew the attention of the President of our State, the Council of National Security and Defence and the request to intervene in this situation at the right time. Regrettably, the existing situation was not properly understood by the relevant national structures. If 5 million dollars were required to carry out the necessary environmental protection measures in 2008, more than 560 million dollars were needed in the potassium plant area and in the social security of the enterprise, in line with the President’s proposed decree to approve the implementation of measures related to the declaration of an area of environmental emergency, more than 560 million dollars of the state budget are needed. At the 18th hour of 11.02 2010, the findings of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, on budget issues, on European integration issues, on regulations, on parliamentary ethics and on ensuring the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not reach the committee. It should be noted that members of the Committee on Environmental Policy have expressed another view that it would be necessary to develop a state-wide programme and approve it by the decision of the Supreme Council session in order for this state programme to actually work and result in a solution to the issue that is now in the city of Kallus. The Ministry of Emergency Situations does not comment on the proposed bill. The Ministry of Environmental Protection notes that in the decree of the President of Ukraine of 10.02 B.C.E. Number 145 is missing and there are no specific limits to the territory that are declared an ecological emergency. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council does not see legal obstacles to the approval of the bill. So the committee's offering. Based on the fact that the decree was adopted during the electoral campaign and that there is no programme for the implementation of the exit from the ecologically safe zone today, there is no action plan designed to use the necessary funds, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading. For the second reading, work with the Cabinet of Ministers on the program and approve the program along with the draft in the second reading. Thank you for your attention and please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u29	Please sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. Karpuk Vladimir Georgievovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u30	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Honorable Anatolia Ivanovich, Ukraine with Chernobyl, with Kalusz, with Stebnik, with Dniprodijnski, and so on becomes, indeed, with stockpiles of rocket tolls, melancholy, and poison chemicals, it becomes, indeed, a danger to the lives and health of people. You're suggesting, I'm going to say right now that, well, first of all, you didn't say what you said about the committee's decision, in the materials that we're given sound completely wrong. And it sounds like you're going to take the whole thing as a law. The committee's decision was you said other things -- that's one question. And the second. Of course, it must be a statewide program to eliminate dangerous ecological zones. But do you not agree that there should be a warning program for all these situations? Because running a business, handing over a private business to a non-U.S. capital and using our raw materials often poses a danger.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u31	Thank you for asking. First of all, the committee's decision. The committee was really going to yesterday and trying to make a decision. But since no documents were presented, no conclusions from ministries, no conclusions from other institutions, no conclusions were presented from other committees that should take an active part. This morning the committee met again and decided to support the bill in its first reading. Get to the second reading, first of all, a program of action. Why does 560 million stand out, not 570? What steps must be taken to implement this program? Once again, I want to remind you that the decree has been adopted very quickly and that it is not clear, at least today, how this program will be implemented. So the committee's decision is just like that. As a matter of fact, your point. I support your opinion on the point that today we need to adopt a state-wide programme that will be approved first and foremost by the Supreme Council and developed by the Cabinet of Ministers to which funds will be allocated for areas like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u32	Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u33	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to Andrey Parubia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u34	Paribay Andrey, “For Ukraine! ” Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Ukrainians! It's become a very strange tradition when we're here in this room making decisions about ordinary people based on political motives. Unfortunately, even today, instead of analyzing the depth of the problem and the tragedy in Kalucha, the representatives of the BUT faction begin to analyze when and under what conditions this decree was issued, either before or after or after the second round of elections. I think it's a very unconstructive approach that actually discredits the Supreme Council in the eyes of people, and that's why such a huge mistrust is to the main political forces. So I urge you to move away from political assessments, to understand what the tragedy of people is in place, and to adopt this bill as a whole, because it does not provide for the adoption of the decree of first and second reading, to move away from politics and to think about the common people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u35	Dear colleague, I would ask you not to defile my fellow national MPs at the very least. The Committee on Environmental Policy, which has been represented by all political forces, has been working for several years and working very professionally, and we have never made any decisions based on political relevance. All decisions are made professionally, according to the responsibilities on our committee today. And that's a decision we make professionally. We believe that the problem of Calchus needs to be solved, decided, not just gossiped. And we've had the President's attention for five years on this issue. There was no action in this regard. Today it's the right decision, but at the very least, this decision requires a state programme to implement those measures that will allow the city of Kaluch to make an ecologically safe zone. There are no other options, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u36	Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u37	I have a question for a distinguished reporter. Please tell us, by approving the zone of extreme environmental conditions, why did the President’s Secretariat, as the initiator of this bill, not bring the matter to an end, that is to say, did it not complete the cartographic material? Because it doesn't make sense to declare the zone unknowable that half of Ivanov-Francisco is going to be a zone or just one or two populaces? It's just stupid, so to speak. And there's one more thing I want to say. There are calls from the NUNS faction for the BET to vote. But we made a decision, don't call us, you've already called. I want to tell the voters that if this law is not adopted, it is on account of those walkers from the “NUNS that are not here today, and they are urging other factions to vote. Look at you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. I want to confirm once again that, in fact, the ecological disaster zone is not defined, there are no limits to this area, not mapped out. The other one. There is absolutely no plan for action, no material is presented. There's no way to use the 560 million at least. To what will they be spent, to whom will they be spent, to where will they go, to what arrangements do we finance? Again, it's an undeveloped program. For what period it is calculated: for a month, for two, for a year, for three, for five. Once again, there is no guarantee that the 560 million will be used in this fiscal year, will be able to conquer them. So again, it's a purely populist decree that doesn't carry any real load.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u39	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the time taken to question has come to an end. Before we get to the discussion, I want to remind you of certain formal legal things that are very important. In particular, the Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to approve a decree or not to approve within two days. [[Article 85, part one, paragraph 31]] And according to this article of the 189th Rules, the procedure for consideration goes as for drafts in the first reading, but decisions are only approved in general so that there is no other opinion. Such a decision was finally adopted by the Committee, and according to the Constitution, as indicated in its decision given to you today in the package of documents. Please sign up for the discussion. Please, Kostenko Yuri Ivanovich. Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u40	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't understand the manners I feel in this room. The point is that our task is to consider within two days the President's decree to either approve him or not approve him. And the President's decree already has a whole series of measures to be implemented. And there's an order for the Cabinet of Ministers to act on. So today, from my point of view, you don't have to demand from, I don't even know from who, which system of things, and so on and so forth. We must carry out our task: to approve the decree of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, in accordance with the decree, develops systems, local authorities, local authorities act in the same way. I want to say that an effective solution is what was made on time. And you have to understand that spring is not waiting, it will not wait for us until we prepare something, snowy spring. And if floods go down, we may have a great deal of trouble. Who forgot the Stebnik today, how many potassium salts were then poured into Dniester, how many fish were then killed, and what was the situation in general? Who forgot if you remember the Chicken in 61st year, too? So I want us not to play today, but to make a responsible decision. There's this proposal, as you can see, even a draft decree that needs to be developed in a whole system of action across Ukraine. Yes, today is a very bad environmental situation in general for, all over Ukraine, but let's do specific things. If we do not do specific things, we will do nothing to remedy the environmental situation. This is exactly the case where we have to start and act on a point, but the goal is that this problem has to be solved, we have to control this decree. We will have to control the activities of local authorities so that the problem will be resolved. Because this problem is very complex, and we don't forget that there are dangerous wastes, and we don't forget that there are people in the submerged zone, in the area of the possible operation of these cemeteries and many other things. So I urge the national MPs today to move away from their political preferences. I want us to finally understand that environmental safety issues come first in Ukraine, whether it's water, whether it's forest, whether it's industrial waste, or household waste. So my proposal is to approve the President’s decree, and let the Cabinet of Ministers take action and remember that the spring is near when floods may begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u41	Chago Eugene Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u42	Eugene Chago, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! We are considering today a project to approve the President's decree to announce in the territory of Kalusz and the village of Kropivnik and Siuka-Kaluszka Kalu district of Ivano-Frankov region a zone of extreme ecological situation presented yesterday by the President of Ukraine. For one thing, the haste with which the document was prepared is surprising. Serious things require a serious approach to solving them. In this case, even the lack of cartographic material — that is, the limits of the extreme ecological situation — are virtual. I agree with the fact that the situation in the area is really, really difficult. And at the same time, we can talk about other similar areas, and we can find ourselves in a very critical state. Today, there are many other areas in various regions of Ukraine that are affected by imbalances in economic activity, which threaten the environment, life, and health. The situation in Kallus and the Kalu district of Johno-Frankiv region is not an exception. Similar problems that may lead to extraordinary situations exist in the Dnipropetrovsk region – the cities of Dniprožinsk, Pavlovgrad, Yellow Waters, Kirovogradski, Solovitny Zakarpatské region, Lvivska – the town of Stepnik, Drogobic, Borislav and other areas. It's a global problem. That's why the solution has to be global. I have come up with a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the development of a state-wide programme to eliminate negative environmental and technological conditions in Ukraine. It's handing out to the MPs at 6062 today. The aim of the decision is to develop a state-wide programme to eliminate negative environmental and technological conditions in Ukraine and create conditions for eliminating the threat of environmental emergencies. The program should be designed, first, to work on identifying all areas where there is a threat of an emergency in relation to an unsatisfying ecological and technological state, and then to divide them into categories of complexity. The second is a list of measures to eliminate the threat of environmental emergencies. The third is a list of measures to reduce and phase out negative environmental and technological situations. Four. The creation of an early detection system for extreme environmental and technological situations. Parliamentary control will be carried out on the implementation of the national programme. Appropriately, the financing of robots from the elimination of negative environmental and technological situations will take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u43	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u44	With priority and complexity in mind, not the decision that is made constantly after a work trip by a high - ranking worker. I propose to support the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the development of a state-wide programme to eliminate negative environmental and environmental problems. matters in the territory of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u45	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! The President of the country, Viktor Yanukovic and the Party of the Regions, have never divided Ukraine on the left and right sides. It was only Julia Vladimirovna who thought instead of solving the environmental and technological problems in Donbass to surround Donbass with a barbed wire. Think about it: Instead of solving the problems in Donbass, ten million people will be surrounded by a barbed wire. Only Timoshenko could figure it out. We must understand that Ukraine is alone, one for all of us, and we must live in it together. No matter who walks in a shirt or tie, no matter what one speaks in Russian and the other speaks in Ukrainian, we are one big Ukrainian family. And if the grief has touched any home, if the grief has touched a region, we must help, regardless, in Western Ukraine, in Crimea or Donbassa. This will be a normal family, so it will be, and then people will understand us and us as power. A party of regions will vote in favour of the law, but shame and shame on the current Government, which, for two years, did not strike a finger against the finger, but only dealt with the political chat and shivering task of solving the most complex problems of the environment in the Donbass region. It didn't do anything, yeah! Only one thought is to surround Donbass with a barbed wire. I think this Government has days left if not hours. A new team of professional managers will come along with President Yanuković, the new Government, most in Parliament will seriously address and address the negative effects of environmental and technological situations in Ukraine. Indeed, it will be necessary, together with the Government, to develop such a state-wide programme to eliminate negative environmental and technological situations in Ukraine. That is how it will be, and we will solve these problems comprehensively throughout the country. But today, the Party of Regions and President Janukovic proposes to frame Kallusu's shoulder and to provide an opportunity to save the situation there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u47	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u48	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Alexandre Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, a few months ago from this rostrum after the technological disaster in the Xiano-Shushin GES, I spoke and said that there was not only a state programme in Ukraine, but there was no state policy to warn about technological catastrophes. Moreover, there is no institution for predicting possible technological catastrophes, while the pressure of technology in Ukrainian territory is enormous. And I agree with the previous speakers who called it, unfortunately, I have to say this, the hot spots of the technological situation in Ukraine. This is undeniable. The second point, so as I go back to this, I want to say that I have to say in time, in time, and that's the state's wisdom to predict, to warn about technological catastrophes. One second. You know, the cheap one, the greedy one pays twice. Yes, the amount proposed today is 560, in fact, 561 million dollars is a large amount. But I would like the experts, I think the Ministry of Emergency Situations here has to answer that question, to figure out how much it will take to make this situation worse if this situation explodes. So that's what we have to put together. The third point that we have to take into account is that the question isn't just in Calusia and the question isn't just in the villages around Calus. The question is that one of the key arteries -- and not only Ukraine, the water arteries -- the Dniester can become a different coin of this situation, roughly speaking, a different coin, in fact, it can be completely polluted. In this regard, I think we should make the right decision. But I agree that once we make this decision, all of these 560 million are going to have to be written down as a copy, because that money is going to have to go to people. Not for the conversion of bureaucrats, people! – 560 million clearly, under the strict control of the relevant parliamentary committee, under the strict control of all Ukrainian national deputies. And once again, I want to go back to what I started. If we just react to those positions, those threats, we'll be firing cannons at the sparrows. There has to be a state policy, and here everyone has to unite in this, ensuring a normal environmental, technological situation in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u49	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! The Company's faction will vote in favour of the proposed decision. But I believe that this fact, like many others, gives us reason to talk seriously today about what is going on in Ukraine? We are talking to you about the need for funding, but where will these funds be made available, they are not. Because industry doesn't work. Once again, funds will be seized for specific political speculation only in view of the fact that the categories of socially vulnerable citizens will be eliminated. Why am I talking about this? Because no action has been taken for several years regarding Pavlovrad. And you know that it is in critical condition that the same engines and, of course, rocket fuels are stored there today. Who doesn't know? They know everything. The nationalists, headed by this section of work, have blocked and allocated no funds to protect Ukraine from the disaster. And the area around Pavlovgrad is 100 kilometers more than Chernobyl. Who today, respected colleagues, and you are business owners, do you not know that we have a metallurgical complex of almost 70-80 per cent of the core funds worn out? Who doesn't know that there's up to 80 percent of the machinery in the building? The agro-industry complex is 90 per cent supported by core funds. We're not going to see the tractor brigade in the village today. Can you show me one of the people's deputies here where there's a tractor brigade in the village? Show me the farm in the village! Today we have the head of a big cattle lower than in 1934, after the famine of a terrible 32-33! That's what we need to talk about today. And this criminal policy that you nationalist gentlemen have imposed on Ukraine since the year 90. You've put her down in the halloween politics, and here we go. It was in your democracy that you didn't worry about how this mine was used. And why did those tails come out? You've used it poorly, you've made money, and today you're singing songs that you're advocates. You are the destroyers of the state, you are the murderers of your people! I would therefore like to stress once again that the Company's faction will vote, but it is your policy that has led to the floods already being a disaster for us. We're just snowing, and you're always talking over there, over there, we've got regular breaks. Millions of dollars of money have been spent and thrown away while the poor were being punished, and you did not give them the money that the State gave them. Therefore, my distinguished colleagues, I believe that the time has come to seriously reconsider the overall economic policy in the State and to seriously review it in the context of State responsibility, including the Supreme Radizh, as well as what is happening in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. Let's move on to the performances of the National Deputies. Roman Tjak, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." Get ready, Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” You know, I do want to emphasize a few points. First of all, it's not about saving Kallus in connection with spring floods, but that's not what this is about. I'm a very short story. In 1968, when the potassium plant was built at the time, there was such a technology that wastes were thrown into a canteen during the treatment of potassium ore and then used for two. One part went with a new treatment and was made with potassium fertilizer, and some of these wastes went into mines that were flooded and were in the same balance. Because at the beginning, in the late 1990s, potassium production, the production of potassium fertilizers, actually all the waste is being dumped in the canteen, and you heard this terrible figure -- 10 million cubes are being collected today in the canteens. So it's good that this initiative was shown by the city's head, well, it's good that the President's decree was issued, but I'd like to say more about the following. This is the President's decree, and what decision we're going to make today, in principle, does not solve this problem to the end, this money will be directed at eliminating the consequences. But the situation is that the potassium plant, which is in Kaluchi, is the only potassium production in Ukraine. Today we use potassium fertilizers that come from Russia and Belarus. And that's why today's issue number one is to start production of potassium fertilizers. So it happened that during the privatisation of “Orians”, the magnetic plant and the potassium plant did not enter the future “Lukor”. Today, the potassium plant is made up of “Orians”, it's part of “Orians” on the rights of a child's enterprise. And in previous years, the question now is, based on this subsidiary, to create a state-owned enterprise and put it on the list of privatization sites. Today, the production of potassium fertilizer is of interest to investors from Russia, China, Germany, but the whole question is that today you can't get it out of Orion. And so knowing that, on the basis of this decree of the President and the relevant decision of the Supreme Council in the future, there will be a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers to execute this decree, and therefore I would therefore like to write down two orders. The first assignment. To have the Cabinet of Ministers resolve the issue of the Orian sanctions or eliminate them, or to be financially healed. And the second question. We're going to build a state-owned potassium plant based on a child's enterprise, and we're going to continue to involve investors to make this production work. Because no matter how much money we invest, if the potassium plant doesn't work, there won't be any potassium fertilizer production again in a year, in two, in three. So I ask you all, in the end, to put an end to politics, where, in fact, there are about 100,000 people who need the help of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u53	Jaroslav Jojik, faction. Ruslan Knazevich, please. Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I'd like to push away from what Roman Volodymyrovich said, absolutely wise things. In my memory, this is the third question. The third case we need to confirm is the same as the President's decree. For the first time, remember, something similar was happening during avian flu in Crimea and the second time in 2008, when a totally brutal and unpredictably unpredictable flood came to Western Ukraine in 2008. But something like this happened, and then we were left without politics. Then we thought about people, then we had total understanding, consolidation of the complexity of the situation, and even in the face of vacations, we were able to find the courage to come here and make a positive decision by consensus. I don't understand what we're talking about today. It's not worth talking about politics at all, even though I don't want to push away from what political, let's say, the slope that adds to the speech of the committee's head is completely incomprehensible to me. The Supreme Council Committee cannot push the Supreme Council into unconstitutional action. The Committee of the Supreme Council may decide to support the President's decree as a whole within the time frame provided for in the Constitution and may decide not to support the constitutional provisions as a whole. But the Supreme Council and the Committee, as a unit of the Supreme Council, cannot afford to violate the Constitution and adopt the first reading and beyond the time provided for in the second reading, which in fact means that it is well known to make this decree unconstitutional and unconstitutional. In view of these circumstances, let us speak more essentially than politics. Is it about who's going to spend this money? Clearly, we need to face the truth. But the President's decree, which no one has read to the end, clearly describes who is responsible for the issuance of funds and the control over their intended use, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine to execute this decree, which is referred to in the decree, is required to write the corresponding program and, at locations, precisely in the manner provided for in the internal decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Treasury will issue it in the event that they are only for the purposes provided for by this decree. We know that we have a situation where even the treasury does not allocate funds. So we think that, if it's predicted, they're going to spend money on unforeseeable things. Well, of course it's absurd that you don't want to talk about. But I have a question for the city, if you don't mind. Igor Stepanovich, will it take 90 days for this issue to happen now, so that all costs cannot be used and the problem cannot be solved? Can you not see that you can immediately talk about the possibility of continuing this period, if not, in what way the Supreme Council can join in so that such funds can really be allocated in such a short period of time and effectively used so that the funds used, the problem is not solved, and three months from now the flood begins, and we return to the solution? Because I think it's the most important aspect. And the last. We're talking a lot about floods to make you understand, this year on the anti.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u55	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u56	floods in the Ivano-Frankiv region have decided to reduce the use of funds 60 times. Someone has already decided that this problem has been permanently removed. If we continue to approach these things in this way, we will be there every year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u57	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Viacheslav Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u58	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, no doubt needs to support the President's decree on the elimination of the environmental disaster that may be in Kalucha. And at the same time, I want to deny those people, those MPs who said there was no financial basis for this program. There's a clear description, and even of those 560s or 61 million dollars that are going to eliminate this technological catastrophe that's in Calousia, 344 million, that is, the lion's share, is going to voluntarily move people out of this area. And the things that we talked about: both conservation and hydroisolation, and the warning of the leaks, and the catastrophe that could be in the flood, there's a specific amount of money that might not be enough. But the problem is another: Ukraine has long been a region where mankind is watching, and the consequences of unwarranted economic policy can result. Because often the privatization of enterprises -- and a vivid example is Kallus -- was devoted to Lukoil and Orion's children's firms, Lukojnaftochim, which have been using these deposits for decades and have not allocated funds to ensure environmental safety. And this privatization that's going on, there's a lot of examples that we can give, we can analyze how much there is a state or a State Property Fund there is a problem with these firms, the holding companies and others that often belong to the non-Ukrainian capital, how much money is allocated to environmental and technological security. Indeed, each enterprise takes – the core funds, the permissibility of the core funds – 70-80-90 percent. Yes, every enterprise, if carefully analyzed, poses a technological danger. How many in each area are toxic chemicals, mineral fertilizers. And that's why I really support the idea that we need to make a national, complex national program, but not the elimination of environmental and technological ones. and primarily the warning and elimination of technological catastrophes and environmental disasters in Ukraine. Therefore, please support and approve the decree of the President of Ukraine without politicization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u59	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Zinovo Skutjak, group “For Ukraine! ” The problem is already being heard, and most people know. I would like to remind you that there are three major problems in this problem. The first is a cemetery where there are ten million meters of Cuban highly toxic salts, solutions, saturated salts, and this is a cemetery, as has been said, since the 68th year, it's been growing in height. And today, without having enough technical services, it's been a couple of times, it's been so subtle when it, it can give a crack, and all these salts -- extremely toxic, millions of tons can go in, end-of-the-end, Dniester. And it was rightly said here that this would be an international, international European technological catastrophe in that case. Because what happened 25 years ago in Stebnik, it wasn't even ten percent of the amount of solutions that went into Dniester and they brought in many years that destroyed the Dniester's environmental system. The second question is careers that are left behind, open careers that are left without service today are filled with water. This water dissolves these salts and fills aquifers with saturated, water - saturated salts and further destroys drinking water throughout the region. So it's very dangerous. And finally, these are the gaps that are left of the mines, from the mines, which, by the way, from the 19th century, potassium fertilizer is mined in the Kalucha area and there are many mines left. And now no one's handling them, and there's already a few cases where these gaps are failing, and they're next to the homes of people where people live, and they can be very large catastrophes. It should therefore be said that the Ukrainian National Security Council, after considering this issue, has made the only right decision today to prevent a disaster. And the next step, I think the new government is going to be the question of re-establishing the potassium industry in Ukraine. Because Ukraine's agriculture can't do without potassium, just as it can without phosphorus, without nitrogen. And today it's completely unwise to import potassium for our agriculture when we have our own ancestry. I think we need to support this first step taken by the President's decree and think about making programs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u61	People's deputy Kamchatny is handing over the right to speak to Oleg Laszko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the venerable inhabitants of the city of Kalucha! Our faction of the "Julia Timoshenko Block" will definitely support this law, because the problems reported by the mayor of the city from this rostrum, we know about them. And over the past time, as the mayor of the city reported, the government has allocated money for research to solve the problems in the city. This is my answer to the question of a speaker who always comes out here and when you look at him as he talks, there's always fear that his heart attack won't take or anything else: so he's the poor one hurting for the interests of the country and the citizens, accusing Timoshenko's government of inaction. So instead of criticizing the government of Timoshenko, I would like to tell you what the government of Yanukovich was doing to solve the problems of the city of Kalucha. And as Communist faction leader Simonenko put it right, we have these kinds of technology and ecologically dangerous dozens all over the country. What, then, did the government of Yanukovich do to solve these problems? And in Pavlovgrad, where nuclear waste is, and in Montenegro, where stockpiles of stockpiles are thousands of years in advance, and in Kharkishte, etc. So let's not do politics on people's mountains, let's do the immediate problems that are both in Kalucha and in other technology-hazardous areas, so we're going to vote in favour of this bill, and we think that the Supreme Council should actually go into this issue in a comprehensive way so that we don't take one of Calususian problems and take a systematic look at all of the technological problems that are in the country and adopt a separate law that deals with all of these issues about the country's technological problems. And once again, I emphasize, and I say, let's not do politics where we don't have to do it. The people were tired of politics, the people were fed up, and the lies were heard every day in and behind the Supreme Council Hall. Let's lie less, let's do less politics, it's about lying, I'm talking to representatives who all the elections have blocked the work of the Supreme Council for six months telling how they care about raising the standard of living of people. And literally two days after the election, they refused to vote in favour of a law that provides assistance to low - living families. These wolves drop sheep’s hides. Let the citizens of the country draw conclusions, and they no longer buy on these hypocritical, cynical promises, which unfortunately most of our politicians forget on the second day, literally, after the elections. Woe to us men, as the classic Shevchenko wrote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u63	Dear National Deputies! Question closed, Igor Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u64	I want to thank all of you without exception to the MPs for having been able to sound this problem today and speak about it. A few words, the point is, all the project documentation is, Anatoly Ivanovich, I wanted to, yesterday was a whole day on the environmental committee, I just, you weren't there, I couldn't pass it on. As far as the boundaries are concerned, the boundaries are defined within the city, and the boundaries of the city are approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So they're also defined. In the end, I just wanted to say that Kalucha's environmental problem is not Kalucha's problem, it's a problem for every fifth Ukrainian after what might happen there. I want to thank you once again from the community, and I want to thank myself personally and thank the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote. There is a motion for the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law as a law approving the Presidential Order of Ukraine, “On the declaration of the territories of the city of Kalush and the village of Kropivnik and Siuka-Kaluska Kalu district of Ivano-Frankov region as a zone of an extremely ecological situation”. [[Registration number 6060]] Please vote. [[11:21:32]] For 392 The law is passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Regarding the proposals made regarding the situation in Ukraine as a whole in the environmental sphere, I would ask our committee to prepare an appropriate comprehensive draft decision, considering that there is already such a project by our colleague Chago so that we can consider and make appropriate decisions with government recommendations that should be taken into account in the preparation and adoption of the 2010 budget. I would ask you to do so without delay so that in the next plenary week, at least in the second half of the week, we can make the right decision. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of organisational and legal bases for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care is being submitted to your consideration. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Education and Science Polyanski Pavel Bronislavovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Lukjanova Katerina Evgenyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the bill proposed for consideration has been called upon, on the one hand, to remove the legal conflict between several laws of Ukraine. This is about the formulation of part four, part seven of the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of Children with Disabilities, which teaches in vocational and technical institutions and students in higher education institutions, on the other hand the Ukrainian Act on State Budget for the Year. As well as two decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from 1994 and 2001. What are we talking about conceptually? Article 8 of the Ukrainian Law does not specify the amount, i.e. it does not specify the specific size of the scholarship and the material aid that students and graduates of vocational and technical institutions receive and the students of higher education. The law in article 8 states that these children receive 50 percent more scholarship aid than students in other categories. However, article 8 does not indicate the lower amount from which the lower plank is based this 50 percent increase. And the practice is that not only are students of different higher education institutions today, but students of the same university, but they are taught in different faculties, for example, in math and mining, and they get a difference in the size of the scholarship. So here's the dilemma: what's the 50 percent increase? In addition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine each year, which concerns the last two years of 2008 and 2009 in the laws of Ukraine on the State Budget, lists this amount on a monetary scale and entrusts the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to carry out the corresponding calculations. To date, article 56 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 has defined such grants in cash per month for orphans and children deprived of parental care. For students in vocational and technical schools – 550 dollars per month, for students in higher education institutions I-IV levels of accreditation 1 thousand 160 dollars per month. If we took into account article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of social protection for orphans in its current edition, we would obviously have reduced the level of material security for such children by 25 to 30 percent, three figures. Then if the students of vocational and technical schools were to receive not 550 dollars, as they are now, but 300 dollars, this amount is taken from 200 dollars, which is added to 50 percent of the increase, students of the I-Il level of accreditation of higher education institutions would get 600 dollars per month, and students of higher education would get 3-4 levels of accreditation of 756 dollars. So these amounts are much lower than what these orphans get for today. Once again the name of these sums: students in vocational and technical schools get 550 today, not 300 dollars, and students get 1,160 dollars, and 795 dollars. As far as part of the seventh article of this law of Ukraine is concerned. She explains that in the employment of graduates of vocational and technical schools or students of higher education, they receive material assistance for clothing, shoes, and soft inventory. In the current version of article 8 of the law, which they are now referring to, they should receive assistance in the size of two minimum levels of living, but now the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Law on State Budget has set a much higher amount of aid, namely six subsistence minimums. And it should also be noted that this practice of paying more material aid to students and orphans has been in effect for two years now, it has been introduced by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by Ukraine's laws on the state budget of Ukraine. Accordingly, the Government requests the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve a new edition of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care, as proposed. The main motive of our proposal is that this, on the one hand, determines the current legal and financial practice of granting such assistance, on the other hand, removes the legal conflict in various legislative acts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. The names of the national deputies please be placed on the information board. Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u68	Thank you. Your Honor, I have two simple questions for you. First question. If you read the law, it reads “the graduates of orphanages and children deprived of parental care”. Please tell me, is this a public school?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u69	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u70	Let me keep going, because I still have a minute to ask you a question. And one more thing. What did you do when you wrote down the law that a one - time allowance for a given category of persons is paid only in the case of employment? What if a person has graduated from a school and has subsequently entered a different level of accreditation of a school, and what does he then lose the right to receive one - time money? What's the point? In general, you know that there are 22 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, which denies that citizens' rights and freedoms cannot be narrowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. The proposed bill is designed to protect students' social empowerment by the Supreme Council. Because they are, in effect, receiving much more from today than is provided for in the original edition of part four, part seven, of the Law in question. As to what you're asking about employment and learning. Today, the practice of such children’s future lives is like this. They either employ and are responsible for the relevant public authorities or they are trained in vocational and technical institutions or higher education institutions. This help is inescapable for such a child. Because if a child is employed, he gets the right amount, and when he learns too. And that's the sum at least. So there's an incontrovertible argument: six minimum subsistence minimums will always be more than two minimum subsistence minimums. We don't have a child in these two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u72	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u73	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Paul Bronislavovich, I want to continue this question with Mikli Mikhailovich, because he wanted to ask as well. Graduates who are employed and graduates who continue to study. It is a good intention to regulate in this law those positions that are in law. But the Education Act in articles 25 and 39.9 provides for the level of rights for graduates, such as those who continue to study and those who work. That is, help should be available. And logically, a person who works, or a person who goes to school, and has different opportunities to set up and maintain his life. So this should be the exact same approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u74	Thank you. During the course, graduates are provided with facilities that they have completed, a set of clothes, a soft inventory, and at least 12 of the minimum income they have taxed, plus 204 bracelets. Plus they get at least two and a half of the minimum tax revenue, it's going to be 45 and 20 bucks. In addition, at a further entrance to higher educational institutions, children receive at least 35 untaxed minimum incomes, i.e. 595 dollars. And so this material aid is both monetary and material. And it's levelling out independently of a child working or continuing to study at the university.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u75	Thank you. Have a seat. All who wanted to ask the question took advantage of that right. Ladies and gentlemen, who will report from the committee? You have documents, the committee proposes to adopt this bill as a basis. I am told that Lukyanova is ill. No, please, if there are speakers, please sign up for the speech. Safiullina's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u76	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! This bill has been considered before us at a meeting of the Committee, and a number of serious comments have been made. However, the Committee's decision was to recommend that the Supreme Council take the floor. I'm speaking because Lukyanova's sick.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u77	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance if you want to. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Oleg Lazko, Mikhailo Chechetov and Gordienko, please. Oleg Lazko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u78	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. The bill must be voted on. The Supreme Council has demonstrated its support for orphans and children deprived of parental care over the past few years. And I think we have to show this support again. Those remarks that my colleague Papiev was talking about, they obviously have a right to life, and the second reading will have to be, they say, look more closely at the bill, to work out this bill, so that all orphans and children deprived of parental care, regardless of whether they were employed, whether they were learning to have real support from the state. Because, unfortunately, it's a category of Ukrainian citizens, orphans who have been deprived of this attention to their families since childhood, then the state takes them there in a school, a children's house, after school, and these children are almost left behind. And thanks to the fact that we voted in the Supreme Council two years ago, a law that has greatly improved state aid has greatly increased the attention of the State to orphans and their problems, but I think that the bill that we are considering today is aimed at improving state aid. Because, as has been pointed out, the rules of law that are today would have predicted, if they had acted, a much smaller material aid to orphans and children deprived of parental care than the aid set out in the State Budget Act for the current year. And since we don't have this law for 2010, the actual orphans who are studying in colleges are getting a smaller scholarship today than they could get. So I think we need to remove these inadequacies. And I'm sure as soon as the economic situation in the country improves, as soon as there is sufficient financial capacity, we have to look at the next bill here -- and raise it even higher -- to raise material aid and scholarships for orphans and children deprived of parental care. Because all children need the attention of the state, and these categories of children need double attention. And we people's deputies have to pay attention to these kids. Thank you. And I urge the Supreme Council to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u79	Mikhail Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u80	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! We would like to make more careful efforts to understand in general the substance of this law before saying: Support it or not. Personally, I strongly oppose this law -- and the faction of the Party of Regions will not support it either -- for three reasons. First reason. We have always been a consistent political force, it is necessary that the size of the one-time aids, the size of the scholarships be established by law, not by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is the exclusive right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care should not depend on whether the Cabinet of Ministers wants it or not. Thus, basic laws must clearly establish them. In addition, we insist that all types of scholarships, social assistance, be determined depending on the size of the subsistence minimum. Because let's count it all together, we're told right now that a thousand hundred bracelets is good. And if you take the law on social standards, you know that today the living minimum for children between the ages of 6 and 18 is 901 bracelets. The double size is already 1802 bracelets. And we need the Cabinet of Ministers to pay, not 1,100 bracelets, but 1,802 bracelets. In fact, at 702 bracelets today, these kids get less help. And yet, today, if we don't adopt this law, we're still going to insist that the exact size of the law be regulated. And if there is money in the government budget, no one prevents these children from getting bigger than the basic law, the State Budget Act, if there are adequate funds in the government budget. And one more thing, the deputy minister, when I asked him questions, the graduates of the schools, as far as we know, is that the public education school is also a teaching facility. And by idea, by idea, all children should be in equal conditions. If a child goes and works after school after school, he will receive a one - time allowance under this law. And the child who entered the next school concluded that she would have to wait another four or five years to get that right. It is essential that we observe the standards of the Constitution of Ukraine and that everyone be in equal conditions. And one more question, and given the crisis, if the child failed to work, what would he do in this case? So let's not adopt this law. Let's give the order to make the law completely normal and logical, and make the size of these payments for.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u81	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u82	The size of these payments depends not on the Cabinet of Ministers, so that the Supreme Council will make them clear by law and that our children will be protected not only in one year but forever. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u83	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! On the one hand, we are considering a bill that is very attractive to its name and originality. It's like we're hearing the thought of not thinking about what they're saying, that, you see, what a huge concern the Ministry of Education and the Cabinet of Ministers are showing about orphans. But that's totally not true. Because the proposed edition of article 8 of the law does not extend social rights. and does not extend the social protection of this category of children, and it narrows them down to the will and desire of the Cabinet of Ministers. I'll remind you, according to the current article 8 of the law today, an orphan child or a child who is deprived of parental care by learning gets a scholarship 50 percent higher than a scholarship paid to students in this school. It is now proposed to take 50 percent away and it is written that scholarships are installed in the size that the Cabinet of Ministers determines. And which one of you guarantees that the Cabinet of Ministers is 51 or 100 percent of the allowance. No, it's not. The Cabinet of Ministers can set one percent of the allowance or not at all. Because, unfortunately, if we adopt this short law, we'll give him that right. I'm stressing again, today it's defined by law, and it needs to be left with the law. The next norm that colleagues and questions have asked about and talked about sounds logical. Today, according to the law in force, all graduates receive material assistance, even though they are still alive. He has graduated from a school, and according to the law, he receives both assistance and clothing, and one - time financial assistance. Now their rights are narrowed down. It is suggested that not all graduates receive one - time financial assistance, but also those who are employed. So let's get rid of unemployment first, and then we'll talk about what only those who have jobs. Undoubtedly, the main idea and essence of this law lie in another, so - called anti - crisis action. There's no doubt that even in the orphanages, the Cabinet of Ministers wants to save the state budget. I think you and I have enough sense not to support this ridiculous bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u85	Dear National Deputies! Those who signed up, who insists on speaking? Oleg Zarubinski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u86	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! I took the floor not to repeat what the previous speakers said. We have, as it were, an ongoing legislative process for me to get out of a very clear methodology. Any pre-election allowances, during the election, after the election are unacceptable. What I want to say is any allowance, any salary increase, scholarships, pensions is what's regulated by the law, and we have to get used to it. And so there will be no conflict, as the legislators want to do the right thing, but the methodology is not. By law, we have to define this, do you agree, Your Honor? That's supposed to be the case, it fits the law. And that's why it seems to me to be handing over here completely without regard to who is leading the Kabmin, what is the team there, which is the politicians and so on, and the other branch of power, the mission that Parliament is supposed to be carrying out and Parliamentary work, we just don't have the right to do it. And one more point, unfortunately in this law, I said correctly, I just want to sum it up, there are positions that actually narrow down rights, and that's true. Let's stop going through ourselves, especially those MPs who know the law well and violate the relevant rules of the Constitution. The Constitution is a direct act document, article 8, that's all they know. We can't narrow down people's rights by making changes to one or the other laws, these two positions we have to adopt and then Parliamentarianism will be Parliamentary and Parliament will be Parliamentary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law has been discussed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care. [[Registration number 5102]] [[11:46:20]] For 132 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on re-reading the bill's first registration number 5102. To read again. [[11:46:47]] For 314 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the list of cultural heritage monuments that are not subject to privatization, approved by the Ukrainian Law on the List of Cultural Heritage Monuments that are not subject to privatization, is being announced for consideration. [[Registration numbers 3453, 3453-1]] Rapporteurs are Ukrainian national deputies Viktor Viktorovich Shemczuk and Leonid Mikhajlovich Klimov, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u88	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on Change to List Cultural Heritage Monuments, which are not subject to privatization approved by the Ukrainian Law on September 23, 2008. National and cultural heritage is the result of the nation's spiritual and material activities, the collection of historical, archaeological, literary, architectural, urban, landscape and artistic values inherited from previous generations. The materials of cultural heritage are primarily architectural buildings, churches, monasteries, castles, palaces, and other cultural and architectural monuments that are objects of noble culture and objects of everyday culture and folk life. The state of preservation of Ukrainian cultural monuments is a source of concern, even though cultural heritage objects located in Ukraine are protected by the State. The Ukrainian Act on the List of Cultural Heritage Monuments, which is not subject to privatization, was drafted and adopted on the basis of article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which relies on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the Act. The Ukrainian law on the List of Cultural Heritage Monuments, which is not privatised, adopted on September 23, 2008 can, of course, remedy the preservation of cultural monuments in Ukraine. But there were inaccuracies in the list that needed immediate correction. Some objects included in the list are approved by the above - mentioned law, or they have been privatized in the past century or passed on to religious communities. Instead, a number of objects have been ignored or deliberately not included in this list. A particular concern is that — and surprising — it is that before such laws are listed. These facilities are not included in Yalta Palace, Alexander III Palace, but instead includes a residential building in the Vorontsov Palace, which has no bearing on the history of culture, and the apartment in this room was already privatized in the 1990s. It is also about the fact that for some reason it was not included in the list of historical and cultural monuments of the villa “Anna” in the sanatorium “Robroční kulok” in Alushta, the villa “Marina” in the same sanatorium, the House of Artist Lagorev in Fedosija, the Garden Park and Architectural Complex in the Sanatorium “Yalta” of the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation, the complex of the Yusupov Palace, which today is the unit of the Secretariat of the President of Ukraine. At the same time, it was also mistakenly included in the above-mentioned bill and object, which is included in the Mukatev Castle “Palanok”, because it is already included in this list and is under number 168 in the appendix to the bill. In view of the foregoing, I ask the National Deputies to support and regulate activities and to remove the inaccuracies that are contained in the law on the list of cultural heritage that are not subject to privatization, particularly with regard to those objects listed in the appendix to the list. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the question is to the national MP? Please sign up. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u90	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear reporter, I have such a general question, please tell us that we can permanently submit new objects to the list of objects. Well, you know, it's counterproductive, and we're not privatizing it, obviously, we're going to vote in favour of this bill, because it's Block of Lithuania. But tell me, who has eventually in Ukraine, which is not, say, the territory of Australia or the population of China, why can't we still form a real list of cultural heritage, cultural heritage objects that are not privatized? Otherwise, if we do it in stages like this, in chronology, we can't get there. And the objects of the cultural heritage are privatized, who is responsible for this, why can't this be done in Ukraine once, and so everyone knows clearly that it can't be privatized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u91	Thank you for asking. It really is a problem today. I think it's a problem for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it's a problem for the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, a problem for local self-government in one region or another. Because in this bill, where I have analyzed what is happening in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, I have great doubt that these are technical inaccuracies, or I have forgotten to include any objects. It is no mystery that an object of cultural heritage has a protective zone. There is a ban on doing business or other activities. And so I think, first of all, it's a mistake that's causing a lot of questions to those organs and people who are responsible for preserving the cultural heritage. So I'm counting that, of course, if we change this law separately, it's really counterproductive. At the same time, the Crimea needs to be corrected immediately in order to prevent the looting of those objects, namely, the Livadian Palace, namely the Vorontsov Palace, namely the Alexander III Palace, which is now in the knowledge of the President's Secretariat, i.e. to set up fuses that will not allow them to privatize them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u92	Pavlovski National Deputy, Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u93	You gave us some interesting information about what objects were forgotten to include in the list of objects that refer to the historical heritage, which is why they cannot be privatized, and I am surprised that they forgot about the Vrontsov Palace in Crimea, the Palanok Castle in Mukachev and a number of such objects sign, yes, someone already wants to have a fazenek there at the Vorontsov Palace. And, as you can imagine, has it been deliberately done that these objects have not been included in this list? I would like to add that Yulia Tymoshenko will vote in favour of completing such a list.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u94	Well, I find it difficult to say how deliberately this has been done, however, that these objects that are objects of the World Heritage that are not included in this list raise very many questions to those who, under their official responsibilities, were obliged to take measures not only to include these objects in the list of objects of cultural history that are not subject to privatization but also to ensure that they are preserved and prevented from building on their territory, that land is allocated to their territories, and that other measures are taken to ensure that these objects are not only for us but also for the future generation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Victor Viktorovich, please explain what's going on in Crimea. Here we have, and we have a commission of inquiry from the Supreme Council, and I've reported on the situation, and I've personally read the materials of this commission of inquiry, and I've read the materials of those appeals that I have, and I have the impression that there's no Attorney General there, and there's the name of the Attorney General's Office, which is the Attorney General's Office of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and everything else is not going on. And, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, we were to hear information from the Attorney General, the head of the U.S.A., and the minister of internal affairs about the facts that were set up in Crimea in January, especially the use of architectural monuments, by the way. And we didn't do it. It's been a month. Today, it's hot in the middle. Are we changing the situation or not? And to you, the question is specific to the monuments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u97	Thank you for asking. Well, I'm sure it would be inappropriate for me to evaluate the activities of the prosecutor's office that I have led in my time, but there are issues and problems in the activities of the Attorney General's Office of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea today. With regard to questions relating to public affairs, I believe that these objects must be included in this list. It is in the bill about the Yusupov Palace complex, which has been included as an object of cultural heritage since 1990 by the decision of the Crimean Archduke. For what reason it was not submitted before, once again, to a list of objects that are not privatized, it is certainly a matter for the Secretary of the President. What about other problems that exist today, including the preservation of a cultural heritage in the Crimea? So, in fact, we're probably not being followed by the regional prosecutor's office, and probably by those monitoring bodies that are called upon to control the use of monuments, monuments of cultural history. I think that the adoption of this bill will first be called upon to ban precisely these objects that we have already discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u98	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear reporter, it is clear that the Supreme Council in this situation will always and will now stand and stand in defense of the cultural heritage of ours, all of these objects. But nevertheless, you see a process that, you're making a bill that prohibits exclusion, and the next one will make a request to allow exclusion from the list. So I think that we should have a clear and clear register of those cultural heritage objects that can't be reviewed and actually legislatively anchored in the inability to view, because that's things that aren't just thought out, even if there are nuances, these nuances need to be worked out and worked on separately, it's not worth doing the law on deletion or inclusion. On the whole, we understand that it is difficult to keep very many objects in Ukraine in public hands and tell a story about the need to privatize. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u100	First of all, I take this positive, in the sense that objects of cultural heritage should be preserved for future generations regardless of whose property they are. At the same time, the objects in question today are precisely objects that are not subject to privatization under any circumstances. As for the complex approach to solving this problem, I think that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's own profile committee and the monitoring body, and the Cabinet of Ministers should have been more careful and comprehensive in addressing these issues. Invite local self - government authorities to provide data on objects in their territories. In general, the time may have come to test the preservation of these objects, such as the same U.S. Attorney General’s Office. Therefore, I believe that if this issue has aroused such a lively interest in MPs, I think that we are able to set up both the Attorney General and the Attorney General's Office and create a commission of inquiry in the Supreme Council to verify how these objects are located, perhaps most of them are either no longer in state ownership or are in private hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u101	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u102	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Victor Victorovich, we will support your bill, which is conveniently different from any alternative to where we speak of removal. But two clarifying questions. Your bill is about clarifying the location of the Vorontsov Palace complex and excluding a residential building from there. But we know that there's an effort in the garden and park complexes of architecture to build certain buildings, to privatize. And it goes all over the Crimea. There are many examples here, and the very people involved are sitting there and even in the Supreme Council Hall. And the second question is about the park and architectural complex, where the Yalta sanatorium of the Black Sea fleet of Russia is now located. Whose property is this today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u103	Thank you for asking. The point is that what's happening with the Vrontsov Palace is the exact location of this facility, that garden park complex, because a mistake has been made. It's said that it's on the Palace Road, 10 in the city of Alupe, and there's a security zone right here. In fact, it is at the address of the city of Aluupka, the Palace Road, 18, which does not have a protected area today, and this leads to what you're talking about, the possibility of some kind of rotation with land outside the protected zone. So I propose that these changes be made so that the site of this facility is also a protected area. As far as the facility that is now part of the Vorontsov Palace complex is concerned, it is a residential building that has been and is now on the balance sheet of the Mountain Sun sanatorium, and the inhabitants of this house have privatized all the apartments in the 1990s. That is, it is not an object of cultural heritage. And I think that this mistake should also be corrected. As far as the Yalta sanatorium of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation is concerned, to my conviction, regardless of whose property this sanatorium is located, it is a monument to history and culture and must be preserved in the way it is today and will not be privatized. So I think it's the right thing to do: regardless of whose property this object belongs to, it has to be included in the list of historical and cultural monuments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u104	Thank you, Victor Victorovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, there is such an offer: to take a break. In doing so, I draw your attention to the fact that these bills are not alternatives. One is proposed to give status, and the other is to take down status as historical monuments. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning plenary session. Please, we are considering the draft Law on Change to List Cultural Heritage Monuments, which is not subject to privatization. [[Registration number 3453]] Now is the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Klimov Leonid Mihajlovich. No co-reporter for Project 3453-1. Please, from the committee of the Yavorovský Volodymyr Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u106	Dear voters, dear fellow national MPs! In April, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality considered both these bills, the benefactors Shemczuk and Klimov, and handed down its verdict. Before that, I'd like to say that the situation, of course, with the memory protection in Ukraine, well, it's just-just terrible. What's happening today in Kiev, you know, in terms of what's missing from Euro-2010 is actually almost on display, for sale, the unique buildings of Kiev are our capital. We are with you after a very long, brief work being done by the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, after all, we are on this long-lasting list -- a register of our cultural monuments that Ukraine has. And because of that, I would have reassured my fellow national MPs that, clearly, this is the first list, in it somehow, naturally or not, and still there were some mistakes, some inaccuracies that were coming in the time to bring them back to normal, put everything in place. Because of the first bill of good for Shemchuck, I have to just thank him, because this is a completely state-owned approach to it, the attempt to protect in Crimea that is not very sure for today, and around what is already being trampled, the tramps are being known to us. As a result, this bill is really designed to protect the unique things that are in Crimea. I'm addressing Victor Schemchuck, the national deputy, apparently, with regard to the Vrontsov Palace, there's a degree of inaccuracy, a certain lack of care. If it were to say immediately that this is a residential building in the area that is occupied by the palace and that is adjacent to it, and this house is privatized, I emphasize, back in the early 1990s. So he has nothing to do with it right now, it was just a mistake when we accepted it. So I don't think it would have happened at all, because today we had some passions on our Buttilla faction when someone thought that the Vrontsov Palace had been privatized by the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. That's not true. I'm just convinced that if the author of the bill agrees to write down that this is about a privatized residence in the territory, I don't think there's going to be any resistance in the MPs. If not, I understand what may be behind it. since the line contains the “Vrontsov Palace”. It's about this. I'm very grateful that you have a huge list of government protections, you have these documents, look, unique things right here in Crimea. In this way we will be able to preserve these unique things. As far as I'm So the committee fully supports, provided that this amendment is made, or orally, Alexandre Volodymyrovich, and then you can vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Or a second reading to correct this purely technical error. About Klimov's bill. The committee rejected him. I turned it down because there are a lot of things here that give us a lot of caution, so to speak. Take a simple look. This is going to happen if I'm right, if I'm right, maybe one tenth of Odessa, which is taken out of the privatization ban, and they want to privatize it. [[I studied at Odessa University. I know Odessa.]] Well, I'll tell you. First of all, the Sturdov church with the Church of Scorch. Why was it decided, an explanation of why it was decided to be removed and placed under privatization? Because it's said that it was built in 1949-1952, and it's in poor technical condition, and it's lost its historical value. Well, can it be that if it needs capital repair, it should be branded as a loss of historical value? But it can never be, it just needs to be restored. Well, I'm just saying, the building of an art school in Odessa. Well, thinking about privatizing a school that was built in the early 19th because there's no money for renovations today! And it's accompanied by everyone that the local council has accepted approval to repair it, but at the expense of the investors. So let's think and repair at the expense of investors, not just take and throw away the unique thing that Odessa has today. Because of this, the committee proposes to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u107	Please sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. The sand is Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u108	Your Honor, the faction of the Party of the Regions is not going to support this, because you've got a lot of confusion there. But there is one specific question. On more than one occasion, I raised a question about the garrison house of the officers of the city of Chernivci, which was built during the interwar period by the Romanian community of the Bukovina community as well as by the Bucharest Metropolitan Orthodox Church, and the question was that, when the reorganization took place, these houses should be returned to the appropriate organizations. At the same time, the city council was ready for officers to buy suitable apartments to put the city council's balance, to municipal property, in order to provide room for both Romanian societies and the Orthodox diocese. Please tell me why you're so stubborn, even though we've recorded it in the transcript, don't you include it? There are other problems our colleagues will discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u109	Answering your question. Well, first of all, don't be so incorrigible that "you've got something mixed up in there." The committee didn't mess it up. If you have claims to bills, they're claims to authors, not to a committee. The committee considered them, considered them in time, there was a very detailed, pedantic discussion, and the committee took its decision. Because of that, we didn't mess anything up. The second question is, if you think you need to do this, you're wonderful. No worse than me, you know, in your authority as a national deputy. Please make your draft decision to do what you consider to be bypassing. The committee will consider it, bring it to a session of the Supreme Council, Yavorowski will not solve these issues, they will not even be decided by the committee, it is a transitional stage, and the Supreme Council. Please, please, but what are my claims? That there's no document of this? Please bring it in, we'll look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u110	Stojko Ivan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u111	You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u112	Yes, there is, there is, there John Stojko, group “For Ukraine! ” Mr. Volodymyr, indeed, is surprised to see the very question: The removal of these cultural values, architectural ones, from the list of state monuments. You know, it reminds me of this law, literally, Ryder law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u113	You're talking about Klimov's law, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u114	Yeah, yeah. A rayder law that has a tent, not a tent of preservation, but an acceptance, and so on. Please tell me, if you compare two laws, the first in Crimea and the first in Crimea, indeed, with Victor Schemchuck's Crimea, which is really directed at preserving memories, and this is the other way around. As you think, if we can even consider such laws and if we need to do something not to put them on the Supreme Council, let's say those bills that conflict not only with national acquisitions, but generally because of what the Ukrainian people have done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u115	Let's talk, let's make a deal. Let the chairman give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u116	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u117	What the Ukrainian people have really added over the centuries is that it is impossible for a person to be intelligent, culturally able to submit such bills to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u118	Answer. I understand your good intentions. Indeed, he has a good purpose. One way to make a common shield is to protect what is best today in Ukraine. But, Mr. John, unfortunately, it's not possible to do that, you know, by a kilo or a ton. Each particular historical monument must be approached. There are really things that, let's say, the same Shemchuk, look, he asked to remove from this list the Monastery and the caves of Danielch-Coba. Why delete? Because there is no such security number. Next, the monument is duplicated. So it was just a mistake. And he wants to correct that mistake. By the way, everything he's offering, and the same Yusupian mosque, because it has nothing to do with the complex of the former Yusupium Palace. So it's purely technical. And here Klimov proposes to remove those who are already protected by the state that are already on this list, and he wants to get them out of there and throw them into the market. I don't suspect anyone, but it's unacceptable. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” for the second bill will not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u119	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u120	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Volodymyr, I'd like to ask you a question. Please take a look at the list provided by the Klimov National Deputy in Project 3453-1. It's a list of practically all of Odessa's center. This list of premises, which I deliberately highlight and highlight in the word “consciously” is being destroyed. We've got a new plague coming. You want to privatize something, you set it on fire, you sleep, you bring it down, and then, please, nobody cares anymore. I'll give you an example of the Navy Museum. In the center, near the Opera Theatre. Look, he's already here, the Andrew Club building, he's already in the list that's coming. I would like to ask you to practice and make a field meeting of your committee to the city of Odessa on those monuments that are deliberately disrupted by the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u121	You're right, Mr. Carmazin. We'll do it. Our committee, I have to say very mobile, we're actually almost every month, in addition to these complex ones: it's a holiday, it's an election, it's a month. We were the last to visit Caneva, where we held a travel session with the participation of Ukrainian intelligence. We're going literally in a month, we're going to Lviv, so we're going to plan this trip to Odessa, but to vote, once again, I'm saying in favour of this bill, I told you that it's some one-tenth, one-fifteenth of the values that are in Odessa, they want to be removed from this list, from the protection of the state, and to throw them out there not their own, that's another question. You're right as always, Mr. Carmazin, you're right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u122	Thank you, sit down, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Cord Vitaly Terentiyovich, please. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u123	Today, February 12, 65 years ago, the Crimean Yaltic Conference ended. The Vrontsov Palace was home to British Prime Minister Winston Churchill. And here today we are looking at a bill that proposes to remove the Vorontsov Palace from the list of objects that are not subject to privatization. But thank you to colleague Shevcuk Viktor Viktorovich, who explained that this is not the Vorontsovski Palace itself, but a residential building located in the palace. But it's very unclear, and I'm afraid that this is not a clear formulation that can lead to, as you said with the numbers in the BTI, that the Vorontsov Palace in our list is registered under the 10th number, and in the BTI Crimean under the 18th number. And that makes it possible right in the security zone to build private gardens, let's look at the Nikita Botanical Garden. The kings set it up, hundreds of land didn't steal, power came, you know, you know, who built half of Nikita's park there today, split it up, built huge huts like this six thousand square feet [6,000 sq m] of area, and flew there on helicopters. The same Donetsk Botanical Garden, scientists have set up, and our poor politicians, the woe leaders are stretching this land like kleptomaniacs. Clearly, then, the bill proposed by colleague Shemchuk must be supported. And there's an offer not to drag it, not to put it in a long box, because while we're working on its second reading, no one's ever been able to form the land in the same Vorontsov Palace, they're going to have to form it, or they're going to be in the Livadian complex. So you have to, I think if you delete this rule about the Vorontsov Palace, you can support this law as a whole. And our faction will vote in favour of this law as a whole in order not to allow the stretching of all the historical cultural monuments that are the acquisitions of all the Ukrainian people. Unfortunately, we see the efforts of modern guides, oligarchs to stretch all this out. As Mr. Carmazin rightly mentioned, a sea museum was burned in the center of Odessa, three years or four of them already standing incinerated, and on account of his lack of money repairs, they want to privatize the museum in the very center of Odessa near the Potomkin stairs. The same in the Crimea, all that could be stretched, is now left to stretch historical monuments. Therefore, our task of enacting this law is immediately, in view of the law of Shemchuk, and to stop the process of debasing the historical and cultural monuments of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u124	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u125	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, MP “For Ukraine!” supports the idea that the bill submitted by Shemczuk really needs the editor, the new editorial he has proposed, to take into account and to adopt the law as a whole. But I would point out that these two bills just showed two trends in modern Ukrainian society. This is trying to preserve the patriotic part of all these national acquisitions, including architectural ones, and the second, at all costs, all the opportunities to use are primarily capable of privatizing them. And usually, in architectural complexes, which are included in privatization, there are medical, educational and educational institutions. And we have bitter statistics in the Ministry of Health, when anti-tuberculosis facilities, medical facilities, have already been evicted from Crimea and Odessa, and privatization has taken place. This has been written and done throughout all the years of independence. But when we include those architectural complexes that are not privatized, do we solve the problem? Not at all. Because there are bitter examples when our architectures and the same: Kiev-Pecherska Lavra, Sofia Lavra, which are included in UNESCO's architecture monuments; or the construction of Kamyanza-Podilski, Lviv, Kiev and so on, which are included in significant architectural acquisitions, but not made available from the state, and they are in a very difficult state, which forces them to look for ways to finance, and usually all the efforts to invest in some kind of cost end up privatizing. So once again, I call for a vote in favour of Law 3453 by the national deputy Shemchuk, and for other bills to be rejected. And the Committee on Spirituality and Culture will think about this program, how we can help those institutions that are primarily included in the UNESCO list to help them financially to preserve the acquisitions of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u126	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u127	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Alexander Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, an interesting situation, we're looking at, in fact, two bills, they're not alternatives, how strangely. And they're not alternatives for one simple reason. One bill suggests leaving cultural heritage for the offspring, and the other suggests removing cultural heritage from a list that is not privatized. These things will continue until there is what I asked in my question, until there is complete inventory of cultural heritage objects in Ukraine. I don't understand why this isn't happening until now. There's a Ministry of Culture that's supposed to take care of this, there's a district of culture, there's a district of culture. Why is it that so far this list is not definitively defined to which no one will be able to add their unclean hands to this list? If we constantly, occasionally, make or remove certain objects, this list can be buried, and it can be forgotten. So once again, I insist that this is a matter that must be done by the authorities responsible. And we have them. And in addition, I already mentioned twice the example, but I think that if, honourable colleagues, everyone had read that Bill 3453-1 was proposing to be removed from the list, that was a rather interesting list, and an even more interesting argument. One argument about what Yuri Anatoliyovich said was that they were burned on purpose or not in 2005, and now they're saying, well, you see, there's nothing left to protect, no sign of a cultural object? [[I'm not an investigator, I'm not a prosecutor, and I'm not gonna talk.]] And there's an interesting moment. See, the site of the Bacteriological Station, who knows Odessa, on Paster Street, in the center of town. [[Odessa City]] The argument why did you have to remove it from the list? Built in 895 -- a medical university that is located in this area does not meet the current requirements of university education, research. Wait? So we're talking about an object of cultural heritage or this stupid thing that's written down? I'm sorry. I have to say this, and this position has to be clear, we don't have the right to remove from this list why, because that's because it's not renewable, no one can restore it if it's lost to the country, because in an empty place even.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u128	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u129	When they build, for example, the temple of Christ the Savior, you know, I don't want to offend anyone, but these things get the status of butaphoria when it's empty, and then someone in tens of years has decided to build the same thing that it used to be. They're not the walls anymore, they're not the stones anymore, they're not the spirit anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u130	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u131	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Honourable Decaves and Crimsons, for you are the ones who are concerned with these bills! I'd like to start now with Odessa. I looked at this bill, and I think, if you can get to this cynicism, imagine, 10 different monuments are written here, one of them is an outpatient building is a building where there is now a district anti-tuberculosis dispenser. In general, there is an attack, an attack on Crimea, an attack on several anti - TB sanatoriums, an attack on Odessa that is now being fought against tuberculosis in this country. Motivation. In view of the need for urgent repairs, the lack of funds by the district council has led to a decision to involve investors. The district council is completely regional, and I'm saying this to Mr. Yanukovich, as a deputy, as a colleague of mine, whom I never see here, and I can't say it to him in my eyes, I'm sorry. The other one. The City Psychiatric Hospital complex. In view of these circumstances, the district council has decided on a new dispensary, once again another building of the Belgrade-Dniestrovsk TB sanatorium also lacks funds. And this takes a decision and a district council that finds 30 million extra funds at the end of last year's crisis year and hands over Mr. Klimov's "Imexbank" because it's too much money. What cynicism does it take not to give to the hospital mental health care, not to give these anti - tuberculosis diseases, not to give them to an art school located in Presbyterian, 14, once the street of the Soviet Army. I mean, let's keep them moving, and we'll save our bankers. Your Honor, it's cynicism that can't be introduced into the law. I firmly oppose the adoption of similar laws on removal. I am addressing Minhhvy, I am addressing the head of the Committee, Tetjana Bachtewa, on health issues that I respect, and I know that she is an expert. I'm talking to Mr. Yavorowski, Mr. Volodymyr, I'm dusting you, have a joint visiting session to preserve the architecture and culture monuments in Odessa, and you'll see that I've already spoken from this rostrum that the London Hotel, now rented, is privatizing for twenty-four million dollars. It's the price of a maid, a poor maid on the Fountain of Odessa, so you know. That's what's happening today. Because that's how they leased at that price. These things happen and they are possible. For the adoption of Law 3453 and definitely against the adoption of the 3453 with the badge 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u132	The discussion is over. Please conclude with Victor Viktorovich Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask because the question of a residential building outside the Vorontsovsky Palace has been raised by a number of national deputies. [[Security number 1215/27]] I would like to have this paragraph removed from the bill and I would like to support a bill that is primarily designed to preserve the acquisitions that have remained in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea so far, namely objects of cultural heritage that are not subject to privatization in this list. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u134	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski’s closing word From the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I think the discussion was very fruitful and really on a state level. I would just like to remind my favorite Zarubinsky National Deputy, who spends the best years of his life on the rostrum, that we have adopted such a List of Cultural Heritage Objects that are not allowed to be privatized. Such a list, Mr. Oleg, is, we accepted it. When we accepted it, I told everyone, this list, this list is open. We can, as time goes by, and some point is absolutely real, but once again I say state-owned, state-owned, we're going to add something to it, which, of course, made National Deputy Shemchuk. We can finally, maybe we'll have to remove something really. But it takes a very deep argument, very deeply to convince us that there's not an uncle standing there with a bag that's already waiting for when it means it's all going to be thrown into the market. This time. And the second. I would like to propose to the people's deputies and to the author of the bill the benefit of Shemchuk, there is a version that may have been taken and called: “a residential, already privatized building in the area of the Vorontsov Palace complex.” [[Under the stenogram, I say.]] Then it would be possible, Mr. Victore, then perhaps you could not delete it if you wrote: “a residential, already privatised building in the area of the Vorontsov Palace complex”. Then you can leave it. Please decide for the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u136	Replica Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinsky
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u137	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. I'd like to say to my esteemed colleague that I spend better years of my life in the workplace, at work, where I work, where I spend, as opposed to those who don't work. That's the first one. And the others. If we had a real list, I emphasize, real in every town, every village, all the more along every district center of cultural heritage objects, then there would be no problems that arise, and we would not have to waste time on these discussions. Because what applies to cultural heritage belongs not to us, or only to us, but to our descendants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, the discussion is concluded, the closing words are spoken, and the right to reply is exercised. It is up to the vote to be adopted in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act amending the list of cultural heritage that are not subject to privatization. [[Registration number 3453]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:01:37]] For 199 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a re-reading proposal. Are there any other suggestions? Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u139	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, there is a golden grain in this bill that should not be disposed of right now. Indeed, to the first point, to the point where it refers to the Vorontsov Palace and so on, and so on, and so we have a similar remark and a warning. If the author did not deny that we should vote on the law without the first paragraph so that we could only vote on the law on the inclusion of historical and cultural monuments in the list of those objects that are not subject to privatization without the first item. If there are no objections to the author, we are ready to support such an offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, we're somewhat out of line here. We can make this an exception if there is total consensus in the room. Does no one object to this offer? Is everyone all right? I am voting on the proposal for a first reading draft of the Act amending the list of cultural heritage that are not subject to privatization, with the deletion of the first paragraph of the law. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:03:29]] For 303 Decision taken. The first reading of the bill was approved. There is a proposal by the national deputies for approval in general. Does any of Ukraine's national deputies object to such a decision? No one's denying it. I would like to vote on Bill 3453 as a whole: on amending the List of Cultural Heritage Monuments that are not subject to privatization. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:04:19]] For 304 Decision taken. The law has been passed in general. I'll bet on the vote. Attention, please. I put to the vote for adoption in the first reading draft of Law 3453-1, introduced by the People's MP Klimov: amending the Act on the List of Cultural Heritage Monuments, which are not privatized. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:05:00]] For 1 The bill was rejected. Fellow Christians, 1 / 15 We're going to sign up for “Victane”. Kaletnik Igor Grigorovich, please. Please, National Deputy Demyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u141	Victoria Demyanchuk, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Kirovogradishte Dear colleagues, honourable voters, all of us know that today's system of social protection for Ukraine is far from the best times of its development. This is particularly true of the social services provided by pensioners, single, unemployed citizens, and disabled persons, who first need the support of the State. This is evident from the numerous appeals that come to us. Most complaints arise through gaps in existing social legislation. Because the real reality does not answer because it is written in the law. As a result, social tensions and social mistrust of active authority on the part of the population are on the rise. On December 29, 2010, Decree No. 1417 of the Ministers of Ukraine approved a standard provision for a territorial social service centre, a social service facility where social services can be provided free of charge to elderly citizens, disabled persons, patients who are incapable of self - care and who do not have family and citizens who are in a difficult unemployment situation. Other needy citizens have to receive social services on a paid basis, according to the approved provision, such care by the authorities has reportedly survived, found from whom to take payment services. The problem is that today a large number of people in need will not be able to afford to pay for social services due to a lack of funds. This is particularly true in rural areas where the pension is 630-700 dollars. First, it will lead to a significant deterioration in their living, living and social security conditions. Secondly, if the number of service providers decreases sharply, this will lead to a significant reduction in the state of social services. This situation cannot leave us indifferent. I want to demonstrate the effect of the ruling on the example of the New Ukrainian Territorial Centre of the Kirovograd region. As of January 20, 2010, 1,837 people are serving the centre, 23 percent of whom are single citizens and, according to the new situation, are to be served by the territorial center for free. Other citizens, and 903 people in the New Ukraine region will have to receive payment-based services. In particular today, while noting the sustainability of the district’s budget, local executives will not be able to make decisions about the release or reduction of the level of social services paid at home to citizens who have relatives. Because it will entail a significant allocation of additional funds to maintain an area center that is not currently available in the district budget. The logical calculation of the payment of services is to provide social assistance at home, which will be at least 280.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u142	Please, three more minutes. The regulations of the national MP, Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u143	The logical calculation of social welfare payments at home will be at least 280 dollars a month, a pension of 630 and a subsistence minimum of 573 bracelets. This service organization in the area will cause social tension, mass discontent, and a significant deterioration in the condition of materially needy citizens. In view of the above, given the urgency of the problem and its relevance to Ukraine, I would like to ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine to be asked to review the decision, taking into account the above facts. I want to remind you that the demographic situation has worsened in Ukraine in the last 20 years. Mortality is more than born several times in some regions. So let us not make this situation any worse, and let us turn our faces back to the people who are waiting for help from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u144	Please, National Deputy Taran, instead of Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u145	Thank you. Victor Taran, Timoshenko Street. I have already spoken from this high rostrum that the invitation of President Viktor Yanukovic to the Ukrainians was made in Russian, where immediately after the second round of elections became a sign for the onset of Ukrainian language and culture, and made it possible, for example, for such totally diocese actions as the capture of raiders in the masks of the Writer's Bookstore "Sivo". And here's another source of anti-Ukraine, another attack on Ukrainian language and culture. For people to know, at the Supreme Council, the Party of Regions is now actively pushing, pushing, and stretching the draft of the new Language Act. And under this law, district councils would be given the right to teach children in Russian according to parental statements. In fact, this means that Ukrainian schools will be reduced, destroyed, as it is always possible to collect or simply falsify similar claims. So let's say they falsified the election because, let's say, in all of the areas where we were able to make the recalculation, the falsified voices in favor of Yanukovich 6, 8, 10 and more percent. And the gap between the two candidates is 3.5 percent. This is to let people know how honest these elections were. [[in quotes]] The members of the Party of the Regions have no right to make similar laws. Why? Because, according to the Constitution, we have one national language. Because it destroys the Constitution of Ukraine. But maybe that's what they need to do -- destroy the Constitution, destroy the country's own congregation. And I'm sure that the anti-Ukrainian actions in Parliament and beyond will find the right resistance for everyone for whom Ukraine is not an empty sound. But at the same time, if you'll excuse me, there is a question at the same time. Why is it that now, when such a violent attack on Ukrainian language began and when there would be an even greater attack on Ukrainian spirituality, why are they silent, so-called national patriots, who were so active when they were so overconfident that all presidential candidates were the same. Did they run out of courage, our national provokers, or did they stop taking them on TV because they've done their job, and they don't need them anymore, they've wiped their legs off and thrown them out. And at the same time, I want to assure you that BUT, our faction, that our leader Julia Timoshenko, that we will not all give, we will never let anyone touch our spiritual shrines, our language, our culture, our Ukraine. And today, in Parliament, you saw that we protected our cultural monuments from being stretched out, ripped apart, and ripped apart and made from Vorontsovski or something else by the Interigree. And we will protect Ukraine, but we will protect it with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u146	Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u147	Yuri Gnatkević, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Ukrainians, it is just 21 years before the Society of the Ukrainian Language was established in Kiev. Which was essentially the beginning of the declaration of independence. Many Ukrainians finally remembered that they were Ukrainian. According to President Kravchuk, Ukrainian national rebirths began, Ukrainian schools opened up, university professors stopped being afraid to teach in Ukrainian, and Ukrainian radios spoke in Ukrainian. At Kuchma, Ukrainian rebirth stopped. The Ukrainians began quietly, according to the instructions of Dmitri Tobacco, to smoke from the military, from higher education, from all humanitarian areas. The attempt to teach Ukrainians will be called “a grave violation of the rights of the Russian-speaking people”. All the oligarchs, including no Ukrainians, created all the new television channels where Ukrainian language was allowed as an exception. The Russian - speaking newspapers were pushed out of the Ukrainian press market, in Kuchma’s time, the Ukrainian language was formally proclaimed in the Constitution by the State, but in the east and south of Ukraine, and in all the media, the imperial Russian language was firmly established as dominant. In this sense, the orange field became a battlefield between those who wanted to build a real Ukrainian national state and those who saw it as another Russian state, ala Donbas. Fearing the linguistic commitment of Ukraine’s entire orange revolution, the Ukrainian national intelligence and the population of Ukraine’s Western regions supported it. The Orange Revolution was defeated immediately after its victory. The slogan was forgotten, the revolutionaries were dispersed, and the oligarchs were supported. Rustification is still going on. The capital of Ukraine continues to reject its language, the young people of Kiev have already switched to the Moscow accent, and Ukrainian newspapers can only be purchased by 9 a.m. because of small circulation. Ukrainian film consciously and for a long time destroyed, the Donetsk TV channel “Ukraine”, think about it, during all New Year’s and Christmas holidays it did not transmit any Ukrainian song or generosity. All the concerts from Moscow, Baskov, Kirkorov, Leontiev, and Makim Galkin were carved as if there were no number of singers and humorists in the Ukrainians. The Ukrainians had a chance to return to their national rebirth, but they lost it as a result of massive falsifications, bribes and intimidations, bribes from Moscow - based pops in western Ukraine, the Donetsk oligarchy again imposed the Ukrainian President’s environment with an environment that the Ukrainian language hated and could not even be recognized by any of them. Briberyed and fed by oligarchs, the national provocateurs from one famous party, which begins on the leader “with” their calls to vote against both of them, achieved their coming to power. So let them now wait for a new wave of power from the cleansing of the Ukrainians. Boris Kolesnikov has already introduced a bill from the Party of Regions that will practically shut down all Ukrainian schools in the East and South of Ukraine, and that will go to the State language of the Russian Federation in colleges. Just let them remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u148	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u149	That the national issue is an extremely acute and painful question so that they don't stir something up in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u150	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u151	I draw the attention of the citizens of the country to the situation in the session room. There are no representatives of the Party of Regions in the Hall, none of them have signed up for a different performance. And remember a week before that, as they were all writing down and all of them promised people prosperity, improvement of life today for the people, and so on, there is now none. Why? Because there's no need to hang a paw on her ears, because she's been hanged so much, there's no need to cheat anymore. Just as on February 9, the Supreme Council voted on a bill to raise state social assistance for low - living families to a minimum. A party of regions that has built their entire electoral campaign to improve people's lives today has not voted for this bill. That is, the electoral campaign has ended and the need to care for low - income families in which millions are living in Ukraine has fallen. Let this be a lesson to millions of Ukrainian citizens who voted in favour of Yanukovic’s false promises. And what did you get? Janukovic had not yet reached power; he had forgotten, had broken through these promises to the people. You can only guess what this person will do if he doesn't give a god he gets to power, not only will he take people to asphalt, as our fellow MPs told him, but they will take the last penny, the last pension, the salary paid and paid by the government of Timoshenko. This is the price of being respected citizens, those who bought the false promises of Yanukovich. And today this so-called leader of the Ukrainian people, who actually voted for less than a third of the Ukrainian electorate, asks Timoshenko to resign, because, you see, the people have said their firm word as if to support Yanukovich. Viktor Fedorovich probably does not know the classics of Russian or Ukrainian literature, but he did not know the mathematics at school because the results of the election show that the balance between the two candidates. In fact, 12 million Ukrainian citizens who voted for Timoshenko expressed their confidence as Prime Minister. And that's why Prime Minister Timoshenko and her government must continue to work in the interests of the country, not give in to any provocations about resigning. God forbid, the government will resign to steal what Timoshenko has been gathering for the last two years. Once again, neither wages nor pensions will be paid — the government of Yanukovic. And they're going to cheat everything on Timoshenko, which, you see, that's what led to it. In fact, this hungry pack will fill its pockets. This is what they will do in power. So it's a task.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u152	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u153	So the task is to preserve the democratic coalition in the Supreme Council, the task is to preserve the government of Yulia Timoshenko, and the task is to preserve the democratic conquests of our country, which are cared for here by the National Democrats and other deputies who care about the country's fate. This is the main question that today is in the order of the day and which, God forbid, we will not do this task, which will result in the loss of independence and democracy in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! Dear Oleg Valeriyovich! You're being approached by a representative of the Party of Regions, who is in the session room, who wants to remind you that the draft Social Standards Act for certain types of population voted in the first reading of a hundred percent of the members of the factions of the region. The second reading is actually to take into account the proposals that come from national MPs and other organizations that go to parliament. So please be correct and true in your statements. I invite you to speak to Sergey Volodymyrovich Shevchuk. He's gone. Please, the National MP Moses is transferring the right to speak to the national deputy Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u155	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, radio listeners! The party “For Ukraine!” today is concerned about the statements by Viktor Yanukovic himself, which conflict with the legislation and national interests of our state. Without becoming president, the leader of the opposition today starts handing out advances to the right-to-left, particularly to our neighbour Russia, giving this as a desire to make a good neighbourly relationship with this country. I think Janukovic's advisors should remind him that not only Ukraine, but all the neighbours of the Russian Federation have problems with it, that's Poland, Belarus, Japan, Latvia, other states. And it's not that they're so bad, it's that it's Russian aggressive foreign policy that doesn't make it better. And that's why these relationships have been difficult today, we remember, not only for today's President, but we remember, for the presidency of Kravczuk or Kuchma, I can also remind Tuzla of all those who have forgotten, gas problems, solutions to the Sevastopol of the Russian Parliamentarians and so forth. Janukovic should learn to distinguish neighborhoods from the betrayal of national interests. I think it should be. Ukrainian legislation does not presuppose first, but prohibits the transfer to the property of rent or the management of any gas transport system, any gas transport system and its elements, and this is by no chance, our GPS is profitable, it is one of the key assets of Ukraine, and by losing it, we can lose, indeed, independence and Europe will feel it and suffer it or not the most. So today, Janukovič's statements about the need to participate in the construction of Ukraine's gas pipelines are not at all worth commenting on. We should also remind Viktor Yanukovic that the Constitution prohibits the establishment of foreign military bases in the territory of our state. And what today is said to be the preservation of the Russian Navy's foundation after 2017 is also a direct inclusion in the Constitution of Ukraine. And there is certainly no Russian problem in Ukraine today. It is artificially invented, and it is strange that now the writings break around this problem. I want to remind you that there are no pressures in Ukraine today in Russian alone. Look at our TV show, look at the talk show: What language are they in? And finally, remember all those TV broadcasters who came from Moscow, because they can't work there on live TV, and remember, and today they're working right on the territory of Ukraine, and in the Russian language that we understand. But no pressures in the east or the west again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u156	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u157	So in closing, I want to warn Viktor Yanukovich about trying to trade sovereignty. If Janukovic underestimates the Ukrainian people, he may soon be deeply disappointed. I'm sure of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u158	Please, National Deputy Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u159	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. On the eve of this year's elections, I worked in five areas of the Lviv region: Brodivsky, Radehovsky, Buzeksky, Premysljanski and Pustomitovski. In those areas, the vote for Julius Timoshenko was between 90 and 91 percent. And from this high rostrum, I want to thank you, the distinguished constituency-electors who have shown both such activity and such a social consciousness. This amazing high score in the districts where I worked is explained by the fact that my constituent countrymen do not explicitly accept the programming intentions that I have declared before the elections and in my programming documents our main opponent, Janukovic. And the thing is, these aren't just intentions. There are specific consequences for these purposes. Speaking with his first, after the elections, Russian speech, Yanukovic gave the occasion to such a scandalous Russian policy as Vladimir Žerenowski to divide Ukraine and to leave, in fact, Ukraine only four areas: Lvivsky, Ivano-Frankivsky, Ternopilski and Zakarpatski, and everything else he claims should return immediately to Russia. It's the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear countrymen, the Cabinet of Ministers will work and work until a new parliamentary coalition is established in the Supreme Council. Because the government is formed, not by the President, but by the new Constitution, by the Supreme Council. I think that as long as we keep our current government, once again our countryman, Minister of Education, John Vakarczuk, we can be sure that we will not destroy the Ukrainian language anyway. But if, God forbid, some of our colleagues in this room are tempted to make promises and form a new coalition, they will not even need to adopt this language law that the regionals have proposed. The Cabinet of Ministers' rulings on testing throughout Ukraine in Ukrainian will be overturned, separate testing of such an object as Ukrainian and, of course, Ukraine's rise will be complete. I don't think that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u160	The People’s Deputy, Matthew, gives his minutes for Zybenko’s speech, Peter Stepanovich. Please have six minutes. Please, Peter Stepanovich, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u161	Thank you. Petr Cibenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, President of the Council of the Veterans Organization of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, respected veterans! Just over a month ago, Ukraine, we all entered the new year 2010. This year promises to be remarkable in many ways. But the most important event of the year, of course, will be the 65-year anniversary of the great victory over fascism. This is a key event on a planetary scale. This victory has become the main cause of life for a whole generation of Soviet people. Millions of our compatriots have paid for the world’s deliverance from the brown plague of fascism by health, maimed by fate, and many by their own lives. And the State, the power in their debt to them for this human feat. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that the youngest of the direct participants in this war, namely, those involved in hostilities, has been disabled by war for 83 years now. They can't wait forever. With this in mind, the organization of Ukrainian veterans has repeatedly requested the first persons of the State to announce this anniversary of 2010 as the year of the veterans of the Great Homeland War. Unfortunately, however, the first persons of the State did not want to hear the appeals of the 11 million-million-dollar organization of Ukrainian veterans. That is why Ukraine's veterans are hopefully aware of the work of the Council of Heads of State of the Commonwealth of Independent States, which has begun to coordinate the efforts of the Commonwealth countries, to unify the legislation by preparing for a glorious anniversary under the motto we have won together. The last summit of Heads of State was held in Chisinau on 9 October 2009. It outlined a plan of major events for the preparation and celebration of the 65th anniversary of the Great National War of 1941-1945. There was also a concerted decision to declare 2010 as the year of the veterans of the Great Homeland War. All these documents bear the signature of the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk. But by signing these international instruments and entering Ukraine, Mr. Yushchenko not only did not issue an order, but also simply silenced the signing of these most important international instruments. This is the moral, moral and piety of the head of State. In order for his fellow presidents, the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Independent States not to look like a “white crow”, he signed his signature, but also with his finger, to ensure that these commitments are not met. And today, I would like to turn from this rostrum to the guarantor of the Ukrainian Constitution: “Mr. President, if you have at least one drop of conscience left, if you have at least one drop of respect for veterans who saved Europe and the world from fascism and thus give you the opportunity to manage Ukraine in the last five years, immediately issue a decree declaring 2010 as veterans of the Great Homeland War. In doing so, you will repay at least a fraction of your debts to the veterans. There's still time and chance. Do this small, good and holy work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u162	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u163	Dear voters of Ukraine! I went up to this rostrum to explain in public the two things that present a large Ukrainian bold question mark. First. I was just as shocked as you, the honourable voters, that in fact all foreign observers and our observers, once literally on the first day, said in a leniency, "Well, that's all right, that's all right." I'll tell you honestly, on this, be it messy, but also a beautiful hundredth district where I'm fixed, by the way, it was pretty much all quiet. Because if we were to call 2004 when the fake was done with this, I would say, sorry, from the Russian use of the word, "stupid," as the famous Ukrainian poet Chekhov would say, there were various violations. That's when the head of the district commission could close the ballots and voter lists -- and run away for two or three days, and no one could find her. It's when they've been whispering about all the branches of the razor-headed, when it's all been done boldly, openly, with gang-related gambling, I'd say. This was, of course, very evident in 2004. This year, as has been discovered a little later, literally now, these days, everything has been done, I would say, much more carefully, in the paws “higher”. And because of this, of course, what could be seen by foreign observers? Could they point out that there was an extra voter list besides the main voter list? And this is not forbidden by law. But on that second list, it seems, there were half of those on the first list. Well, could our observers or foreign observers, let's say, take it and notice it? Never. Could foreign observers spot people on the street that drive by by bus? Could they have noticed that? No, they used to sit in the neighborhoods and stuff. As a result, I feel that they have been deceived. That's why we have today, and we have that, in fact, the world society, you know, is so lenient: everything was fine, no one was beating, no shootings were, like in 2004, and so on. It's a colossal deception. Today, I say again, I was also one of those who thought, well, yes, so be it. But today, when we have very specific facts, when it's absolutely clear that it's all just been hidden, so understand us. The second question. Everyone's asking why Julia Timoshenko now, there, doesn't say that she better leave everything and only wins. No, it's not. We cannot leave Ukraine at a crossroads. By no means can we leave her at the crossroads today. And the last thesis I'd like to say is we're saying, when there's 1-2 percent in America, so these are two are the same. And this is about two different civilizations, two different directions for Ukraine's development. Finally, they ask: Why does Julia Volodymyrna remain silent? I'm explaining, she is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u164	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u165	She is silent to prevent Victor Fedorovich from reading something from Chekov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u166	Weaving Roman Volodymyrovich. None. Good Eugene Dmitrovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u167	Good boy, Timoshenko Street. To date, we are carefully observing and analysing the revitalization of the United States of America, their southern European allies on the intentions of deploying an American missile defence system in Romanian territory. There are some very important aspects of this problem that apply directly to Ukraine. First, geostrategically, Ukraine is between two opposite neighbours: the Russian Federation and Romania. This situation makes it clear that Ukraine is in danger of continuing political tension by finding and getting involved in the conflict between the two parties. We have to consider the following, because the U.S. missile defense system provides for the deployment of SM300 interceptors. BlockOne-B ground-based, along with the anti-aircraft missile interceptor system of other elements of this ABM system, and the laws of armed conflict certainly require the other side to target their means of destruction in the missile-based areas, makes all of Ukraine's adjacent territory vulnerable and endangers the lives of its citizens living in this area. The Assistant Secretary of State of the United States, Crowley, stated that the elements of the U.S. missile system planned to be deployed in Romania would be located in the Black Sea as well. This means that there is a danger for Ukraine that the Russian Federation will in any way try to establish the Black Sea fleet in Sevastopol on an untimely basis, and this in turn entails the danger of getting involved in any military conflict on the side of the Russian Federation. The deployment of elements of the American AO system in the Black Sea, in the territorial waters of Romania, makes it vulnerable to missiles from the other side, exclusively the sea economic zone of Ukraine. There is a danger of shipping, fishing in this zone, gas and oil mining along the Ukrainian shelf. In this way, we can draw conclusions. In the event of the unfolding of the U.S. A. system in Romania, Ukraine becomes a hostage of the military conflict between the United States and the Russian Federation in its foreign policy. Ukraine needs a modern national security system that will establish order in the state and direct its efforts to maintain the stability of processes, to realize national interests in close cooperation with other European and world nations. As you analyze the above, you can formulate suggestions on the problem. First. The Government of Ukraine to intensify its inter-State efforts to promote regional and global security stability, ensure the integrity of existing borders and the territorial integrity of the State. Ukraine at the global level should immediately initiate an international phase-out of the proliferation of nuclear weapons and weapons of nuclear injury in Europe, the creation of conditions for the declaration of the Black Sea by a zone prohibited from carrying out military activities, and the withdrawal for good of the military fleets of all the Black Sea States from its waters, the creation of a coordinated coastal protection system by the Black Sea, the establishment of a single inter-State vessel traffic control system in the Black Sea and an international system for the conservation of the environment and the protection of the Black Sea environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u168	National Deputy Carmazin instead of National Deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national MPs, our constituents! I wanted to draw your attention to what laws, decrees, or decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are for. Evidently, they are accepted to be carried out by all in all the territory of the State. That's why they publish, and that's why there are branches of power and all the power to make these decisions. We can see that many laws and the Constitution are not being implemented. I would like to draw your attention today to the fact that the decree adopted by the Supreme Council on 17 December 2009 on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the situation of the arbitrary capture of illegal land in the city of Simferopol of residential, office and entertainment centres, as well as the inactivity of law enforcement authorities, which has highlighted the latter, the inactivity of law enforcement agencies, has been adopted and published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Despite the fact that the Supreme Council had been identified and proposed by the President of Ukraine in connection with the established commission of inquiry, which indicated an increase in the Autonomous Republic of the Crimea of Local Power with representatives of criminal business and the inaction of law enforcement agencies, the Security and Defence Council had to consider a situation that had formed and implemented measures aimed at preventing the exacerbation of conflicts on the inter-ethnic and inter-faith ground. We didn't get it, we didn't get any Radbez meetings, and Radrez only signed off on behalf of the deputy head that they sent to the Attorney General's Office. This is not the case when it comes to the threat of national security because of the increase in crime, business, and local authorities. Moreover, there was a question of hearing information from the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service, and the Minister of Internal Affairs. There's no such information. I'm talking to the head of the Security Service, now Valentina Najajchenka. Dear Valentin Aleksandrovich! The Security Service function is to prevent an increase in local authorities with criminality, you know very well that this has happened in Crimea territory, and you need to prepare information and take measures. And I ask you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, as chairman of the session, to consider my appeal now as a parliamentary request to the head of the Parliament, Vladimir Litvin, to the head of the Security Service, to the Attorney General of Medvedzk, and to the acting Minister of the Interior, Yuri Lucenka. Please take steps to ensure that criminality does not then cause the dead to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u170	Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u171	Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich, Ukrainian Company faction. Dear Chairman, distinguished voters! I was approached by owners of PSC AF “Synowka” cooperatives in the village of Sinyovka in the district of Sumsk. The point is that the head of the local private agricultural cooperative “Sinivka”, the citizen of Gumindiev, became the head of the cooperative illegally. This comrade has acquired 585 members of the cooperative's property in a fraudulent fraud method, owns, manages, trades foreign property, acquired hard agricultural work for many years. Humindeev had never been a member of a cooperative, had no property. He was voted for by only 35 workers, who were neither members of the cooperative nor had any introductory or material food, but were employed. The founders of the 247 - year - old cooperative were not invited to the congregations where Gulmindeev was elected as head, leaving them without reason to vote without the decision of the congregations, leading to the rank of associate members of the cooperative. Humindeev literally peddled the property of the pensioners, forcing him to write an application allegedly for the exit from the cooperative, and then for trusted peasants, two signatures were signed, a note on the issue of the property and an invoice for the transfer of this property to P.P. Gumindeev. In addition, property was transferred without the consent of the dispersion commission, without the decisions of the general congregations, without an act of acceptance of the transfer and without a lease on the right of use. Contracts for the use of property between owners of rations have not yet been concluded and why they should be concluded. But in this way, Humindieuve has moved almost all of the property that he uses safely, trades, exploits himself, mocking indignant farmers and animals with many years of working hours. On the basis of the foreign spiders Humindeev created two of his private cooperatives, which now employs two official workers, all animals, horses, pigs, techniques, transportation, buildings. Humindeev declared his property, never allowing anyone. When the people’s patience came to an end, the founders of the cooperative gathered general congregations and formed a committee of joint owners of rations. The issue of the condition of property in the agro-firm and the illegal allocation of property to some owners was raised. The same congregations set up an inventory commission and recommended an audit. The work of this commission was repeatedly hindered by Humindew himself. On the part of the district branch of law enforcement authorities, legal measures are not taken to establish order and to bring the guilty to justice. Therefore, I ask you to consider this statement as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u172	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear radios and television audiences! I'd like to add, there was a discussion about the presence. No, of course, the representative of the Party of the Regions is here. But the second part of this is that no one's registered it's true. This is the first time that I have seen the last “differences” when the Supreme Council’s rostrum ceased to be a platform for the struggle for the presidential mandate – a corresponding loss of interest in a very important part of the people’s communication with the electorate. Because of course this is not communication. I'd like to highlight a few things. Now I have to keep answering the questions of journalists, questions of fellow Members of Parliament. Why do we not take steps? I'm not going to count what? But most of all, as deputies, we are as a delegated government in Ukraine today. And it's very simple, in fact, the Presidential elections don't oblige the government to do anything, they oblige the presidential forces that are already forming or forming here, in the event of victory, to do coalitions and form. And it doesn't matter what kind of power it is, it doesn't matter what result of the election it's going to be, it's officially announced when it's going to be and what it's going to be. You have the ability to form a coalition, form it. And don't blame us for your impotence in this regard. With regard to selective forgeries themselves. Now I've got information, literally, recently, that in Crimea, where we've been, where we've been through the courts, we've been able to get a count of the votes in the districts, in Crimea, the difference between the recorded result and the count is 8 percent. You don't have to say which candidate this 8 percent was taken from and who was added. This once again confirms our sense, which was later embodied in claims and complaints, in the facts confirmed that in those regions, in those areas of Ukraine, where the Party of Regions, their opponents had full authority, that's where they faked. It's not even worth discussing and discussing, it's just worth waiting for a court decision. Forgeries were massive. But according to the law in force, unfortunately, in the event of any winner of the election race, the Central Election Commission declares. But our right and our duty as citizens to challenge the decision of a candidate we cannot recognize as Ukrainian President. Because it's already started, here the colleagues have been talking, there's already been an attack on the Ukrainian language, a statement already made. A photo has not yet been taped in the mandate, but claims against the Ukrainian language, against the Ukrainian state, and against Ukraine as an international subject have already begun. That's why I'm calling for backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u174	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u175	I urge you to support our efforts to establish honesty in the elections. I stress once again that we are ready to take any decision of the court. But we're counting on our opponents to take any decision of the court that would not be bad for them. The main thing is to make it fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-02-12-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, the election is over. We have a choice, not in court, but in Ukraine. The next plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, February 16.
