ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:21]] A total of 398 national deputies were registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, the proposal is to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. [[on financial security for the activities of the United Nations]] Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote in favour of addressing this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:03:47]] For 228 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Finance Minister Ribak Sergey Alexanderovich. Coroner Mikola Ivanovich, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. Please. Where's the government representative? Mikola Ivanovich Derkach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Budget Committee will consider a bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers to amend the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. The bill proposes to identify the State Agency for National Project Management as the main budget manager and to set a budget allocation of 24.7 million dollars for two budget programmes: first, the management and management of national projects in the range of 4.7 million dollars, the provision of agency equipment; second, the development of technical and economic justifications for national projects in the amount of 20 million dollars to ensure the preparation of technical and economic justifications, priority national projects. The funds indicated are necessary to ensure that the Agency is empowered and that strategically important national projects identified by the President of Ukraine are prepared as a priority for economic reforms. The increase in expenditure from the budget is proposed to provide revenue to the state budget from part of the net income of state-owned unitary enterprises and their associations, which are excluded from the budget and dividends charged to holdings in statutory capitals, with an increase of 24.7 million dollars each year. [[income]] In January-September 2010, operational figures exceeded the target for this period by 417 million dollars or 32.8 percent. The proposed bill is balanced with regard to State budget figures on income and expenditure. The Committee on Budget Affairs decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the results of the first reading of the draft bill as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u3	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion if you need to. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yuri Odarchenko passes on the right to speak to Mikola Tomenko and then Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw your attention to a serious problem, because when we're living in a difficult socio-economic state and we're discussing the issue as a new state institution -- a state institution -- we're allocating 25 million to this serious issue. I'm worried, frankly, because I'm listening to the president, the prime minister, the vice-premiers who say they're going to reduce the number of officials daily. Now two positions of vice-premiers have been cut, and no officials in Kabmin have been cut short. Now, today you want to vote in favour of creating a new state structure, which, for two months, it's already November, until we vote until we print. So to pay and maintain a two-month structure, 4 million 700,000 and 20 million to develop projects. It would seem to a country like us, when we're up to seven dollars, give 25 million, it's a question of what kind of classics come into this structure, that the Supreme Council has dropped everything and given them 25 million? As it turns out, there are two national deputies there who have recently changed their political line and said that they have waited their entire lives for President Viktor Yanukovic to arrive. True, someone was waiting in Yushchenk’s apparatus, someone else in the other apparatus. We were expecting him to come. I am asked: How much does it cost to change the political position in Parliament? Divide 25 million into two national deputies, you'll get the price of a deputy who changed his position. So I'm, frankly, in an incomprehensible state that we can't have those structures that work in ministries, analyze and make investment proposals? We have, at the public level, we can't discuss what investment projects a country should develop? We need to do this in a new ministry and give 25 million just because a few deputies have changed their general and political line. I think it's wrong, it's harmful, and it's that we're setting precedents as deputies who have changed their political position, we're creating an additional ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u5	Vladimir Stretovic, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u6	Thank you. Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I share the position of the first speaker that 25 million for such a meagre lack of public finances is a very great luxury for the Ministry. And this isn't the Ministry, this is the National Project Commission. For two months, they're actually going to be scattered and they're not going to say that it's going to be under control, that it's going to be given great public attention. In fact, it is about whether this function should be performed by the leading ministries and state committees that now exist in the structure of government: whether it relates to oil pipelines or whether it is the Korean version of “Taxie-2012” – what is being implemented by this agency. But this is what the entire army of officials is working on. It's completely unclear why a government execution requires such a large sum just to support what we see on the charts today, no matter what the proposals show, and what kind of national projects that we're going to support for what? Is it going to be the way it's always going to be? We're going to spend money, we're going to spend money, we're going to give it to officials, we're going to give it to officials, and it's not going to work out as a result of these national projects. I want to tell you that I can't come to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Azarov, for six months, in order to speak on a subject that is state-wide. The Romadanova Academy of Medical Sciences cannot complete capital repairs for two years. And the one who visited this medical facility could see the conditions under which our fellow countrymen today undergo treatment for serious illness. At the same time, they need 25 million dollars to complete their capital repairs. Is it not appropriate that these 25 million dollars should not be given to officials to dissipate, dissipate, but rather to allocate to the Romadanov Clinical Institute of Neurosurgery for the completion of capital repairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u7	Taras Cranville, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, I looked at this project, and I wanted to sing, "We can't do much, we can't do it" and say, "Jushchenko, yes!" This is the law, let's call it our names: State budget funding for the “Pora” party and nothing else. Because there really is a council with the President who's developing these strategic projects. There's Deputy Prime Minister Boris Kolesnikov, who's in charge of this job in Kabmin, there are ministries that are required to do accounts. No special commission we have to fund with this kind of heavy money will actually do anything. This, I say again, is the financing of the “Pora” party. We're back in 2004, and I can cheer the boys, and they've stood up for Maidan!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, I'm voting and I'm asking for your attention. Proposal for a Committee on the Adoption of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010, registration number 7207, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. [[on financial security for the activities of the project]] Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[16:12:55]] For 246 The law is passed. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 174, "Clock of July Timoshenko" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 8, Communists – 26, "Clock of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 19. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being addressed by the U.I. to convene a bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine on the holding of the next election of the national deputies of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the local councils and the rural, rural, urban, and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Registration number 7265. The rapporteur is the head of the temporary special commission, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich. Now a temporary special commission has made such a recommendation, it's serving as the main committee, so we're going to look at it. I'd like some respectable colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, according to the current Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are considering the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process. When the Supreme Council of Ukraine discusses this issue, it shall vote on the inclusion in the agenda and the referral to the Constitutional Court, all in accordance with the current Rules. The reporter is Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, head of TSK and co-reporter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, I am for those of you who do not hear our commotion with members of the friendly factions who will now support this bill. I answer that at this morning's meeting, we have decided to cancel the decision on the preliminary consideration of this bill, as appropriate rules of violation of the Rules have been adopted. And now registered, 230 national deputies, legislators of the legislative initiative have registered Bill No.7265, a draft law amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the holding of the next election of Ukrainian national deputies, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, village and city heads. On Friday we spoke to you about this matter. Let me literally focus your attention on some of the main aspects of the need for adoption of the bill. In short, the need to adopt this bill, namely to amend the Constitution of Ukraine, is dictated by the need to unify the terms of authority of the authorities as State authorities, that is, the representative bodies and the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and accordingly the President of Ukraine as one of the branches of government and local self-government. You know, after the Constitutional Court's decision, after the Constitutional Court's decision, the rules that had been in force before that moment of the Constitution had now returned to different terms. For some subjects, a five - year term has been set, and for others four years. In order to unify all of this in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and 230 people's deputies propose to make these changes, and they have authorized me to be a reporter on this issue, including the interim commission of inquiry, considering this issue at its meeting, has also entrusted me, on behalf of the TSK, to speak with a co-reporter. What changes are being proposed? What changes are being proposed? They can, on condition, be divided into four parts. First of all, it's time limits. Once again, for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the terms of office are set for 5 years, and for the current Constitution 4, we are amending Article 76. The same terms apply that for 5 years of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, we are amending Article 136 of the Constitution. Rural, rural, urban, district, district councils -- also 5 years of term of office, 5 years of these local councils -- are amended accordingly by 141 articles of the Constitution. The same applies to rural and urban heads -- the term, they are chosen for five years, more faithfully, their terms of office for five years, so we're going to fix it in the amendments to article 141. And we're also going to unify, we're going to unify, and we're going to give the first answer to questions about the term of office of deputies, the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the local councils. Previously, in the existing constitutions, both in force and in the amended ones, it was not established when the powers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of the Supreme Council and the local councils were suspended. We propose in articles 136 and 141 that we write down such a provision that “the termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the rural, rural, urban, district and district council is the result of the suspension of the powers of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the deputies of relevant councils”. I reiterate that this is necessary in order for us not to have to hold a permanent election and choose local councils for terms that exceed the five-year term, as it were, because then those who choose, as you know, in the next election also, well, claim that they are for five years. You and I give a clear and unambiguous answer. What happens is that where out of turn elections are held, those who are held in consecutive elections will stop when the Council, which has been elected for five years, ceases to be authorized. He was elected for six months or for two years, not five years, but as many years as the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea will be authorized by a local council. The third direction of change that we make to the Constitution of Ukraine is to give an answer to when elections are taking place. To the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine is recorded in article 77, which takes place on the last Sunday of October of the 5th year. In article 103, we're talking about the election of the President of Ukraine on the last Sunday of March of the 5th year. In article 136, we are amending that the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is holding an election on the last Sunday of October 5th of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which I stress is being chosen in the next election. What we discussed with you when we discussed these issues earlier. And there is also an amendment to article 141 to the fact that local councils, village councils, city heads are also elected on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year for the respective council or for the corresponding head elected in the next election. And the fourth, which is quite principled, important and necessary. And, in principle, that's what led us to cancel our previous decision, and today we are looking at a new legislative initiative by the national MPs to give a clear answer to the main question, when the next parliamentary election is to take place, and when the next presidential election is to take place. It is therefore proposed that the dates of the subsequent elections should be clearly fixed after the restoration of the Constitution of Ukraine as of 28 June 1996, as decided by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on 30 September 2010. We propose to add to the “Transitional positions”, section XV of the “Transitional positions” of the current Constitution 15 and 16 paragraphs. In 15 paragraphs, note that the next election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes place on the last Sunday of October 2012. And in the 16th paragraph, the new 16th paragraph of section “Transitional Regulations” of the Constitution states that the presidential election of Ukraine takes place on the last Sunday of March 2015. Here are the respectable colleagues, the essence of the changes proposed by the 230 people's deputies to bring them into the current Constitution. There was a meeting of a temporary special commission during the break. By an absolute majority of the votes other than the two that have been retained, the absolute majority of the members of the Commission, apart from the two, have decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be included in the agenda of today's Supreme Council meeting and to refer to the Constitutional Court for consideration, and to submit a bill to the Constitutional Court to amend the Constitution of Ukraine on the holding of the next election of the national deputies of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, city, registration number 7265. [[They asked to name their names – colleagues Knazevitch and Strutović]] Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u11	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Report completed. If you need to ask questions, please write down. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u12	Please hand over Anatoly to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u13	Anatoly Matvienko, please microphone. The faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u14	Ukrainian Republican Party, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” block. Adam Ivanovich, 5 years of authority - March and 6 years of authority - March. You're saving the President by writing down a strict rule in 15 years. Well, you got it. Even though I warned you you were taking the stupid one, last time. Now we've figured it out. But please tell me, what will happen to the Supreme Council and the President if the presidential election is announced? The Supreme Council does not meet for 30 days. And then in 10 years, we're going to announce the next election. The president resigned or for other reasons gave up the early elections. And you write, 15 and 12. What will we do with the Constitution? How much will we manipulate the Basic Law for the sake of, if you'll excuse me, individual politicians who want to have a good life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u15	Thank you. Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. I'm surprised to hear words that are not parliamentary. That's the first one. And the others. You must have missed what I was talking about. We're setting a date for the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine's election. The queues. On the other hand, wait, and the next election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or the subsequent election of the President of Ukraine regulates other articles of the current Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u16	The current Constitution is coordinated and answered. We're only talking about when the next election is taking place. The next election may take place if the circumstances you discussed arise.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, please calm down. It's about the next election under the circumstances. The next election is regulated by other positions, which is understandable to all. Dear colleagues, who are not being appointed, will be able to write an application in March 2011 and go for a walk. Please, Gregory Smythech, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich. Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. I have two questions for you as for the head of a temporary special committee. Please tell me, did your special commission not investigate the issue of the early elections of the Supreme Council, which were illegally held in 2007? That's the first question. And the second question. How does the temporary special commission relate to the question of the argument that our citizens expect presidential and parliamentary elections to be held in one year? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u19	Thank you. As a result, the temporary special commission did not investigate. No, because we don't have that kind of authority. When we created a temporary special commission, the Supreme Council clearly defined our authority. The mandate of the temporary special commission is to act as the main committee for amending the legislative acts to be adopted in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision on the unconstitutionality of the Act amending the Constitution under number 2222-4. We don't have any other powers. That's the first one. The other one. With regard to the idea that this is about what it would be worth and, indeed, it is logical to have all the election campaigns in one year, not one day, but once again, to hold elections of the President of the State, to hold elections of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in one year, and in the same year to hold elections of local authorities, including all local self-government bodies, this idea has the right to life.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u20	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u21	discussed for one reason. According to article 145 of the Rules, a temporary special commission or committee dealing with the matter is entitled only to conclude whether everything is properly prepared for consideration. We can't make any changes with you just after we have reached the conclusion of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u22	Thank you. Andrew Pavlovsky, BUT faction. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u23	Andrey Pavlovski, the “Fatherland” party. Please give the floor to Deputy Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u24	Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u25	Thank you. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Adam Ivanovich, I'll ask you a rhetorical question. Well, you don't have a talking chapter. In the Rules, which provides for the procedure for amending the Constitution and for complying with all the rules of the Rules? Is that not for you? I'm rhetorical about asking you to think about it. That's the problem, given what's going on right now. It's a specific question. Adam Ivanovich, here you go again. Well, I don't think it's a very long bill. The MPs of the local authorities are elected for four years in accordance with the current bill. You're making changes that MPs are elected for five years. So why didn't you set a date for the election of deputies to the local authorities? Please tell me a specific question, because I don't think it's specific questions for you all the time. Well, that's how you answer, so let's talk, not really.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u26	Sergei Volodymyrovich, thank you for the characteristics of my response. Believe me, I answer no worse than you ask a question. Not worse! That's the first one. The second question. If the bill is inconvenient, no one prevents you from writing a better bill, collecting at least one hundred and forty-nine signatures of the people's deputies or with his initiative to contact the President of Ukraine, he also has the right to go out with a similar bill and submit a new bill. Long bill! And the third. As far as the election is concerned, I think it's perfectly understandable. We say that the elections of the local authorities take place on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year of these authorities, whether city, village, village, district, district council, or city, village, village head.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u27	Dmitry Vetwicki, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u28	Please pass the word to Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u29	Sergey Sobolev, BUT faction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u30	Actually, like Mr. Sass, I don't have any questions. I've read this bill -- and I see the knees shaking in the drafters of this bill, so as not to go to the elections under that raped Constitution that you've put through the Constitutional Court. So do, at least, these Constitutions! It says "March 2011" – go to the March 2011 elections! And you, Mr. Litwin, can't tell who to write applications to in March or who people won't pick. This will determine the people who will vote in March 2011. So the question is, you're going to be in an illegal way for a year and a half to continue to empower yourself, your loved ones, and the President. That's why this bill won't matter, because the next vote can only be during the election campaign, February 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u31	I thank you for the evaluation, the wrong assessment of what's going on in the state. Because, unfortunately, I don't refer to you as someone who doesn't know the law, and you know very well that in September 2007, today the Supreme Council was elected not for four years, but for five years. And you know very well that no decision, no laws have a reverse effect, and no one has the right to suspend the five - year term for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u32	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u33	Dear Adam Ivanovich, you know, you're not afraid of difficulties – it scares uncertainty. And today, a group of political troublemakers are trying to sow confusion among the people. I was, uh, meeting with the voters. They say, "We have chosen you for five years. Who's trying to take away the President from him for the first time since he started? Who is trying to get us out of one election, because only one election will end, draw other elections and shake the country like a pear, and soon the country will not remain, yes. Therefore, it is the right decision, yes, the constitutional one, that the people are the source of power. The people gave the mandate to the deputies and to the President for five years, so everything else is being adjusted with the opinion of the people, absolutely right. So one question: the second reading will probably be after the new year, after the next session, so I understand, Adam Ivanovich, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u34	According to the 13th chapter of the Constitution, where it refers to how the Constitution is being amended, the Supreme Council, if today, and I am convinced that it can. Today, let's put it in the agenda and put it to the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, and we ask you in the Order that we recommend, to support the Constitutional Court to consider this application without delay. I'm sure he'll give a positive answer. I don't think that's a good idea. We don't narrow down the constitutional rights of citizens. After that, you and I should be able to make a decision at this session on the prior approval of 226 votes and wait for the next session. The next session opens in February 1, 2011. We'll have a seventh session with you. At the eighth session of the Sixth Call, we will have reason to vote constitutionally with the necessary number of votes – 300 to make it the norm of a valid Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u35	Yes, thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Time's up, please sit down. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to discussing this issue. I'm asking you to sign up for factions, factions. Please write. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board, Vetwicki, Knazevitch and Chečetov? Now, if you'd like to sign up for the national MPs of Ukraine. How much will we take to the show? Dear colleagues, come on from factions and deputies for half an hour. Is it gonna be okay? [[B in m in s a l in]] I mean, 30 minutes, yeah. People's deputies, please. Names. Yeah, they put it on the board. Let's get to the debate. Dmitry Vetwicki, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Sergey Sass has the floor. Ruslan Knazevich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u36	Thank you. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, the Fatherland Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to draw your attention once again to the grave violation of the Supreme Council Rules when introducing and reviewing the bill for consideration by the Supreme Council. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to article 145 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, which is entitled “Preparation for the consideration of the inclusion of a bill amending the Constitution and the order of the day of the Supreme Council and the order of the continuation of its work”. This is part two of the main committee, in this case, the commission should ensure that a whole of 15 items are implemented, with a number of actions to be taken before the bill reaches the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. True, I do not agree with Adam Ivanovich that there were certain procedural nuances about the bill being reconsidered today. The point is, in the riots, the special commission reviewed the bill, and when the decision was made in the article, in particular, 103, it predicted that the presidential election of Ukraine would take place in March of the fifth year. This, if counted, means that the President’s next election will take place in March of the fifth year, the fourteenth year of office, thus reducing the President’s mandate to eight months. Seeing if they had received appropriate instructions from the Bank, they returned. But again, look at the disadvantage they have left behind in 103 articles on the subject. Which is for five years, which is in March of the fifth year, and in paragraph 16, it was written that in March of the fifteenth year. Ladies and gentlemen, the unarmed eye shows that these positions are in conflict with article 103 of the Constitution. How you will get out of this situation is very difficult to understand. Next question. Adam Ivanovich, I didn't say it was an accident. asked you a question: How are the elections to the local authorities going to take place? If you're changing what the organ is. to the local council. National deputies to local authorities, city heads are elected for five years and rural, rural, and as a result, elections are not recorded in the Constitution. Then we need to answer these questions. So in this case, the terrible event that always occurs in the Supreme Council is that what is done quickly is born blindly. And I don't rule out that tomorrow after the new ones, the changes will be accepted. Let's end this masquerade as long as we can continue this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u37	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u38	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Well, Sergey Volodymyrovich made it a little easier for me because he said a lot of things. I'll tell you, in fact, when the reason for cancelling our decision was that, in the course of the discussion of this issue, the previous changes were made, I was, if you recall, the author of those changes, because we missed a very important word, "the elections" for the local authorities. I am grateful for the meeting room that agreed. And I would, frankly, even agree, really, to vote on these things, because here I can agree, we're going to a certain violation of article 146. But believe me, we did it for the great good, not the opposite. But the thing is, if this had been restored in an editorial that was really voted for the first time. There are also two additional points concerning the subsequent corresponding amendments to the Transitional Regulations concerning the next presidential and other parliamentary elections. And I'm asking, where are the local elections, why didn't you mention them in the Transitional? It was not mentioned that these changes would not take effect until then. Because at best they will become effective in the first decade of February of the following year. With regard to parliamentary elections, why is this written? Because until then, we're going to have parliamentary elections, and I'm going to remind you again. Moreover, according to the Elections Act and the CLTC Act, the CLTC is already obliged to make budgetary proposals for such elections this week. And she's going to have to do it and she's going to do it because 22 numbers she's going to declare the election campaign. It's nowhere to be found, the members of the C.V.C.C.E. have already eaten for the seventh and sixth years, when they're all on the sidelines, and they're being dragged by prosecutors. This will be no more; they will fulfill their constitutional obligation. In view of these circumstances, I simply remind you that these things really conflict with one another. What's more, if we're talking about the sixth year of the President's mandate, I'm going to remind you that when the local elections were already being held by the Constitutional Court, and there we wrote that the term of authority of the local elections was five years, local councils, and in the Transitional elections it was decided that it was March of the following year, the Constitutional Court had already said that it was unconstitutional, because transitional positions could not regulate the body of the Constitution itself, which clearly defines these things. And it is no longer necessary, as Vladimir Mikhailovich says, to go to the conundrum to know that this time the same will be said by the Constitutional Court, because it cannot change its legal position so radically. In view of these circumstances, I would ask, however, once we have done so, the second time nothing will harm you again to make changes, re-registration, and this process can only be improved, because there is no limit to improvement, as shown by the session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u39	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, factions of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u40	Dear colleagues! It has been beautifully said that we can change our position with you, but we cannot change the attitude of the people. If you read the Constitution carefully, it is written in white, at least in glasses, without any points, that the source and the bearer of power is the people. The people either directly assert the Constitution in a referendum or the people can adopt the Constitution, according to Anatoly Sergeyevich, by electing members of the constitutional assembly, or the people can adopt the Constitution again through us, the deputies he elects. In other words, the foundation of power is the people. We are at the shoulders of the people. All power. And power. He's delegating his powers to us. And when the people said their word by choosing five years, giving the mandate of trust to both the President and the Supreme Council, everything else is derivative, you can think about it. The people said their word, throwing ballots at the President's election and throwing ballots at the urn in the parliamentary elections. Someone he raised on a political olympus, someone he sent to a political dump, I understand, in a political dump it's uncomfortable to sit there and dirty, and stinks, and teases, and so on. But sit down, gentlemen, that's where the people sent you, people! Let's move on. You meet people, people say absolutely, well, do you have two curves in your head? What you're doing is you're trying to get the country into the next election by violating our choice, violating our will. And thus, we see that, as power has now begun to put order in the country and now, in order to break it off again, to engage all the power structures in the next elections, let us push the March elections into Parliament. This is pure political adventure, because it really smells like such corporate party narrow interests here. So I think what Adam Ivanovich represented today is really a document that has formalized the will of the people. We are fulfilling, we can change positions, but the will of the people can only be changed by the people until they have given reason. I propose to support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, the word is given by the Zabarsky People's Deputy instead of Czermorov, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Zabzaluk will be next. Is there a Zabarsky? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u42	I think it is necessary to put an end to the whims of some opposition representatives and to act strictly under the Constitution. That is why we are now considering this issue in order to comply with the Constitution on preliminary constitutional control and to submit the bill to the Constitutional Court, which will decide whether these constitutional changes are in conformity with the Constitution or not? After that, everything will be clear and clear and there will be no curves.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u43	Roman Zabzaluk, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, next will be Sergey Mishchenko, please. BobiIov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u44	Dear colleagues! In fact, we need to look very carefully and carefully at what we will be sending to the Constitutional Court. And there's really no need for emotion, let's look logically at things that might happen after the adoption or adoption of this bill. Look what we promised and all the political forces before the local elections, the elections that will be on October 31st. 5 years for local communities, members of local communities, heads of rural communities, village heads, how much did we promise? 5 years. What do we see here? That five years after the adoption of changes to the Constitution, they're only going to have another election after October 31st, and now they're, we're going to fool the city's communities about what we promised them all five years. We give them four years. And that's why we can now say that this bill will get all our citizens to vote for a four-year term. Next question. Now let's see about when it can be accepted. He really, Adam Ivanovich rightly said, right, that only in the February month of the next scheduled session can we vote in favour of the bill. What if we don't vote? If there are no 300 votes for this bill, when will there be parliamentary elections? That's right, Deputy Knazević, in March 2011. Because the logic is that if we don’t have to change the 1996 Constitution, it was 15 and 16 paragraphs. That's why we're raising the seventh call of the members of the Supreme Council, that if we don't vote, they're going to be illegal in the 11th year, because the CWC is going to appoint another election in the 11th year on 22 November this year. There can be no other way. So the next question that we promise one of these stands is five years, and we're talking about another term. As for, for example, another election to the Kiev City Society, a Kiev head. Under what Constitution and under what laws did the Constitutional Court explain when it extended their mandate for five years, 4-5 years, after 2004? And now, according to your logic, it's the 96th. So when should there be an election to the city council and head? Right, October 31st. That's right, Mr. Kulikov. So the question is once again being raised, the city's head is being hanged, the deputy of the city's Kyiv Council, because the Constitutional Court, if we're taking 46 now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u45	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u46	Because the Constitutional Court after the local elections on October 31st, when we collect and submit a motion to the Constitutional Court, there is no other decision to make. Because we divided the Chinese into elections because the Constitution of 1996 was in force, the elections were to be to these councils and the city head of Kiev on October 31st.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u47	Thank you. The National Deputy Bobylov is handing over the right to speak to Kamchatno College, please. Sergey Sobolev will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u48	Dear colleagues! Kamchat, the MP's group “Reforms for the Future”. So let's be honest and tell each other the truth. All this noise raised around the question "When to be an election?" and those who ask this question, that the elections were in March of the following year, was made with one goal to get some politicians to Parliament immediately and that is visible to the unarmed eye. Let us, therefore, act today in the legal field, for we, as the superior legislative body of laws, are making laws. I want to remind you that even a student in the first course of the National Law Academy or other law schools knows that there is no law of retroactive force. Parliament is elected for five years and a dot. It has to work for five years. Everything else is the wishes or demands of some politicians, which one of the colleagues said very well about, about the organolliptic situation on certain, there, the doorways. So, as a member of the temporary special commission, I confirm that the discussion that we had at our meeting today ended with the decision that is being made today in the hall, this decision is absolutely in the legal field. And I want to remind you that the Constitutional Court did not accept any new constitutions. The Constitutional Court strictly annulled the act of a law that was adopted with a violation. Society has long supported the idea of a five-year term for both parliament and the President. So all the discussions on this issue are political speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u49	Sergey Sobolev, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Next is Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u50	I think this Supreme Council has never seen such a legislative act before. First of all, for students in the first law school. So if the law doesn't have reverse power, on what basis did you change the laws last plenary week: about the militia, about the Cabinet of Ministers, about the Holding Fund and dozens of other laws, if the law doesn't have reverse power? I'm surprised to hear that argument at all. Because then it turns out that we live on, because we chose the old one, as you say, by the Constitution, under this Constitution and all the powers of the constitutional organs are defined there. Secondly, I'm not saying that in this legislative act, the drafts refer to what we have in the Constitution can be changed by a decision of the Constitutional Court. Because, as a member of the faction of the region stated the day before, he had just spoken of three possible ways to speak from this rostrum. This is the people who are changing the Constitution, this is the Parliament to which the people were delegated, and this is the so-called constitutional assembly. And when did the people delegate the mandate of the Constitutional Court to change the Constitution? And in the Transitional Situations, it's twice that the Constitutional Court, by changing the Constitution, that's why we're going through this pattern. Now it's about the substance of the bill. Well, when you scared the President's Administration a week ago by taking five months of office from the President, now you've decided to scare the President's Administration by adding another six months of authority. Do you think this will continue the Supreme Council? Then, in essence, this bill. Well, if that's how you want to continue to authorize the Supreme Council and act on your logic, then that only applies to the next Supreme Council, because the law has no reverse power again. That's why this project is worthless, it can't be the subject of consideration by the Supreme Council at all. It's a project to save yourself from elections. More specifically, from the judgment given by the people in March 2011 to all those political forces that in due time illegally changed the Constitution, to all those political forces that in due course did everything they could to change the constitutional order in Ukraine. That is why, of course, the position of our faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko” is clear – this act is worthless and cannot be considered at all in the Supreme Council. We won't vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u51	Anatoly Matvienko, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. Gregory Smythech will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u52	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” block. Adam Ivanovich, I accept the criticism, the remark to my address, the non-parliamentary statement, and I apologize. But it's emotion. I won't do that again. But now I want to address you as the head of the Constitutional Commission and ask you to give me an answer. How many constitutional commissions are there now, demonstrating their project, will be guided by political purpose rather than by the wish to write a constitutional law in accordance with the Constitution even in 1996. When you read these standards, the question arises: Do we not think at all because we have a commission to do so? And if we have a commission, let's correct those who formulate these orders that we can't prescribe pointless tasks in the changes to the Constitution. I want to go back to that 103 - article norm, 103 - article that doesn't allow me to write the 16th paragraph in the Final Order, well, because the President can't be in power for more than five years. And we're giving him a six-year prescription for a couple of months. Come on, Adam Ivanovich, let's say it could be the last Sunday of January, or the third Sunday of February, and we'll take down all the contradictions. Well, in the same document, you can't show or write completely different rules of the Constitution. Now I want to draw your attention, dear deputies, colleagues, to what happens to the Supreme Council. We're being ambushed. And you'll see that it will. Now we're writing, again, a silly date in 2012, which means October of the month. As a result, I don't know what to do with CFC, really, it's already been said here. The CEC will act under the Constitution. Tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, most of the 50 - day elections to the Supreme Council will be adopted in such a way that the CEC will move, and 300 votes will not be cast. And the election will be announced in 2011 in 50 days? Who will hold the 2011 elections in 50 days? Only a party of power and no one else. In this way it's conscious, give me the bait on a very visible hook that ignores every democracy. Now it's about. Therefore, these contradictions need to be removed, Adam Ivanovich. Local elections, tell the truth that they're going to be four years old. Again, we play with the local elections, which is also incorrect in relation to the higher legislature. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u53	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Landik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Let's be honest. When, in 2004, the Constitution had a stable and functioning authority, including the Presidential Branch of Authority, Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers and other authorities, which were formed in accordance with the Constitution then in force, none of the opposition forces today spoke, or that an illegal decision is made in any way. Then why didn't you ask that question? So why didn't you ask this question, what is impossible because it contradicts the order of change? Why didn't you say then that authorizations continue or don't continue, are passed on or not passed on. You were silent when it was convenient for you to do so. Today, when you're not comfortable, because you're an opposition force, you want to go out with people, you say that doesn't make any sense. Let's be honest if we ask the population of Ukraine today, and I'm meeting with labor groups and they're saying that when this vachanal of Ukraine stops, when there's one order in Ukraine where the country lives, and they'll know that every election takes place in one year, it'll cut the budget to calm the population, so that there's no point of view in society that's tearing the country apart. As a result of this political crash, real economic reforms are not taking place because there is no political stability in Ukraine. For the benefit of who? For the benefit of this population living in Ukraine or for the benefit of our competitors or foreign countries? Perhaps no one will ever confirm to me the point that it is for the benefit of our society. I have a particular point of view in general that, of course, it's right or wrong, but we have to use one thought: is it appropriate to do this or is it not appropriate, is it economically advantageous or unfavourable to the State, or is it going to calm our population, or is it going to prevent us from talking about a partition of the country, or is it going to calm our population and give some normal development to the Ukrainian people? I think if we're here in the Supreme Council at this point once and for all, then there will be peace, then there will be success in our country. I call on all political forces not to discuss in this regard, but to get out of the way. And that's where you have to put the dot. In my view to the Supreme Council in general, the local authorities and, including the President, the elections should be held alone. Then it will be felt by the population that one political force that wins with the President, it forms the majority in Parliament and it is responsible for economic policy. Or we get what some forces say and others answer. Well, please tell me for those reforms, for those promises of seven steps towards the people who were given in the area of Independence by President Yushchenko and your political power, please tell me one of these questions has been fulfilled or not? And we now complain that it's uncomfortable for the population, that it won't satisfy their need, that the population is against it. I say it's appropriate to keep your promises when you're in power. So I call on everyone to vote on this law, to refer it to the Constitutional Court. And put a dot on this once and for all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u55	He's got a word for it, no, no, now Landik. Paul’s is the next one, one, two, three. He's not in time. There's Pavlovsky, but he can't make it. You don't? Well, come on in, look. Well, I don't have it on my computer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear friends! If you remember it like that, where does it all start? We all start with precedents. If we remember with you in 2004, the adoption of the amendments to the Constitution, which were referred to as reform, as they were called. And the same Venice Commission, which you are all looking at and quoting today literally every day of God's life, has categorically attributed to us all that wrong, illegal changes to the Constitution have been adopted. You guys, you thought it was all great, you could do it. Elections continue in 2004. Under the Constitution, it was written that elections were held in 2004. How did the elections take place in 2005? The same precedent was established by you. You came up with an unconstitutional third round, an unconstitutional election. Then remember your outgoing President's term of office when he took his oath twice. Which one was constitutional and which was unconstitutional? When its term was more than five years, and the elections began in one year, 2004 and ended in 2005. Tell me, where's the Constitution, where's here, what's done? Nothing. And if we say now that we leave this precedent, we will live by the Constitution, and we will bring our legislation in accordance with the Constitution, and then it will be clear to all when the elections of local authorities, when the Supreme Council, when the President is elected. And to remember, my colleague here used to say that she was responsible for all the CEC cases because everyone went to the bushes. Who came up with the idea of picking out their deputies for five years, four years? Maybe Julia Vladimirovna and Viktor Andreevich will take those four years or what? You also took them unconstitutionally, and you all proved that it was unconstitutional. Let us therefore move into the Constitution, enact laws in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u57	Fill it up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, Sergey Mishchenko is handing over the right to speak. Whom does Sergey Mishchenko pass on? Sergio Sassa, please. But Mishchenko's handing over the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u60	Thank you. I'm from the faction. Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I remind you that the subject of a bill amending the Constitution is the President or 150 national deputies. I would like to inform my colleagues that shushing, political shushing in this room has reached a limit. I have two bills, one for number 7226 and one for 7265. Various bills, honourable colleagues, are attached to them by the same lists of national deputies. Today, the Shulers in the Supreme Council have not even exhausted the signatures of the National Deputies to collect this bill into the Hall. What are you doing, Vladimir Mikhailovich?Oh, my God! Stop this mess! What are you doing? You're violating the Constitution. It's already a violation of the constitutional procedure of acceptance, and this is the basis for all of these things to be declared unconstitutional even by your pocketless non-constitutional court. Look, I've been on this Supreme Council for a long time, but nobody's ever let that happen before. Here's a list. [[Unheard]] Stop it!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u61	I'm asking you not to be hysterical, but let's work quietly. Don't be hysterical!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u62	There's no hysteria! Stop breaking the Constitution and the Rules! Take it all off, because. Well, you know, it's gonna end very badly. And first of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to you as Head of the Supreme Council for today. Dear friends! Dear voters! You who follow today's broadcast in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on another occasion can see what's going on in the hall. I repeat: In the previous bill, eight months of office were stolen from the President and decided to rehabilitate him by adding three months of office to the top of the five - year term. And they think this is how it's gonna go! It can't be! The Constitution will not allow you to do that, and while we are in this room, we will not allow you to violate the Constitution. You have a majority – do it by law and by the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The closing word is Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, especially those who have been very critical about the bill of MPs, I thank you very much for the thoughts you have expressed. Each one of you has the right to express that opinion, and he is right in any way. Sadly, though, you and I are not able to listen to everything in order to resolve those other questions, since sometimes we, including our actions, bring to some legal or other legal ones, including cases. In view of the fact that local self - government elections will take place. You and I have made it clear that local self - government elections take place on the last Sunday of October of the fifth year. If you ask how many years they choose, it's from another opera. Many here, as always, were well - proposed by colleague Knyazevitch and others. They made a statement on a temporary special commission, but it's one of them, dear friends, that you and I have no right to change even the coma in that bill that the authors of the legislative initiative have put forward. All we can do is support him or not support him. In further work, I don't rule out that we can assume that we can count on these positions. There were some inaccuracies about the fact that there is no constitutional commission, there is a temporary special commission, we are not a constitutional commission. And there's another one about the signatures. Dear colleagues, those signatures that were under Bill 7226, there were 226 signatures. The signatures under Bill 7256 - 230 signatures and more. It's a matter of the people's deputies, like, in which order these signatures are placed. So, colleague Sass, don't be nervous because it's not worth your precious reviews. And lastly, a lot of attention here today was given to the Central Electoral Commission, let me remind you of one simple constitutional thing, a central election. The Central Electoral Commission is appointed by the Supreme Council, not the other way around. If the Central Election Commission were to appoint the Supreme Council, we would be so concerned about what it is as the Central Election Commission. And the members of the Central Electoral Commission are appointed, once again, by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we know how to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I stress, in particular, that in preparing this issue, we have fully followed the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Once again, we have fully and fully adhered to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we have every reason, when there is no objection, to put a motion on the vote. I propose to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine on the holding of the next election of the national deputies of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the local councils and the rural, rural, urban, and its referral to the Constitutional Court. Registration number 7265. Please vote. [[17:12:46]] For 260 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 177, “Clock Timoshenko” – 1, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 13, Communists – 26, “Clock of Lithuania” – 20, non-fractional – 23. Thus, honourable colleagues, the decision is made. I'm just asking 40 deputies to prepare for the vote when we make the final decision. Because you all want this decision to be made. I think you all understand that very well. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the draft Act amending article 155 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. [[on the reasonableness of the application of a charge under guard]] Registration numbers: 7084, 7084-1. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[17:13:54]] For 196 Decision taken. Reporters: Deputy Justice Minister Bogatyr Vladimir Viktorovich and National Deputy of Ukraine Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich, co-rapporteur-head of the Committee on Legal Protection of Sweden. Valérie Beales will be speaking from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u66	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Article 155 of the Criminal Procedure Code has been developed with the aim of improving the order of selection of precautionary measures in the form of custody. The current edition of article 155 of the Criminal Procedure Code stipulates that taking in custody, as a precautionary measure, is applied to crimes punishable by law in the form of deprivation of liberty for more than three years. The project foresees that a precautionary measure can be applied to crimes for which the law provides for penalties in the form of imprisonment for more than five years and only in the event of the impossibility of applying a more mild precautionary measure. In addition, there are clear reasons why a charge may be applied in matters for which the law provides for a penalty of imprisonment for a term of up to five years. Such exceptional cases are, for example, when a person is suspected of committing two or more crimes of mental nature or a person suspected of committing a new willful crime. Or there is evidence that a suspect, accused or defendant is preparing to commit a new crime, etc. The estimates show that the adoption of the bill will release some 8,000 persons from detention facilities. Now about 40,000 people are being held. The changes proposed by the bill will contribute to the humanization of criminal legislation, allow the balance of decisions in the selection of a precautionary measure, and meet the objective of prior imprisonment as a last resort, as well as contribute to the wider application of other alternatives that have been put in place. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u67	Sergei Grigorovich Mishchenko, please, regarding the bill. [[Registration number 7084-1]] So where's the reporter? Who's gonna be the reporter? Sergei Mishchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, if you examine two bills of parliament and introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, you can clearly say that the state needs one another and the other. Why? Our question is what is the basis and which is to be developed for the second reading. You know that the change in criminal legislation in our country leads to a decriminalization of the situation among the issues of conviction. Why? Because those Soviet standards, which were very huge because of the harsh or moderate severity of sanctions, and for a bag of potatoes, we had these experiences when we put people in prison, and we were given some real punishment. It is clear that this threshold for changes in the 155th article of the Constitution, for which crimes the accused should be charged, is to receive a precautionary measure such as guarding. Now this line is over. This can be obtained, such a precaution, for those criminals who will be further convicted of crimes that exceed a three - year prison term. What does the Cabinet of Ministers and MPs now offer? They're proposing to increase this term to five years, and that's true. That's right. So what kind of bill is it based on? Now, I have a conclusion from the Scientific and Experimental Government that there are two bills on the Supreme Council's agenda. But according to the Chief Executive, Bill 7084-1 is more perfect than the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u69	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u70	In particular, there is a more complete list of reasons why those who have committed crimes have been deprived of their liberty for a term of up to five years. It is clear, then, that we should vote both for one and for the other, but we need to determine what is the basis for accepting it and then work on it for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u71	Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz, Head of the Committee on Legislative Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u72	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with the Rules, the Committee on Legislative Protection considered both these bills and considered them very carefully because they are extremely important and relevant. The aim of both bills is to introduce international standards in the field of precautionary measures. Bills provide for a wider use of alternative precautionary measures, the establishment of clear formalised criteria for the application of security acquisitions, and the justification for such a step. The committee took a close look at this issue, and we had a purely professional discussion on the subject. After reviewing the bill, the committee decided to support the bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'd like to say why. In our view, the bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers is more valid. [[No. 7084]] Yes, both projects prohibit the taking of persons into custody in cases of nonserious crimes, i.e. the threshold for taking them into custody increases to five years, except for some exceptional cases. Such cases in government bill six, and in alternative law eight, which in some ways increases the repressive power of the state. The alternative bill also contains amendments to the Pre-Prison Act, which the Committee considers is unnecessary, since these rules should be laid down in the Criminal Procedure Code. At the same time, the committee notes that there is an alternative bill, there are very important and right proposals made by the people's deputies. And if the Supreme Council approves the bill, which the committee recommends, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u73	Microphone, please. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u74	The alternative bill will be taken into account during the second reading. Thus, honourable colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt Bill 7084 as a basis. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u75	Yes, thank you. Please make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, if the Supreme Council agrees with the committee's proposal, I would like to consider giving the committee the opportunity to commit, more faithfully, the committee to prepare the bill for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u77	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Is it? Please sign in if there is one. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yes. Gregory Smythew. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u78	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I support the bill passed by the government and support it for the following reasons. You know that today there are over 40,000 people in our State's detention cells waiting for a court ruling or waiting to be examined by investigators who are conducting a pretrial investigation. According to the conditions in which people are found, they do not always meet the standards that we refer to, European standards or world standards. And this often affects their lives and their health, although not always legitimately the authorities, the authorities, or other authorities, have been given appropriate judicial decisions in that they have been given a precautionary measure. in such cases as detention and detention. I believe that a very significant step will be taken by Ukraine in this regard if it adopts this law, because it will allow a more clear reason to take into account people who have committed crimes and for minor crimes or for crimes that do not have, so to speak, a great social resonance, and including crimes that do not always carry physical and other, so to speak, criminal origins that are committed against a person or a person, or so-called crimes of economic order, they do not always require a person to be imprisoned. Accordingly, Ukraine’s modern capabilities do not allow these people to be adequately supported under proper conditions. Although we know that so many people, and this statistics are, they say that many of those people have not been convicted and there was a measure of punishment that has not always been accepted with further detention in our, well, colonies where they are held or punished. So I'm asking you to support the Bill of Government of 7084 by redrafting it in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u79	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u80	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u81	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u82	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last time I've seen a well-thought-out bill from a government that's been directed at at least one. regulation of one beneficial social relationship. The government may have wondered what a terrible situation there is in places of deprivation. And she's really scary out there. It's catastrophic out there. And the fact that we've never heard the question of how things are today, the situation in places of deprivation, is that. Admitting that we actually don't want to notice that a lot of people are there today and they're going out and they're going to come out. The ultimate goal is to fix these people. This is especially true of those who are disabled, those who have oncosa, those who have AIDS, those who have tuberculosis, who are only progressing there, and when they get out, of course other people get infected. That's why it's absolutely justified to set a term that was changed from 3 years to 5 years, and to predict clearly the reasons why. when it can be taken into account as a precautionary measure can be applied in the 8 cases envisaged by the Kabminian Basic Law or the alternative bill. I share the opinion of the science department that an alternative bill is even better drafted than a government bill. I'll share it. But I think you can work on both. It's important to accept them. And the main thing is that they start to work. This will help to improve today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u83	Finish up, please. Dear colleagues! Question completed. It is the first, first draft of the Act amending article 155 of the Criminal Procedure Code, registration number 7084, to be adopted as a basis. Governmental. [[17:28:21]] For 339 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! There was a suggestion from the chairman of the committee that the Supreme Council of Ukraine had entrusted the committee with preparing it for the second reading under a reduced procedure. I mean the bill, registration number 7084. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[17:28:54]] For 293 Decision taken. Thank you. So, committee, I'm asking you to consider this. And on November 2-5, prepare it for consideration in the second reading. Dear colleagues! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure and Criminal Codes of Ukraine on the Limitation of Conviction, registration number 4521. The proposal to consider this issue by a simplified procedure. [[17:29:39]] For-189 Decision taken. The reporter is Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. The reporter was just now. Where is he? Since you're already in the process of dealing with the issue, dear colleagues, I'm going to report to you on the Committee's conclusion: the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. Is there a need to discuss this? You don't? Then I would like your attention, my fellow Members, to vote on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure and Criminal Codes of Ukraine on limited condemnation, registration number 4521. Please vote. [[17:30:51]] For 314 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am bringing to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for crimes committed in the fields of drug trafficking, psychotropic substances, their analogues or precursors. [[Registration number 4537]] Rapporteur-in-chief of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolajovic Stretović. Please. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[17:31:40]] For 203 Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u84	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues and citizens of Ukraine! Bill 4537 proposes to increase the penalties for crimes provided for in articles 305, 309 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. The social danger of crime in the circulation of narcotic drugs and their analogues is determined primarily by the spread of harmful effects on people’s minds that threaten personality degradation, moral and intellectual declines in society. It should be remembered that there is a direct link between drug abuse and crime: the health, life, and well - being of Ukrainian citizens are increasing in proportion to the number of drug addicts. Drug addiction in Ukraine has long reached epidemic levels, but this phenomenon does not face decisive opposition from the state. We have traditionally been mildly punished by those involved in drug trafficking and drug distribution. It is worth noting that the legislator is not able to limit the rate of development of the drug market. People who promote drug circulation do not face a barrier in their way. New types of narcotics are emerging, and their main statistical consumer is a young Ukrainian citizen under the age of 28. As a national MP, I am approached by people whose heart is hurt by the disaster that is more common in their families, which is the drug addiction of their children and their husbands and mothers. The problem of drug addicts in Ukraine exists and is or is not one of the most important problems. Our job is to work it out together. Drug abuse in Ukraine is reflected in statistics for society, and statistics for drug addicts today show only the tip of an iceberg and make it officially about 100,000 drug addicts. If you count. drug addicts, then you can boldly multiply by 10, and we'll have about a million drug addicts in Ukraine. Drug addiction in Ukraine increases by 8 percent per year. The trend is one of the highest in the world. 70 drug addicts in this number are young people 25 years old. Women’s drug use in Ukraine is the fastest in Europe. Drug abuse in Ukraine has an impact, and in the future, it will increase its impact on the negative demographic situation. Drug abuse is spread through distributors, and drug - selling points are produced like mushrooms in the rain. So today, our task is to strengthen responsibility, criminal responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u85	Microphone, please. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u86	For distribution, sale, storage, transportation, shipping, drug trafficking. In one case, when an organized criminal group is involved in the production of a consciously high quantity of drugs, it is envisaged that between 10 and 15 years of imprisonment or life imprisonment. [[And yesterday's TV story showed that in Zakarpatt, a laboratory was discovered when trucks were taken out by BAF operatives.]] This has been criticized by the scientific and expert administration, which is too severe a punishment for such a type of crime, where there is an exclusive threat to life, is a special cynicism, insolence and so forth. But drug addiction, involvement in drug abuse is a slow death. It comes inevitably only at a distance in time. That's why I'm asking you, parliamentarians, to support my bill and to increase criminal responsibility for spreading, selling, manufacturing, selling.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. Let's support this, because it's a sinister question, and then the committee will work on it and we'll look at it. No objections? A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for crimes committed in the field of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues or precursors. [[Registration number 4537]] Please vote. No, just on the ground. On the basis only. Please vote. [[17:35:50]] For-48 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second motion to re-read the draft law. [[Registration number 4537]] There's a vote coming. [[17:36:14]] For-34 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. What? Yuri Carmazin, please. Then Gregory Smythuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u88	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought it was obvious to everyone how much something needed to be done right now to save the nation. I thought everyone understood, so there was no discussion. And I didn't want to waste your time taking for reasons. Today, the circulation of narcotics and psychotropic substances, analogues, and precursors has already gone beyond the common sense of a loved one and is one that threatens the general existence of a healthy mental nation. It's obvious today. These crimes are coming to an end, and they're coming to an end. I've been quoting from this rostrum as they're hiding in court, especially in Kharkiv, as they're hiding and some law enforcement officials. And now we see that they're hiding here in Parliament. So, please, let's go back to this bill, accept it, and thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u89	Gregory Smythech, please. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u90	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I personally believe that this law is very important for our society, because Ukraine is becoming a transit or a range that uses all the modern drugs that affect the lives of a young generation of our nation. And I don't think that this law should be discussed by a reduced procedure, especially without discussing the MPs to express their point of view. I don’t think there was a representative of the Ministry of Health who would testify to the pace of Ukraine’s drug use and how it affects the lives of our society. Please tell me, when should the order be higher? When a person kills a person with one shot, or when a person slowly mistreats him. It imposes drugs, while killing the young generation of our nation. I'm asking you, National MPs, to go back to the bill and support Stretovich, bring him back. At least it's for re-reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u91	Andrew Kožemiakin, please, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u92	My fellow Members, I agree that, indeed, such laws, the bills must be considered in full procedure in order for us to hear, hear and see the opinion of all the representatives of the ministries, the authorities that have a bearing on control, the fight against this evil, but I believe that the increased criminal responsibility for the fact that the sick people are doing all these crimes in most of the world, because again this responsibility, they will lie down on the addicts, on the people who are being subjected to these drugs on those people who are somewhere in this situation without even knowing it. So I think that smuggling narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances really needs to increase the responsibility for these crimes, as is happening around the world, and there is a world practice that needs to be done. Smuggling must be combated, and all others, including drug abuse, must be combated by prevention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, unfortunately we can't go back to the draft because he didn't get the support, including the return to re-reading. The bill was rejected. At the same time, given the wickedness of this problem, I think you will not deny that I am preparing an appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with an immediate proposal to enforce the system law on this matter and to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine both the increased responsibility for the smuggling of narcotic drugs and the need for increased preventive work, especially among the young generation. Is there no objection? The secretariat would like to prepare an appropriate address for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Law on Scientific and Technological Activities of Ukraine. [[on the organization of new sectoral academics]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Stepan Dávimuk. The narrator is Maxim Lutsky. There is a request, my fellow Members, to consider the matter in a simplified manner. Mikhail Vasilovich, consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:41:25]] For 184 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen! The bill proposes to supplement article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities with provisions regulating the establishment of new sectoral academics of state-owned property. With the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Science and Technology in 1999, the status and list of State Academys operating in Ukraine are defined. So far, six of these are: The National Academy of Sciences and Five Branches The law defines academies as state but self-governing organizations. As state - owned organizations, the state is transferred to the state for free, free use, without the right to change the form of ownership of the basic funds, as well as the cost of circulation. The use of assets transferred to the academy is carried out according to the law and the statute of the academy. Land areas are offered to the Academy for permanent use, or leased in accordance with Ukraine’s Land Law. So the Academy of Sciences, as a state organization, is provided with considerable financial and financial resources involved in the creation and operation of the Academy of Sciences. As the self-governing organization of the academy, they decide on their own definition of research, their structure, their scientific and organizational, economic and human rights issues, and their international scientific connections. The status of the academy as state and state-owned organizations is their special feature, and this status requires further legislative development, especially with regard to issues related to transfers of assets, financial resources. Based on these positions and based on an analysis of the experience of the creation and operation of the State Academy of Sciences, the bill has been prepared. The bill provides for the next order of the creation of new branches.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u95	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u96	State-owned property. I'm just going to add that the bill, supported by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, was developed with the participation of experts in the Institute of State and the right of the name of the Korean NAN of Ukraine, and received a positive conclusion from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. True, there are some comments that need to be taken into account, especially with these constitutional changes that have taken place recently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u97	Thank you, too. Maxim Georgievich Lutsky, please, from the committee. The committee suggests that, honourable colleagues take the floor. Please tell the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u98	The committee's decision is to base the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u99	Thank you. There is a need to discuss this matter, if there is, please write it down. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yuri Odarchenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u100	I pass the word Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u101	Mikola Tomenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u102	My fellow Members, I believe the bill is necessary, but obviously it should be seen as the first step towards a general strategy for scientific reform. Today we have one, so - called, large academy and five branch academyes. So there is a constant temptation to create new branches of government, at the expense of the academy. Let me remind you of the history of several years ago, on the birth of a living classic of environmental sciences, the former minister, the former president of the decree created the Academy of Environmental Sciences. All the people who worked in the system of environmental science were definitely opponents, because there are experts at the National Academy, there are scientific institutes and so on, so decided to do such a gift, there was a few years of discussion, and here you know my position. But I must admit that the current President has reversed this decision. And I think he did the right thing, because we can't be under ministers, under deputy ministers for budget money, to create a sector of the academy. So, the general principle that the basis for making such decisions must be the teaching of the elite of Ukraine, particularly the National Academy of Sciences and the relevant authorities of the State. The other thing is that if we're to be consistent to the end, we obviously have to hold discussions and say in the future that there should be no sectoral academy in the future. What should be the National Academy, and these industries today, five that we have to be autonomous units in the National Academy system, and then the only science strategy understood the logic of using funds, the clear strategic emphasis on economic breakthroughs, is how we approved investment projects with you today. So we have everyone in the National Academy and in the ministries, there are people, as they think, and we've decided on an additional structure to create and give 25 million to generalize them. So first. We need a bill in the first reading to be adopted so that we don't have to create additional academics at state expense, but in general, we have to have discussions, and I think that these discussions at the level of the General Assembly of the National Academy of Sciences, and how do we continue to move forward so that science can act in a synchronized way, in one direction, and benefit both the economy and the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u103	Katerina Vaschuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, we all understand very clearly that without science, no progress can be made in the state. In time, the latest achievements in various fields of science, technology, economic development, and even politics. So the creation of any scientific institution can only be hailed, more by the Academy of Sciences. It's just that I would like to have our academics in the field that are going to be creating new ones and those that are working today to work harder to fill in young people's frames. How can we make science come into the minds of people who will work decades from now who will actually work with a new outlook, with a new vision? There were many different proposals, and in studying foreign experience, many scientists tend to think that the Academy of Sciences, scientific institutions, especially research institutes, should be combined with national universities, and that there would be a wider open road for young people. For as long as a young scientist, especially if he has no support of a variety of kinds, gets to the academy, well, we know what age it can be. So I would like to work on this law for a second reading, so that we can think about how to help and give preferences to young scientists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u105	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u106	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. You know, I don't mind creating new academies myself. I'm personally in favour of the academy actually producing some results. Let's be clear that the academy in our modern world or in the modern history of Ukraine in its own years of independence functions in itself, manufacturers or industry itself, the state itself. And every year, the Supreme Council, by voting on the Ministry of Finance, undoubtedly grants funding to the Academy of Sciences. Should we do this or not? Of course you do. But please tell me, if we've changed the form, the form of ownership, if we've changed our attitude towards private property, if the state has given up on private hands, please tell us why we, why the Supreme Council, why the Cabinet of Ministers, the Academy of Sciences itself won't do it. do not reform the Academy of Sciences as a whole. Please tell me, what scientific system of the Academy of Sciences has the U.S.A. today resolved some of the issues that have had a positive effect on Ukraine? I'll tell you. Our Ukraine, we, the state, fund the Academy of Sciences, finance our higher education institutions and our talented people work abroad. They're filling the economic potential of foreign countries; they're completing their development intellectually and technically. What is left for our nation? And our nation remains an accessory to raw, raw materials in Ukraine. So without specifically reforming such an important area as the Academy of Science, along with our higher educational institutions, I believe that this law in this kind of way should not be adopted and I suggest that we maintain the point of view, send it back to the first reading. And in general, I call on the Cabinet of Ministers as a whole to consider this issue and, indeed, to reform it in such a way that it has a positive effect for Ukraine, not done or done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u107	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finalizing this discussion. I'll tell you how a man who worked for three years as vice president of the National Academy of Sciences. I'm surprised to hear the speeches of some people who, let's say so softly, say they don't understand at all in this regard. This is the first time. That's different. Dear colleagues, we have great work to do, unfortunately, the Academy of Sciences is not being asked, and this bill applies quite differently. It's about putting an insurmountable attempt on any occasion to create additional branches of the academy and to put them on the state budget. And it's suggested that if it's necessary to do that, there's a scientific and civic expertise to the extent that it's necessary to do that kind of research. So that there would be a public opinion, and there were no culinary decisions that we had in the previous period, as mentioned by Mikola Tomenko. So, dear fellows, I am addressing you. You have a decision to make. But before you speak on the subject, please read the bill. And that's the first one. And the second. We want to know what science and scientific society are. Please, non-party Taras Cranovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u108	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You know, I want to tell you a story. The more small, small sectoral but hungry academies, the less science. As far as I'm concerned, it's the right idea in this law. But she says, half, half a step. Obviously we should vote for him. Obviously, we need to support it now. But as far as I'm concerned, we're all well aware that there's no logic in creating new sectoral academies in principle. These are the details of science, the fragmentation of funds, the creation of pedestals for someone else’s ambitions. So, obviously, it would be the best option to make a decision that would put a moratorium on a long enough period to create new sectoral colleges. We're saying that special conditions, preconditions, special experts of the conclusion have to be created. We know how such expert opinions are made when someone wants them very much. Better be a complete ban. In the end, we need to put most of these sectoral academics back into the mainstream of the Academy of Sciences and mobilize it with normal resources for the development of science.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office concluded that the bill could be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities. Reminds me again, registration number 4271. Please vote. [[17:55:08]] For-127 The decision is not taken. A proposal was made to send the bill for rereading. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[17:55:35]] For 319 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, we'd consider one more question, and then we'd finish our evening session. [[the reporter has long been ready]] Would you mind? Then there is a request for a reduced procedure to consider the draft law. [[Registration number 4585]] [[17:56:14]] For 219 Decision taken. And the proposal, your honorary colleagues, to continue the evening session until the conclusion of the discussion of the matter. Is there no objection? The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Vasil Mikolaiovich Gritzak. Coroner is head of the National Security and Defence Committee subcommittee, Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on wearing uniforms, using distinguishing signs and symbols, which is proposed to prohibit the wearing of military clothing, other military uniforms and distinguishing signs and marks, namely: motors, shevrons, state-owned and prominent symbols, lamps, perceptions, and so on, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, persons who do not have legal rights to do so. To this end, I propose to add to the Ukrainian Laws on Unity of Citizens and on Military Duty and Military Service. What, then, is behind this bill? The Constitution of Ukraine, in article 92, clearly states that exclusively the laws of Ukraine establish military rank, diplomatic rank, and other special titles. Despite these explicit constitutional prescriptions, there have been cases of illegal establishment and use by public organizations, associations and structures of names, wearing uniforms, drives, and other distinguishing signs, symbols that are established only for the relevant categories of Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations provided for in Ukraine’s legislation. All of this leads to excessive militarization of society, which, in turn, leads to disagreement in legislation, the occurrence of cases of use of monostraps in criminal activities. For example, bank robbery in Kharkiv with severe consequences, periodic raids by groups of people in uniform, abuse by public figures of their position in the use of titles, pursuits, symbols, signs of distinction between the primary and the military forces of Ukraine and other military formations. The bill provides for the availability of appropriate clothing, clothing forms of other military uniforms, and marks of distinction and markings approved by decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u111	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u112	The project also prohibits the legalization of the activities of citizens who use the above - mentioned military uniforms and distinguishing marks in their activities. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been duly considered by the profile committee. The committee of profile supported this. But as the author, the initiator of this bill, taking into account the serious comments made by the scientific and expert board of the Supreme Council, please support the idea and consider it for a second first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u113	Thank you, sit down, please. Yuri Samuelenko will be speaking from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on National Security and Defence, at its meeting, considered the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws relating to the wearing of uniformed clothing, the use of distinguishing marks and symbols. The bill proposes to prohibit the wearing of military uniforms, the uniforms of other military formations, and the distinction between those who do not have legal rights to do so. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that it is appropriate to return the right of the legislative initiative to the parties to the finalization of the bill. After a full discussion of the bill at the committee meeting, the members of the committee unanimously supported its idea. And since there has been an increase in the number of illegal assignments of use by public organizations and associations of names, uniforms, pagons, symbols, other signs of distinction, which are established only for the relevant categories of armed forces and other military entities established in accordance with Ukrainian law, they have decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and take all comments into account when preparing it for second reading. However, given the continued work with the drafters of the bill and taking into account the substantive comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, as Secretary of the Committee, I support the views of one of the authors. vote for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-19-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, can we put this to a vote? Then the first one will be the proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. That's why I'm putting to the vote the issue of adoption on the basis of a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[about wearing uniforms, using distinctions and symbols]] [[Registration number 4585]] Please vote. [[18:01:55]] For 132 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a second proposal that has just been made by the reporter and on behalf of the committee to send the bill for re-reading. Registration number 4585. Please vote. [[18:02:25]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we continue to work in plenary mode on schedule for Wednesday.
