ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u1	Please invite the national deputies to the session room. And please, Your Honor, prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[16:02:13]] Cards were registered in the 295 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. [[on Braille labelling]] Please sign up for discussions by factions and then by the Ukrainian national deputies. And from the people's deputies, please. Yes, Paul Zebrovsky, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, it's actually very good that the law has been passed because it means that we care about people who have limited opportunities. Of course, however, we overcame it. We wanted it as good as ever. I would like to point out that there is no directive of the European Union concerning Braille. In fact, there is a European practice that implies that in some, limited number of appointments, Braille is a bar, and only a name. I want to say that today (the question was from Adam Ivanovich on the grounds that they do not perform the factories of January 1st, but not only Ukrainian, but also foreign productions actually with Braille do not put the medicine on the Ukrainian market. The point is that it is only those who will be registered since January 1 that should have Braille on them. This long - held action, let's say the introduction of this law. I also want to say that, of course, the cure will not only be made available in Braille for all these appointments, compositions, and applications. In fact, on small packages, on ampoules, it is virtually impossible to apply because there are requirements for the size of this font, and since there are enough words, it is clear that the packages should be much larger. And the journey not only from buying these vending machines by typing the font will be, but also from the fact that these packages actually have to be bigger. Now they always say there are plenty of pharmacies in Ukraine. And it's true that Ukraine is the country where the pharmacy is several times as much as it is in the world. Why? Because around the world, 70 percent of medicines are consumed through health insurance, through state purchases. Unfortunately, we have only 20 percent of the drugs that go by the state of purchase. Everything else, in fact, should be bought in a pharmacy. And that's why there's a pretty big list in pharmacies. What I'm saying is, of course, is that law that's in place and I'd like to welcome and thank both Korja, and Haydaev, who are actually going to meet not only manufacturers, but, in fact, patients who are going to buy and make these adjustments at higher prices. I encourage you to vote for these changes, this is actually going to be directed not for the farmers, but for the end consumer, because the farmers won't take the damages, they're just going to raise the prices. And in the end, it's going to come out on the person who's going to buy
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u3	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u4	Vladimir Karpuk, deputy faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", deputy group "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, we will support this bill. And from this rostrum, I would like to express my sincere thanks to Yuri Alexanderovich Haydav, who just realized the need to meet people with visual defects. And the idea was very clear. And I'm sorry for both of you. This bill is submitted by Yuri Alexanderovich Haydev and Victor Petrovich Korz. But in considering this issue, the interests of manufacturers are not taken into account. Today, I insisted that Braille also indicate a dose of the active substance. Well, the shape here is below the question mark. But during this period of time, I was convinced that this should be determined by the central executive body, the Ministry of Health. Because if a list or a form of change is needed at the legislative level, the Ministry of Health can do the same. There's a certain ethical point to it, and, really, it hurts to think about it on our committee that didn't take all the moments into account to help people with vision defects and to take the interests of manufacturers into account. But you have to listen to Victor Petrovich's point of view and vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Does the author insist on the closing word? Please turn on Victor Korja's microphone. And please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to take your views of this law seriously. And I would ask, given the obvious that there is a need to accept it and consider the possibility in the first reading and in general, because it is one paragraph, but this paragraph is very important to both the manufacturers and the visually impaired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. [[Registration number 5506]] I therefore put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for a draft law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. Registration number, again, 5506. Please vote. [[16:09:48]] For 296 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal from the national deputies, including a colleague of Zebrovsky, to accept as a law as a whole. Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, I support the drafter, but we have a problem here: we don't have a definition when the law takes effect. Or then we could just say it now, or we could just take a little break and prepare it. If there is a committee, perhaps Mrs. Bachteyeva, she will offer an option, if the committee is ready now, so that we, with clear regulation when it takes effect, can vote in general, or further elaborate and then return to the reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u9	Dear colleagues. The committee doesn't mind? Aunt Dmitrovna, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u10	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! As a general rule, the first reading alone cannot be accepted. Because the law has been in force since 1 January, and this law does not specify the date of its introduction. So it's only on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u11	Now Paul Zebravsky, then Valerius Suskevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, if in fact, are only a single amendment. When this law entered into force, and there was no objection at all to the law itself, and, by the way, colleague Korge said that the law should take effect from the time it was published. It's a norm and it's a change, and there's nothing to move on to the second reading. Simply add that the law goes into effect from the moment it is published, and then it can be adopted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u13	Valerius Suškević, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Yulia Timoshenko faction, Valeriy Suškevitch. I have on my committee the appeal of the Ukrainian Association of Blind and Blind People, who have requested a profile committee to offer them a second reading. So the request is to listen to those who have something to do with it. I talked about it both on the committee, and the committee head knows about it. So the request for a second reading to listen to the suggestions of blind people with disabilities and accept the second reading of their proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u15	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, an error was made in considering the previous bill, and the committee did not take this seriously enough. This error needs to be corrected as soon as possible. As far as the rights of the disabled are concerned, they are completely preserved here. What is it? It's about not doing stupid things when some of the drugs that are only used at the station are also being spread to make sure that the marker is right. It just doesn't make sense. Let's take it in general and go back to work, because we have to correct what we didn't do before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u17	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u18	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I have also received several calls on the intermission with proposals to improve the law, only to formalize them into specific proposals for a second reading procedure. And I support Tatiana Dmitrievna Bachteev to the point that this law is to be passed today only on first reading and then thoroughly elaborate on the second reading procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u19	Thank you. The national deputy of Haydayav. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you, we don't have a list of medicines to mark, and the law says Victor Petrovich Korzh. That's the first one. Second. If we now, after passing the law, allow the Ministry of Health to tell us what medications should be marked, we will simply cut off the law. Therefore, I would very much like to ask you to take into account the opinion of the Health Committee and on the accelerated procedure in general to consider this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are two considerations on this point. First. To establish that this law takes effect from the time it is published and put to the vote as a whole. The other one. Suggestions that were made about making changes to the second reading. Please tell me, what will the Supreme Council of Ukraine determine the list of medicines? What does she have to do with this? That's absurd. If we suggest that there be Braille markings on medical devices, what changes and refinements can be made to this question? What is more, it gives the executive authority the right to determine the order of application of this law. So let's make this decision, your honorary colleagues, to assign the committee to work on it in a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? I put it to the vote to entrust the committee with the drafting of the bill and submit it to the second reading on a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 5506]] Please vote. [[16:16:08]] For 316 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, Bill 5328 of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on joint action is being announced. I will put to the vote a motion to consider it in a summary procedure. Please vote. [[16:16:44]] For 205 Decision taken. Reporter – Deputy Minister of Economics Zyjelov Mikhailo Aleksandrovich, co-rapporteur – Head of the Economic Policy Committee of the European Economic Policy Committee Yuri Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on joint action is proposed. The purpose of the bill is to prevent the ineffective use of state property and to prevent the State from violating the interests of the contracting State in the course of joint activities, as well as the Commission's contracts, asset management and investment contracts. Repeated inspections carried out by the Head of State, Mineconomy, have established that when government property has been derived from the control of economic operators and operators by transferring it to joint activities without agreement with the authorities, there is no valuation of the market value of the assets transferred as a contribution to joint activity. In addition, the absence of a common agreement and arrangements for joint action agreements, commissions, commissions and administrations create conditions that may result in the alienation of State property. With a view to preventing the ineffective use of the holding and non-infringement of the interests of the State during the conclusion of the joint activities agreements, it was necessary to develop the bill, which provided for amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Masters, to the Civil Code, and to the Ukrainian Act on the Management of Objects of State Property. The adoption of the law deals with the issue of preventing ineffective use of state property and non-infringement of the interests of the State when contracting joint activities of the commission, commission, property management and investment contracts. It is proposed that the bill be voted on and adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u23	Thank you. Please, Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u24	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! A bill on first reading is before you. [[5328]] It was considered by the Committee on Economic Policy on 15 December 2009. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be adopted on first reading and, subsequently, to allow the authors and the Committee to finalize it. In view of the comments made to the bill by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, I would like to draw your attention to the amendments that the authors have written to the Ukrainian Code of Commerce, paragraph 7, and to the Ukrainian Law, and to the Civil Code. This rule does not fully comply with the current legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, in view of this, it is proposed that it be adopted on first reading and further developed to second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u25	Thank you. Please log in. Two in, two in. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u26	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The project proposes to amend the Master and Civil Codes of Ukraine, as well as the Ukrainian Law on the Management of State Property Objects, which improves the use of State property in joint agreements. In particular, the project foresees that they cannot be deposits in joint activities of public property that are not subject to privatization, except for property that is not used to carry out the main activity. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to adopt this bill in the first reading. And I want to add to it. This is a case where we do not place the party's corporate interest at the forefront and despite the fact that the bill has been submitted by the former Government of Yulia Timoshenko, but we see a real effect from the adoption of the law for the country and the Party of the Regions will support such bills. I repeat. We never focus on the authorship of the bill, but we look at the substance of the bill and the implications for its adoption, for the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u27	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal to approve on the basis of the draft Act amending some of the legislators. One second, we'll call it off. The faction that didn't sign up, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u28	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Here I have no doubt both the reporter and the co-reporter speaking out said the right thing to do is to support this bill. The only one, Alexander Volodymyrovich, is that I would like to clarify one question. There's 105 articles of the Rules that talk about, and this is the Cabinet Bill, so we have a Kabmin, don't we have a Kabmin? Because this article says, if we don't, we don't have the right to look at either the Presidential or the Cabinet. This is just the moment, but in principle we need to support this bill, and in the future let's look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u29	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. With your permission, I'll give you an answer. The Ukrainian Constitution includes the principle of the continuity of power and the Cabinet of Ministers, which is normally responsible for the formation of a new composition. That is why we today have a regulatory right to consider. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on joint action. [[Registration number 5328]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:23:42]] For 339 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is now our turn to consider two draft laws relating to the support of the shipbuilding sector. At the morning plenary meeting, I was asked by the authors of these projects to postpone their consideration so that we could consider them in the next plenary week. There is no objection to the national MPs. No objections? A decision is taken by consensus, and it is postponed to the next plenary session. A draft Law on State - bound Social Insurance is being announced for consideration. We have three draft laws here. The first one will be reported by the Ukrainian national deputy Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich. Please. There's an offer from the procedure. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, wait a minute. Out of procedure, please, National Deputy Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u30	Dear Alexander Vladimirovic, distinguished colleagues, the bills that have been announced are very much needed by our country and very much efforts have been made to prepare them. But the situation that has taken place in Parliament today is threatening their adoption. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I request that Bills 1040, 1040-1, 1040-2 be transferred to the next sessional week. And, Alexander Vladimirovich, same as the 1440 bill. We've been working on it for two years. Today, this project on social dialogue is also under threat. I very much ask you to support all the people's deputies, and to move them to the next week so that the work of many tens of people, including the International Labour Organization, will not be lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, since we already have this project in the agenda, I would like to see the authors of these alternative projects: Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich, Oleg Borisovich Shevchuk and Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhiy Question: Is it also against the transfer to the next plenary week? They don't deny it. Ukrainian national deputies support the postponement of these projects to the next plenary week? Is there a denial? Please, the People's Deputy of the Underworld.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u32	Dear voters, dear colleagues! I want to say that these bills are really very, very important. And if there is a majority in this room today, why does this majority not want to consider such important issues? So I urge you to consider them today when there is a majority that has shown today how it can work effectively. [[Brackets]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u33	National Deputy Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u34	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Honourable MPs, these bills are long awaited by both the medical community and society as a whole. These are too important bills. At the same time, laws have been incorporated into the agenda today in relation to compulsory national social health insurance, since we also have a social country under the Constitution. But there is another bill -- 4744 -- passed on 30.06. 09 -- that is, these bills were passed in December 2007 -- and these -- recently, they've been through, in fact, a lot of discussions at public hearings and so on. Because if you look at these issues, you have to include Bill 4744 in the agenda, because there are ideological two approaches. One approach is based on legislation on compulsory public social insurance from 1998 and the other on the Insurance Act from 1996. And if we don't look at them at the same time, we can do it in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, since there is a proposal by the committee's head, supported by the drafters, to deny the national MPs the transfer, I propose to the committee's head that all three draft laws be transposed for consideration in the next plenary week. Please identify yourself in the session room. [[16:28:54]] For 281 Decision taken. Bills have been moved to the next plenary week. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Goods Transit Act is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4270]] Report by Zosula Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u36	Dear National Deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! For the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am submitting a bill number 4270, amending the Ukrainian Goods Transit Act. [[on customs clearance]] As can be established immediately from the content of the bill, amendments to article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Transit of Goods, the main purpose of the bill is the introduction of a transshipment system in Ukrainian container ports, i.e. the transit regime for goods in containers arriving and being heated by water transport and during storage do not go beyond one point of entry or customs control, which is the territory of the maritime trading port, where customs treatment takes place without the delivery of a cargo-mites declaration and without the application of measures. Delivery. In the explanatory note, I had detailed, giving a similar example of the work of the Constance seaports, the advantages of implementing the transshipping system. [[Romania]] In turn, this will allow, first, to simplify the handling and handling of transit cargo in Ukraine’s sea and river ports. [[terminal]] Second, to bring cargo transit conditions in Ukrainian ports closer to the conditions for carrying out similar activities in foreign ports, which will have a positive impact on the competitiveness of domestic ports. This bill was fully supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Preparatory Committee for Transport. Thus, the implementation of the bill will allow for the creation of additional competitive advantages of a domestic maritime complex on the international transport services market by simplifying container treatment procedures that arrive and reheat in transit transport, by involving new freight lines, by developing containers of powerful Ukrainian ports, and by creating new jobs in the transport sector. Increase the volume of container shipping processing and the number of shipping operations of container vessels and the corresponding revenues of container ports and terminals and additional deductions to the State budget of Ukraine. In addition, I would stress that the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine and the State Customs Service of Ukraine agreed on the text of the bill I submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At its meeting, the committee received and considered the agreement. That is why I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support this bill and vote for it in the first, second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u37	Do you have everything? Please ask the reporter. Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u38	Thank you. Smiling Party of the Regions. Ruslan Petrovich, I have a question for you. Since you've been doing this bill, in preparation, you've probably studied, please say, in recent times or in the last five years, has Ukraine increased transit or Ukraine is losing transit, although it has 5 important intercontinental corridors between Europe, Asia and other countries? That's the first question. And the second question. Don't you think we need something radical to change in the Customs Committee because such corruption and such a lengthy procedure as today's customs transport process for our domestic citizens who are engaged in entrepreneurial activities is the most difficult procedure in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u39	Thank you for asking. First of all, in my bill, in the explanatory note, I noted that, during our independence, we lost this position in the Illichevsky, Odessa ports for cargo transit, and as a result, I want to say this in one example, we lost this position, and all of these goods. The freighters went to Romania, to Constance. And Ukraine as a whole is a transit state. But we don't see, you know, I don't know, no bills, anything else, doesn't allow us to be a transit state and make money. And as a result, in our years of independence, we have significantly lost our transit potential. With regard to corruption in the Customs Committees, I would like to tell you that, first of all, if we want our country to develop, of course, we have to simplify all customs handling procedures, the more this system was opened, not the other way around, you know, if you want to unscramble cargo, then sometimes day, two, three or months goes into this procedure. Of course, we need to change this system.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u40	Thank you. Have a seat, please. A report from the Kruk Committee, Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u41	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council for Transport and Communications Committee has considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Transit Act of 26 March 2009. [[Registration number 4270]] The bill was designed to introduce a simplified transit regime in Ukrainian seaports in containers arriving and shipping by water and which do not go beyond one point of entry or customs control, which is the territory of the maritime trading port. In this case, customs clearance takes place without the provision of a goods customs declaration. This form of formalization exists in more than 50 per cent of the world's leading ports that process container vessels. This will facilitate the passage and processing of transit goods in Ukrainian sea and river ports, terminals and bring the transit conditions of Ukrainian ports closer to those of similar overseas ports, which will have a positive impact on the competitiveness of domestic ports. The Committee on Transport and Communications agrees on the need to improve the legislative solution for the transit of goods in order to facilitate their processing. The Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the State Customs Service and the Committee on the Budget of the Supreme Council supported the bill unchanged, noting that its adoption would increase the volume and processing of container goods and the revenues of container ports and terminals and, accordingly, increase the income portion of the budget. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office, in its opinion of 3.04.2009, supported the adoption of the bill on the basis of the comments made. In view of the above, the Sectoral Committee requests that the Bill be adopted as a basis for first reading. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u42	Please sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u43	Yuri Borisovich, Party of the Regions, please tell me on the committee that this bill concerns me with this question of what the emphasis is on our ports. Undoubtedly, ports are an important component of our part, as it were, of transit, of the ability to make money for the State. But transit not only goes through ports these and container transports not only take place through ports of our sea, they go, for example, from the Baltic to the Black Sea, from the Black Sea to the Baltic and they cross land borders. Don't you think that we should expand in the second reading of the possibility that this applies to all the transit cargo that is in our country today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u44	I'll tell you this is not a simple process, because here, in general, on the committee when we discussed the issue, we decided to adopt this bill at first, it would seem very simple, both in first reading and second reading, and generally, as the author has reported. But this cannot be done so far because, as you say, a lot of comments have been made, including what you are talking about. But for other goods, that is, to apply this to other goods, we need to change the handling technology in ports. If this can be done for container production, it is available today, i.e. the container has been set up, it has been determined, the outside territory is located, and it is easier. And then the whole territory needs to be done as a free economic zone and then it can be applied to other goods. But we need to do this now. Why? Because our cargo is leaving our home ports today. We are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u45	Please complete your response.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u46	Last year alone, we lost more than $50 million on only two ports that work for us – Odessa and Ilicivsky. We have lost what the Romanian side has taken, the port of Constance, which has been developing in recent years. This bill is therefore very relevant. I think we'll finish it on second reading and take it to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u47	Thank you, sit down, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u48	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! You see, in the last five years, when the Ukrainian government, having our ministry and having up to a dozen or more deputies, has never passed a bill that would simplify and increase the possibility of transiting our resources. This is not only about container transport, it refers to all goods and all transit possibilities in Ukraine. I don't understand why we lose, why do we have officials who get government awards, so to speak, sometimes for no reason? Why do they not pay off the cost that the State spends? Why we do not approach the issue of transit in Ukraine in a comprehensive manner. You know, there are five transit corridors in Ukraine, they're underload, our cargo is passing. Why are they crossing? First of all, corruption. The second part is the fibers. Let me give you an example. Singapore, 15 minutes for customs processing, 15 minutes! Which one of you should have seen this? Although there was a declaration: “in one hand”, “one window”, “green line”, “green road” and so on, and so on, that they did not declare. However, there has been no introduction of facilitation of transit transport and customs transit arrangements. I think this bill is important, but it covers a very narrow circle of goods and possibilities, what is lost and what is possible in Ukraine. That's why I'm calling the government, and I'm hoping that the new minister will come. I note that this complex program, this complex analysis should also be based on those materials that need to be comprehensively examined, must be a comprehensive national programme that will ensure that we get to the State budget and increase the transit of our goods through our country and load additional jobs accordingly. Not in words, but in fact these are our jobs, this is the development of our transit infrastructure capabilities. So I urge you to vote in favour of this bill and, along with those who appear on the profile committee, to work out these observations that may come from our hopes of deputies and, including the ministry, to work out a comprehensive programme to solve this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u49	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u50	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! If I hadn't read this bill, and I've read it after it was supported by Yuri Borisovich Crook, we could have voted for it by now. It's not a compliment, it's just a testimony that the bill has been reported by a man who knows the subject well. But I've read this bill before, so I can say some things. And I know that there's a note, or maybe those who don't want to pass this law, which is going to contribute to some kind of contraband expression. This is completely incorrect and wrong. Because the key position is that these cargoes, these containers are actually at the same point. Right, Yuri Borisovich? Thus, the mechanism itself does not allow it to be used as a product smuggling. For those who are actually involved in smuggling, it is likely that we need to realize that it will eventually come to an end. Because not in the way that, in fact, by obstructing a normal customs procedure, by preventing Ukraine from fulfilling its function as a transit state, they are acting for the benefit of the country at all. And another moment of critical character. There's also something in the notes, and I think it's kind of correct that you're suggesting, Yuri Borisovich, that the Supreme Council should assign a mandate to the State Customs Service. Actually, we can't do that. This is not in the authority of the Supreme Council to give appropriate assignments. This is contrary to our authority, our functions. So here we have to think about this. On the other hand, I believe that a bill aimed at increasing Ukraine’s competitiveness in terms of its ports needs to be supported. Right, Yuri Borisovich said that what we're giving away is very quick to use neighbouring states, including those that are competitive for us in the use of the Danube, first of all, and the Black Sea waters. I think we need to be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u51	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u52	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Goods Transit Act with a view to simplifying customs clearance in cases of transit of cargo in containers arriving and unloading by sea and river transport and does not go beyond one point of entry or customs control in the maritime trading port territory. Note that the bill contains provisions according to which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the State Customs Service of Ukraine are required, within two months from the date of entry into force of this law, to bring their legal acts into conformity with this law and to ensure that the Ministry and other central authorities of the executive branch comply with this law. In our view, the reference to the Ukrainian State Customs Service should be excluded from the text. It should be noted in this connection that according to the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 116 and 113 of the work of ministries and other executive authorities directs and coordinates the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is a higher body in the system of executives. Accordingly, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers issued on July 18, 2007, issue 940 on the approval of the Ukrainian State Customs Service, the Ukrainian State Customs Service, belongs to the central executive authorities. But in general, the faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u53	The discussion is over. Ruslan Petrovich, do you need a closing statement? There's no need for that. Yuri Borisovich, is there a need in the closing word? None. I am voting on the proposal for approval in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Goods Transit Act. Registration number 4270. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:48:01]] For 319 Decision Adopted The draft Social Dialogue Act in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[1440 registration number]] As reported by Vasil Georgievich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u54	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, I asked for the postponement of the 1440 bill last time I asked for the floor. The case is that it was worked on for two years with the participation of the International Labour Organization, conferences and round tables. Four times, the Committee considered a comparative table. But today there is a threat of not accepting it in this room, it will not only be bad for us and it will be embarrassing for international organizations. Therefore, I would ask, like the previous Social Insurance Act, to postpone to the next sessional week.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u55	Dear Vassil Georgiyovich, the proposal is probably correct, but it is desirable that it be formulated earlier, not when it has already been announced for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u56	Alexander Vladimirović, well, there are, you know, situations like this when this danger occurs in the hall before today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u57	Thank you. Come on, please, don't go away now. Dear colleagues, the chairman of the committee to report on the draft Social Dialogue Act in Ukraine for adoption, asks that it be postponed for some time. Is there any objection to such an offer? There's no objection. The decision is adopted by consensus, and the second reading of the draft Social Dialogue Act in Ukraine refers to a term that will be needed to prepare it for consideration in the session hall. Dear colleagues, we are still looking at draft laws again in the first reading. And there's a national MP. Gricenko proposes that all of the following consider a reduced procedure, since we cannot all adopt a decision, the Rules require us to adopt a decision on each project. Therefore, Anatolia Stepanovich's proposal to consider the next draft of Law No. 4528 for consideration under a reduced procedure is put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:50:52]] For 178. Decision taken. A draft Act supplementing the Ukrainian Land Protection Act is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the issue and cancellation of special permits for land cover removal and transfer]] [[Registration number 4528]] Please report by Kulinic Oleg Mikolaiovich, Head of the State Committee on Land Resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u58	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! A draft on the completion of the Ukrainian Land Protection Act was developed in accordance with article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, which stipulates that only laws deal with issues relating to the obtaining of documents of a permissive nature. [[concerning the issue and cancellation of special permits for land cover removal and transfer]] The need for special removal permits is regulated by article 168 of the Land Code, which provides that land users are not entitled to remove and transfer land without special permission. The main purpose of the bill is to resolve, at the legislative level, issues related to the removal, transfer of land cover through the introduction of special permits and the establishment of basic requirements for the extradition procedure, and the cancellation of these permits. The objective can only be achieved through the completion of the Ukraine Law on Land Protection, by placing Article 37 under the symbol “received”. It is necessary to define the basic requirements for the conduct of the extradition procedure and repealing the relevant special permits. This is the content of the additions proposed in the draft law. The bill is in agreement with all interested ministries and departments, including the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. At the same time, in the conclusion of the project, the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council noted that the basic principles of the law should be regulated by a 168 article of the Code of Earth. Taking into account the comments made by the Scientific and Expert Office, we believe that the proposed bill should be regulated at the level of a special law, i.e. the Ukrainian Land Protection Act. And with this law in mind, we would then be able to settle the issue and order of issuing special permits for the removal and transfer of the soil layer, the ground roof. The adoption of this project will contribute to the creation of a transparent and simplified procedure for obtaining permits on a free basis, rational use, protection of land resources, conservation, rational use of fertile soil. The bill is supported by a profile committee. I'd like some backup. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u59	Have a seat, please. Compliments of Bevanko Valeriy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u60	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee on September 8, 2009, reviewed the draft law supplementing the Ukrainian Land Protection Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[concerning the issue and cancellation of special permits for land cover removal and transport]] The introduction of special permits is provided for in article 168 of the Ukraine Code of Land, which provides that the removal and transfer of land cover may be made on the basis of a special permit issued by an authority that exercises State control over the use and protection of land. As the chairman of the committee noted, Mr. Kulinich, who, by the way, was absent when we were considering this bill at our committee meeting, was not. was absent from all successive committees in the last six months, despite the invitation of the committee head. I want to say that this bill is appropriate and that it should be adopted in the first reading. He received the support of our Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. That's why we're counting and proposing this bill on the issue and cancellation of special permits for the removal and transfer of land cover, the Land Protection Bill, registration number 4528, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, should be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u61	Thank you, sit down, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Weaving Roman Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u62	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” Indeed, on the committee we have considered this issue, and in principle we are in favour. But here's a little note. I think that the first reading of this bill can accept it, but it's about making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Code of Land, because the protection of the land and the things in this bill are also referred to in the 168 articles of the Code of Land. Therefore, in principle today we can vote in favour. But then, during consideration of the second reading, appropriate comments should be made to the Codex earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u63	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u64	Thank you. Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, we have every spring, summer and autumn on the side of everyone who leads to Kiev, Kiev, where trucks with black land stand. And no one will understand or explain where the black man is loaded or where the soil cover is taken from, that is, the soil of our nation is severely damaged. And of course, just because there is no Earth cadastre, it is desirable to write about soil protection. We're going to do this with you as soon as possible, but it doesn't prevent us from adopting this bill and asking the President to sign it as soon as possible, so that we can finally, as it suits the civilized state, allocate enough resources in the budget to ensure the implementation of the Land Protection Act, including this bill. So it's all done right here. Let us accept it in the first reading and work on it immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u65	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. The discussion is over. The faction that didn't sign up, Bunny Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u66	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I want you, the national MPs, to understand the essence of this bill. And the whole point of this bill is to liberalize the relationship that relates to the removal and transfer of soil. That's why this bill came into conflict with the Earth Code. And I don't know if it's a plus or a minus, because if this bill is allowed today without permission to remove and transfer land, how it's written for agriculture, for private agriculture, within one area, no one will tell where this land is going. We've already destroyed millions, billions of tons of black lands, because people are building up in the valleys, bringing black lands from other villages, destroying nature, and destroying nature. So I don't think this bill is as positive as anyone here says. I think we need to get out of the Earth code, and then before that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, you have proposed and voted in favour of a reduced procedure. Therefore, I apologize, I am putting to the vote a motion for approval in the first reading of the draft Law supplementing the Law on Land Protection. [[Registration number 4528]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:59:48]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Bevanzenko Valery Fedorovich, what's your offer? Please write down one minute from the factions for further work on this bill. Smitukh Georgiy Evdzimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u68	Garbage, Party of Regions. My personal point of view is that this law should be returned to read again. Why? Because it doesn't cover all the problems that actually seem simple, and I think they're very complicated. Why? You know that in the construction of roads, in the construction of industrial and other objects. The vast number of areas that fall within these areas, so to speak, are located in the fertile land area. And we need to do it in general, in some way, and what we need to do about it, how we can commit those or other owners to use this land as an assignment, that is, either handing it over to the State, or not to trade it, such a wild trade on the outskirts as the colleague spoke, or otherwise. So I suggest that this problem as a whole is, it needs to be considered, but not in such a way that the committee passes this law and the committee does not come and discuss this issue. Return to processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u69	Silent Pavel Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u70	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, the honourable chairman of the committee, I am personally in favour of supporting this bill today, although there is no doubt that the second reading needs to be addressed in order to resolve the problems that are evocative. You know, the land business, not the bulk of it, but the land merchant today, it's worth billions of dollars. If you count how much is being sold in Ukraine today not only on the sidelines, see how much is being preserved around Kiev today, which will then be shipped through all the sandy soils in the spring. We know that this is taking place without permission, we know that this problem is not settled and it is therefore necessary as soon as possible for the profiling committee to make its proposals accordingly, so that we have all the grounds for it before the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u71	Thank you. Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u72	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I want to thank the State Commission for raising this problem, but I would like to propose that this bill be sent back to read again. Why? So we can get complex offers. First, we reconciled this bill with the Earth Code. On the other hand, they did write the mechanisms in the direction. It has already been said that we are entering an era of construction of many highways. We continue to create the material infrastructure of a democratic society, and we also need additional land. The amount of land transferred increases in geometric progress. So I don't think today's acceptance is going to give us the answers to those questions. On the contrary, if we want to resolve this problem, let us do so: To reread the first reading and to take into account all that is said here. And such bills should not be discussed in a simplified way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, after the exchange of thoughts, I would like to make a statement. Today, we have considered the third draft of the short-term law after the strong proposals of the national MPs and the corresponding vote in the hall. What is the point of the proposal? So the head of the committee who was making the report suggested that the decision be reinstated in the first reading. The national deputies Smith and the Hare suggest that they send for further work and read the first time again in view of the fact that it is a government project. I think it's obvious that if he doesn't approve in the first reading today, he'll be called off, like all government projects. That's what's going to happen automatically. The proposal by the first head of the committee of Valerius Fedorovich Bevzenka to return to the decision on this bill in the first reading puts the vote to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:05:11]] For 283 We're back. I am voting on the proposal for approval on the basis of the draft Act supplementing the Ukrainian Land Protection Act. [[Registration number 4528]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:05:39]] For 307 Decision taken. I'd like the committee to prepare the draft law for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture is being announced. [[Registration number 5277]] There was a suggestion to consider it as a reduced procedure. And I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[17:06:26]] For-63 The decision is not taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Agricultural Policy Hadzalo Jaroslav Mihajlovich, co-rapporteur of the Head of the Committee on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations, Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine, designed by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy with the aim of eliminating the technical error that was made when the last amendments were made to the Act, which was introduced on 4 June 2009. The above amendments to the Ukrainian Law provide for the deletion of paragraph 13.3.1 of article 13(3) of the Act, which refers to the calculation procedure of the Ministry of Agriculture’s average interest on bank loans to set the size of the loan subsidy. The need to delete this standard is due to changes made to the law, which was introduced on June 4, 2009, and it is determined that a credit subsidy is granted in a national currency of at least 1.5 percent of the National Bank’s and foreign currency’s account rate of at least 10 percent of the annual, short - term and long - term loans. In connection with the above, please delete this calculation. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has given a positive conclusion to the bill and is invited to accept it as a basis for the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u76	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. I ask you to put on the board the name of the national MPs who are registered. Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u77	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Please tell me, can you give an example or statistics for the past year, which were allocated by region, were they fully provided, according to the 2009 budget, or were they not? If not, for what reasons was the Budget Law not implemented in this part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u78	Thank you. I would like to say that the 2009 results show that the total cost has not been allocated and most of the programmes that were expected to be financed are underfunded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u79	Thank you. Have a seat, please. There are no more willing to ask questions. Deputy Head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, Ribuk Sergey Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u80	Thank you. Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, a respected colleague of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is required to amend the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture, as the agrarian committee pointed out, since in this case it regulates differences in the granting of a credit subsidy to agricultural enterprises. [[No. 5277]] I may repeat, as the reporter said, that the current law states: “the order of calculation of such an average percentage is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers Decision.” We propose to exclude because a law adopted by the Supreme Council on 4 June 2009 states that a credit subsidy is granted in national currency of at least one and a half percent of the National Bank’s and foreign currency’s account rate of at least 10 percent of the year’s short-, medium- and long-term loans, thus losing the purpose of calculating such a weighted average that the law requires of the Cabinet of Ministers. [[No. 1447]] The main scientific and expert management has concluded that this law can be adopted as a basis in the first reading, and the committee in February of this year approved this decision to support and we ask you to support these changes, because they, I repeat, are also improving the mechanisms for supporting enterprises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to sign up. If not, we'll see now. Well, procedure is procedure. No one wants to ask a fellow reporter. Please sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions, followed by Yuri Kostenko, followed by John the Rabbit, followed by Slobodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u82	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Garbage, Party of Regions. Of course, if, and most of you certainly do not, and have been in the communities of our rural area, where a third of the population lives, you know that our people living in the village are no longer crying because they are not getting it, but they are laughing. Because they do not believe that such support can be. I asked questions and I didn't get an answer from the deputy minister on my question, and how many programs were implemented under the 2009 budget? And I'll tell you more. On the committee we discussed this issue and most of the programs that were aimed at supporting, in fact, the agricultural producer were not executed, and some were not funded at all. That's the first question. The second question. It's about the loan rate. Let's not lie. Indeed, the State has committed itself to offset one and a half percent of the credit rate offered by commercial banks or 10 percent of the foreign currency. Who are we financing? Are we funding a village or are we funding the same banks that are corrupt, not Ukrainian, who are not working for Ukraine? Because you know that today there are about 30 percent of the average rate in Ukrainian. where people who work in the village don't have the ability to get these loans because conditions are very harsh. It's the state, on the one hand, that we predict the cost of paying off the loan, we pay the banks for, so to speak, anti-Ukrainian work, because they take advantage of it, including our farms that work in the agrarian sector, and at the expense of the state. So it would be better if the Ministry of Agrarian Politics offered a mechanism where, in fact, if the state provided the benefits, they, these benefits, were direct without a middleman, without a bank, which appears to be the middleman, like a parasite, sitting on that farm. So I think that, of course, we need to support this law, they have any possibility or part of it that they can get these loans, some part that has connections, or that has possibilities, but most citizens or most of the host entities have no such practical possibilities. And most importantly, I think that a new minister will come along with the committee, our committee of profile, and we need to review the policy in this area. So I'm counting on how an exception I can encourage you to support in the first reading, but it doesn't raise the question, and it doesn't solve the complex problems that apply to the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u83	Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u84	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that all these readings need to be taken away from the law today, but it is time for us to start a real discussion about supporting agriculture. And we need to start talking about this from an evaluation of state policy. Because if we scan or analyze all these support measures that the State is doing today in relation to agricultural subjects, we will see a striking difference. Large businesses receive much more support than farmers do. And I'm not talking about personal farming, which is essentially not getting anything at all. So today, talking about equality of tenure before the law, before state support -- that's a person who doesn't know the situation in the country. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that there's a bill 2444 in the Supreme Council, where it's about personal agriculture: income tax. Since private agriculture is deprived of the benefits of large farms, they pay for the transportation congregation, and they take 15 percent, in fact, out of the circulation. This practically destroys them. And we can see that today these small individual farms that have an area of up to two hectares and can still join the pie -- and if for the Western Ukraine region it's within one hectare -- that means that these farms are completely not competitive today, they're being destroyed, they're not being a base for farming -- and we're in a lot of trouble. Although we know that up to 90 percent of vegetables are produced in such farms, many animals are produced. So I would like this bill, 2444, to be passed to the Supreme Council. “ What are we going to do? For we are once again entering the new agricultural year – and we do not know what we will do this year and how the authorities will look at our perspective.” So I'd very much like to ask you, honourable national MPs, when you're considering at least one of those agricultural support laws, that this bill will eventually go to the Supreme Council and we'll look at and resolve the issue of supporting individual agriculture, and we'll establish all of these relationships. If we're talking about supporting the village, it's clear that we wouldn't be limited to loans today, even though this is a question number one for the village today, and we might need to get these issues off the list of jurisdiction of the Cabinet of Ministers to write in law to regulate the boundaries where this support can be implemented. That's right. But the main question for us today is markets, and each of you knows that today the village is failing because we don't have an internal market for our agricultural production. Yesterday, we were and saw here a plate of 460,000 tons of meat and sub-products were imported into Ukraine last year for about half a billion dollars. Can you please tell me how our agricultural producer can resist such an attack? And it wasn't just yesterday, it was in 2008, where up to 600,000 tons were imported, it was still, when the Yanukovich government was in charge, it was before and so on. So I want you and I not to be dealing with the holes today, so that we don't solve the problem of this very local support of the village. I want us to have a very skilled conversation, starting with politics to specific things. I am convinced today that money alone will not be able to fully structure agricultural production, that this process needs to be managed by the state, that we have to literally construct these farms, that we have to make a decision at the level of the Supreme Council, that the main production unit in the village is the farmer, or that we are going to the latifunda, that is big land ownership. So the state does not want to support these landowners. So those who go to another field, the small agricultural producers, they're just doomed to destruction, and that's a ruined Ukrainian village, and that's the root of the Ukrainian nation, and the tradition, the custom that always lived in the Ukrainian village. So I think this situation needs to be done with a dot. But I have such an offer to the Agrarian Committee, and I have such an offer to the Supreme Council to discuss the issues of the village in a very complex way, and to understand that we are a European state, and we have no prospect of developing a large amount of land tenure. We will have no prospects if we sell the right to rent, we will have no prospect if we sell the land to legal persons, not to natural persons and only to Ukrainian citizens. And I see these trends. I see these trends in both water and land. So let's do this dot-like thing today. But I urge you to work seriously to save the village as a branch and as a cradle of the Ukrainian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. Is the reporter asking for a closing word? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt as the basis of the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. Please vote. [[17:22:18]] For 334 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture is being announced for consideration. [[on improving agricultural support mechanisms]] [[Registration number 5471]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Jury Mikola Volodymyrovich. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u86	I'll report to the committee, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u87	If you insist, I'll put it to a vote, consider it as a reduced procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[17:23:19]] For 185 Decision taken. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u88	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, is submitting to your consideration a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine. [[on improving agricultural support mechanisms]] [[Registration number 5471]] In recent years, there have been widespread cases of early repayments by buyers of agricultural products, of debt to businesses. And we have a big coalition with you: on the one hand, the state supports finance from the government's agro-industry complex, and if we look at the completion of the process, it turns out that the state is lending powerful food networks, wholesale networks. Why do I say that? Because trade networks have now reached a situation that is practically accounted for by suppliers of agricultural and food products for 80 to 150 days. And it turns out that the agrarian sector and the processing sector that produces food products are lending trading networks for more than six months. Taking this into account and taking into account the complex composition of the agricultural sector and in the processing sector, the bill stipulates that a group of 1-24 undertakes to provide fines and pennies for the timely calculation of commercial networks with suppliers of agricultural products and processed products, i.e. food, to limit the calculation to 40 days, taking into account the terms of the natural nature of the agricultural and food products.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u89	Finish up, please. Oh, and from the committee at the same time. Two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u90	The Chief Executive proposes that the bill be adopted in the first reading. And our committee has considered this bill and is also proposing to adopt this bill in the first reading, taking into account that it is a sufficiently important bill that regulates the timing of trade networks with food suppliers and agricultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u91	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Sergey Rybuk, please. Igor Sharov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u92	Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, I would respectfully ask you to support this bill and the committee really supported it. Why? Because agricultural producers are, for a number of reasons, and we all know, forced to sell their products almost always without pay. And it came to the point that buyers are mass abusers of the good soul and nature and the inexorability of the peasant, and then, to put it mildly, they forget to count with him not only at the right time, but in general. Here you have to put everyone on a level of condition, and if you even buy without a previous fee, the corresponding term is set by law, this bill, which should not be counted by the buyer for the goods delivered according to the terms of the contract. So we're here in market conditions to settle these issues and, God willing, we're going to help agricultural workers, we're going to help producers trade their products, not for damage, but for themselves and for society. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u93	Igor Sharov is handing over the right to speak to Sergey Tereshuk. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u94	Sergey Tereshuk, Block of Lithuania. Ladies and gentlemen, these last few days, agriculture has seemed to be a good crop, given that last year they received a good crop. Although it is likely that more than how many people deserve it, it is how many weather factors it is. But perhaps it should not be comforting. You remember yesterday when you called the figures where our country completely depends on food imports -- half a million tons of meat, 46,000 tons of milk products -- all this evidence that we are completely dependent on other countries. Agriculture should be responsible for food security. Sadly, it does not work today. If you look at the profitability of agricultural enterprises, it's essentially falling down, there's big problems. And without State support, our producer can't compete with a Western farmer who's being generously credited by the European Union. A peasant doesn't need much. First of all, we need to keep prices stable, prices stable over the course of the year, which make it possible to get profits, and the farmer needs to get loans. It was very good of them to support the previous bill. Our faction appeals to you, Your Honor, to support this bill. One thing, bank loans that not everyone can take. But even more problematic is getting the money for the production. Supermarkets today have a monopoly position on the market. And those who produce the product stand in turn and ask for the money to be returned. I'm not saying that we have to fight to get this product in order to put it on the shelf. That's a huge problem. So we ask for the support of the bill. But there is one condition. It's not easy to walk 40 days, and looking at that term has to be at least as much as the product can be stored on the shelves of shops, on the counters. In view of this, the bill can be supported and will help our peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u95	Pavlov Mojčan, faction of the "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko"
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'll mention the questionable paintings when I'm moving across Ukraine in any direction, whether I'm going to Volin, whether I'm in the North in the Chernigian region, or in the South of Ukraine, it's the rained-down land, destroyed by farms, as if it were an atomic war, and it's all ruined. And I don't know when a Ukrainian village can be reborn. If we solve this problem with such segments, we will long “touch” what the Rabbit said, those “holes” that are not self-made. I'm looking in the west of Ukraine, where I was such a Yagodin processing tool. The complex, it's left with the same stones. Where's our pottery? Where our hop - growing branch is also Volin, the Plains region of Zitomirsk and Volinsk. Where did it all go? It's all ruined, it's just like he blew it all up. And if I support, Sergey Mikolaiovich, the need for such a solution is certain today. When I look at these programs that show us on television today, is there a Ukrainian color? It's all imported: beetroot, potato problem, deficit of any agricultural product, any. I would like, at all, my esteemed agrarians, led by those who represent Catherine Timofievna, to consider a comprehensive program to save the agrarian sphere. Because what the Rabbit said when all the European non-use comes in and we poison the nation, we do it, we shorten its age. Consider how complex it is to accept this program of saving the village! It should be for no one! Think of those who want to live on this earth! I will support you, no doubt. But I would like to and insist that you finally consider a complex program.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has been concluded, and the committee is proposing to accept it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine (in order to improve support mechanisms for agricultural enterprises) (registration number 5471). Please vote. [[17:32:52]] For 333 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws on the definition of the cost of construction involved in the cost of utilities, institutions and organizations. [[4406]] People’s deputies are asked to consider the bill in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. 4606. [[17:33:35]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the reporter, the First Deputy Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Berkut Anatoly Vyvodovic, co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Economic Policy Committee, Gayman Oleg Eisikovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u98	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, according to current legislation, the cost of production, labor and services in the process of investment activities is determined by free prices and tariffs, including through competitions and trades. However, according to part two of article 17 of the Ukrainian Investment Act, in the construction of buildings involving the state budget, the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local budgets, and the costs of state enterprises, institutions and organizations, the cost of construction is determined by, I emphasise, the mandatory use of state building standards. The same applies to the part of the first article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices and Part Two of Article 12 of this Act concerning the formation of a cost-effective regulatory framework, the determination of the procedure for its application in construction, the monitoring of customer compliance, projects, construction organizations and other participants in the investment activity of regulatory documents and the calculation of the cost of building objects. Thus, enterprises, institutions and organizations of municipal property, according to current legislation, can use the cost of building on their own discretion, using the “free price” thesis, which illogically and often leads to abuse. The government has therefore prepared a bill to amend part two of article 12 and part one of article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices, and part two of article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Investment Activities. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u99	Thank you, too. Please sign up for the question, dear colleagues. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Garbage Gregory, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u100	Garbage, Party of Regions. Dear reporter, I have a question of the following nature. Please tell me, how did this law work out for an object such as the reconstruction of the Olympic Stadium? And how did it happen that companies that don't have manufacturing and no experience in the power of manufacturing and no experience at work won a competition? That's the first question. And the second question. How did it happen after this object that its cost is already changing three or four times and everything is increasing, and it's increasing, and it's increasing? Please explain how this is happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u101	Thank you for asking. And what I'm saying is that the cost of the Olympic NSC, given that this object is being built at the expense of the state budget, is determined solely on the basis of mandatory cost-effective normative documents. That's the first one. Now the second one. As far as the object’s value is concerned. This project resulted in a technical economic justification that was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in the amount of 2 billion 100, if not mistaken, 113 million dollars and this value has not been reviewed today. The project was developed and the Cabinet of Ministers approved only the technical part of the project. And the cost has not been adjusted today, and labor documentation is being developed to date. I think it's almost as soon as it's full of clarity with the cost of the equipment and the equipment it stores.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u102	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u103	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Poltavščina. My dear reporter, every year, Minregionbud determines the size of the salary that operates in the construction sector. When Investors come or invest in utility or budget costs and sign a construction contract, and they're all trying to lower wages -- that's a mass phenomenon in Ukraine. Whether the bill provides for the protection of the rights of workers, simple builders, who receive much less wages than they need.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u104	The point is that according to the valid regulatory framework, if a cost of $2,000,300 is spent under the average level of 3.8, which is a requirement for constructing objects at the expense of these very sources that I have identified. Including in this case, if this bill is adopted and for utilities. I want to say that it's too small, and today we're going to have to look at it, and I have all the calculations today that say that this wage of 3.8 would be 2,000 750 dollars. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u105	Thank you, too. Time is running out, and the questions are exhausted, to be exact. Heiman Oleg Eisikovich, head of the Committee on Economic Policy. Who from the committee will be speaking? I, the secretariat, please note why you do not ensure the presence of people who are supposed to provide information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. At the same time, I would like to sign up for the speeches of my distinguished colleagues to express my point of view on this bill. I ask you to put the names of the national MPs on the board. Garbage Gregory, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that changes to the existing legislative field that regulates the use of budgetary resources in construction at the expense of the central budget and the local budget should be made because the abuse in this part is very significant. But with regard to this law, I believe that it is imperfect, it does not cover all the problems that arise today in the use of funds. It does not provide sufficient control over their use. So I'm counting on this law to be sent for further processing. This is my motive based on the following reasons. In recent years, we have seen that the national complexes that have been built at the expense of government funds have been severely abused. Yeah, I asked a question, it's about Olympic Stadium, and we're going to be witnesses with you that are very serious in time, and I see there's a problem with using funds to involve subcontractors that have no experience. This also applies to the use of the State Budget’s natural resources, which was directed towards Western areas last year, you remember that the Supreme Council, in turn, made decisions on the use of these funds and control. I'm hoping that the control committee, which is made up of this, will report on the use of funds. There are very serious abuses, you remember, we have only considered in the Lviv region. This refers to the use of funds used to build monuments called famine, and there are also serious questions about the misuse of funds, and many, many other examples. I am counting on the fact that the use of funds, when there is a crisis in the country, that state-owned objects of national or other order are essential, needs special control. Control not only by using them, but by controlling the responsibility for using them. Unfortunately, in recent years we have heard no trial of anyone being, so to speak, accused or charged with criminal liability for abuse in this area. And the cost, if you look at the 2008-2009 budget and so on, was significant. So I propose not to support this law, send it to work, and together we need to solve it in a complex, and in a complex it needs a completely different approach, because the issue of national importance for building objects, schools, kindergartens, bridges and so forth will become more and more mature in our country. And control here on the side of the state must be more severe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u107	Yes, dear fellows! There are no more who want to speak. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the definition of the cost of construction, which is done with the participation of municipal enterprises, institutions and organizations. Registration number 4606. Please vote. [[17:44:31]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Once again, I propose to vote on Bill 4606, please be sure. [[17:44:58]] For-83 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the removal of classified material media]] [[Registration number 5070]] The rapporteur is Deputy Minister Bogdan Andri Josipovich. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. I would like to vote on the motion to consider this bill with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:45:46.]] For-187 Decision taken. We continue the evening session for 15 minutes, or up to 18 hours for 15 minutes. Please, Andrew Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u108	Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code is aimed at bringing part three of article 178 and part two of article 179 of the Criminal Procedure Code in accordance with articles 1 and 15 of the Act on State Secret and disseminating the provisions of the Code to all material media of classified information. [[concerning the removal of classified material media]] Thus, article 178 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides for the grounds and order for granting an exemption, and article 179 of the Code, which recognizes the obligation to issue items and documents, provides for the procedure for carrying out the said actions only with regard to documents constituting a State secret. At the same time, article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Secret provides the term “material media of classified information”, which includes any material object, including physical fields, which contain information that constitutes a state secret, reflected in texts, signs, symbols, images, signals, technical decisions, etc. The project then proposes to amend articles 178 and 179 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, providing for the possibility of removing and issuing not only documents constituting State secrets but also other material media of classified information. Taking into account the lack of comments and the overall positive assessment of the bill, please support it in the first reading on the basis and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u109	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u110	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues of the national MPs, the representative of the government has given you the essence of the bill. The point is that the actual wording of articles 178 and 179 of the Criminal Procedure Code uses the term documents that contain a state or bank secret. In view of the adoption of the State Secret Law, this concept has been changed to material media of classified information. Therefore, in this context, the word “documents” in articles 178 and 179 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is proposed to be brought into line with the terminology of the law, which was adopted in time later. The committee supports the bill and proposes to support it as a basis, and generally as a law. That is also the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u111	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the name of the national MPs on the information board. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u112	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, the purpose of the bill is to bring part three of article 178 and part two of article 179 of the Criminal Procedure Code into line with articles 1 and 15 of the Ukrainian State Secret Act and to extend the code to all material media. For this purpose, part three of Article 178 suggests that the words “documents constituting a national” should be replaced by the words “material mediums of classified information or documents containing”. In the second part of article 179, the words “documents containing data that constitute a national or.” shall be replaced by the words “material media secret information or documents containing”. The proposed changes to the Criminal Procedure Code will help improve the procedure for extracting classified material media, since in this case it is possible to remove and issue not only documents that establish the state secret, but also other material media of classified information. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? Peter Stepanovich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u114	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express two thoughts on the document that we are currently considering. First of all, with regard to the content of the law itself, the content of the draft law is quite clear. It's about things that are very technological: bringing two laws into line, let's say, early acceptance of what's been adopted lately. And there's absolutely no objection. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to make one more point, given that we are now considering a government bill. In view of the fact that we have a certain amount of legislation today, which has been passed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it is quite interesting that one government is retired and the other government is not yet formed, perhaps in that government that will work tomorrow and tomorrow, will have grounds to look at those bills and to recall some of them. Maybe we have a point today not to stimulate the process of governmental consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once a new government has been formed, the government bills will be considered repealed, as well as after the President's inauguration, bills from the President of Ukraine have been revoked. And from that point of view, I turned to Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. Now we have to work, the power has to be constant. Dear colleagues, the performances are over. There is a vote on the proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine for the extraction of classified material media. Registration number 5070. Please vote. [[17:52:41.]] For 219 The decision is not taken. I am voting for the return to the draft Law registration number 5070. Please vote. [[17:53:06]] For 246 We're back on the bill. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine for the extraction of classified material media. Please vote. [[17:53:37]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a law. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u116	I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine concerning the removal of material media of classified information. [[Registration number 5070]] Please vote. [[17:54:16]] For 253 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the Participation of Ukraine in Peacekeeping Operations is under review. [[Registration number 4794]] I'm voting on a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Well, we won't take it tonight, we'll take it tomorrow. What difference does it make? [[17:54:50]] For 205 Decision taken. Reporter – Deputy Foreign Minister Gorin Alexander Olegovich, co-rapporteur – Head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u117	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You have been introduced by the Ukrainian Act, which defines the arrangements for the financial security of the peacekeeping contingent and peacekeeping personnel, which is being sent by Ukraine to participate in international peacekeeping operations. The bill is prepared for the execution of the respective tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and is based on the results of an audit carried out by the Court of Auditors of Ukraine of the participation of the staff of the internal affairs authorities of Ukraine in peacekeeping operations. The bill will provide an opportunity to improve legislation in part of the above-mentioned issue, as there is today a disagreement between the current practice of financing the costs mentioned and the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's participation in international peace operations. Thus, Ukraine’s Act on Ukraine’s participation in international peacekeeping operations states that order and sources of funding are determined by approval of Ukraine’s Supreme Council for Ukraine’s participation in an international peacekeeping operation. On this point, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves the decision only on the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent and adequately identifies only the sources of its funding, as provided for by the bill submitted for your consideration. In doing so, the resolution of the financial arrangements of the peacekeeping contingent and peacekeeping personnel is governed by the relevant decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the basis of decisions by the President of Ukraine in the deployment of peacekeeping personnel and the Supreme Council of Ukraine in part of the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent on Ukraine's participation in an international peacekeeping operation. In connection with this bill, it is stipulated that the financial arrangements of the peacekeeping contingent and peacekeeping personnel are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is in line with Kabmin’s authority and active practice. The implementation of this law does not require additional material and other expenses. The draft law of Ukraine has been accepted without notice by all ministries, the National Court of Auditors of Ukraine, which has proposed a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u118	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u120	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, head of the National Security and Defence Committee. Please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u121	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, the law does not change the decision-making procedure for direction; it remains as it is; the law only implements the proposals of the Court of Auditors, which drew attention to the fact that the Cabinet should determine the funding arrangements for the deployment of the contingent. And it's always been true, all the governments and Timoshenko and Yanukovich, Yehanurov always did. Therefore, a request to support this bill, if agreed, is made immediately and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u122	Thank you. Do you need to discuss it, dear colleagues? None. Please, Gregory Smythech. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u123	Vladimir Mikhailovich, if anyone thinks it's a simple question, I don't agree with this question. Why? Because if we're talking about funding our contingent that's going abroad in one country or another, so to speak, positions, one country or another. This is clearly a source of funding. And you know that funding is only done in accordance with article 95 through the budget. And unfortunately, the short-term procedure does not allow me to ask a professional, so to speak, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Profiles, and how does this matter fit in with the Code of Budget? That's the first one. And the second question. As determined. Will Ukraine benefit from today’s experience through its missions to a country where ours or losses or incomes are directed? Because our country as a leader between countries that are heading to very many continents, yes, its military or civilian on one or the other, and we don't know exactly the balance: and what will Ukraine get, in addition to its reputation and in addition to its praises? So I certainly refuse to accept it as a whole, because these questions need to be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u124	Dear colleagues. Yes, Oleg Zarubinski, please. Then John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u125	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. You know, I'd like to say, on the contrary, in this case, that what's proposed is going to be more clearly defined by the order of financing. I'm saying this to Gregory Eudemiovich. It must be that the Cabinet should determine the order, for the Supreme Council has always identified sources of funding. And there are three options for funding Ukraine's participation in peacekeeping operations: this is entirely on the basis of the State budget of Ukraine – "a" or the first. The second option is from the National Budget of Ukraine with mandatory compensation from those organizations, such as the United Nations and the OSCE or partial reparations, and there were still cases where this is done entirely at the expense of international organisations or regional organizations. So I don't see any underwater currents in this option, it just defines the order of financing itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u126	John the Rabbit, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u127	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Clearly, this proposal is designed to actually develop two institutions, such as the funding order and the definition of sources of financing. Of course, sources of funding are defined by the Supreme Council and by legislation, and in this case, with regard to the peacekeeping contingent, it is for the Supreme Council to make such decisions. As far as peacekeeping personnel are concerned, this is a different concept than a peacekeeping contingent. Here we have the rule that the sources of financing for peacekeeping personnel are determined by the order established by legislation. In fact, the financial arrangements for peacekeeping contingents and peacekeeping personnel are now determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. That is to say, we can make such a general conclusion that these proposals simplify the funding arrangements for both peacekeeping and peacekeeping personnel. And that's probably the right thing to do. Because life requires a more globalized solution. Although, I think we're going to have to go back in for a while and see what order to finance has chosen the Cabinet of Ministers to make our staff make sure our peacekeepers are properly provided. Because it's not a secret that our peacekeepers, our staff, always get less money than other people get. So I think we're going to go back to the operation of this law, these changes. And today, I think we just have to accept this procedure and the responsibility to put it more clearly on one or the other institutions. On the one hand, the Supreme Council, on the other, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I'd like you to look at the changes that we're talking about. We should only be able to observe what the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is actually doing. And to say that it's a huge cost, it's not worth it, because there's a conclusion here and there's a committee on government budget issues. It is quite positive. We don't have to go on with these questions. Therefore, taking into account the discussion that has taken place, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's participation in international peace operations. [[Registration number 4794]] Please vote. [[18:03:41]] For 296 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee. One minute. The committee proposes that it be accepted as a whole. I would like to ask Gregory Eudkoymovich Smitush to withdraw the warning if possible so that we can accept it as a whole, since this will only lead to a postponement of consideration of the matter. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal of a committee on the adoption of the draft Law as a whole as a law, namely, to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's participation in international peacekeeping operations. [[Registration number 4794]] Please vote. [[18:04:32]] For 310 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask your attention to consider another law that has been prepared by the National Security and Defence Committee, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization and Mobilization. [[on the execution of mobilization tasks/procurements]] [[Registration number 5069]] I would then ask Anatolia Stepanovich Grizzenka to give a brief conclusion to the committee and then we. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, I would like, if I may, to agree with the committee's proposal, which was unanimous, and without discussion to accept, but only in the first reading, to allow us to work on the comments made by the Scientific and Expert Office. I'd like some backup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m1.u130	Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Preparation and Mobilisation. [[on the execution of mobilization tasks/procurements]] [[Registration number 5069]] Please vote. [[18:06:05]] For 304 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 o'clock, and we'll start by considering the issues that were set out on the fourth floor for a discussion that we haven't been able to consider. Thanks for the job.
