ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u1	Does the system work? [[B in m in s a l in]] Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited good morning, distinguished deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! [[B in m in s a l in]] People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:01:26]] They're registered. [[B in m in s a l in]] They registered in the 211 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable National MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honourable National Deputies, on April 26, 2010, the Central Election Commission registered Ukrainian national deputies elected on September 30, 2007, in a multi-mandatory national constituency. [[B in m in s a l in]] In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath, please the National Deputy of Ukraine, Demchisin Vasil Vasilovich. Come on, make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u2	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, and to taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u3	To make an oath, I invite the Ukrainian national deputy Musa Oresta Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u5	To make an oath, I invite the national MP, Romanyuk Mikol Prokopovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u6	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u7	To make an oath, the national deputy, Zurka Petra Ivanovich, was invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u8	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u9	To make an oath, I invite national deputy Gusarov Sergio Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u10	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. People's MP Gusarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u11	To make an oath to the rostrum, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vastin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u12	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u13	To make an oath, I invite the national deputy of Ukraine, Yegorov Aleksandra Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u14	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u15	To make an oath, I invite the Ukrainian national deputy Stolar Vadim Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u16	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u17	To make an oath, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kovalevska Yulia Sergiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u18	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u19	To make an oath, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexandr Rostislavovich, to join us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u20	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u21	To make an oath, I invite Zubanov Vladimir Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u22	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u23	To make an oath to the rostrum, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fomin Alexandr Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u24	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u25	The honourable national MPs thus took the oath of full status, namely: Demšin Vasil Vasilovic, Muz Orest Pavlović, Romanyuk Mikola Prokopovich, Zurko Petrovich, Gusarov Sergey Mikolajovich, Vashutin Sergey Ivanovich, Yegorov Alexander Mikolajovich, Stolar Vadim Mihajlovich, Kovalevska Julia Sergiyovna, Kazyanuk Alexander Rostislavovich, Zubanov Vladimir Aleksandrich and Fomin Alexander Viktorovich. I ask the secretariat to issue the cards and necessary documents to the newly elected deputies who have just taken an oath. [[Applause]] I now announce: in accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to my personal signature, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine as part of the coalition of the deputy factions “Stability and Reform” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call of Sidelnik Ivan Ivanovich. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, according to the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Tuesday for presentations by authorized factions with announcements, messages, and information. Please sign up for the performance. Please sign up for the performance. Please put your name on the information board. Vašil Fedorovich, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u26	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! One of the key tasks announced by the political forces represented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the fight against poverty. Poverty, as a social phenomenon today, has permeated almost every aspect of our lives, to a greater or lesser extent, both in the city and in the village, as evidenced by such data. We have the highest disease in Europe and the lowest life expectancy: 62 years in men. The average wage is several times lower than in neighbouring countries and is 50 euros. While Poland has 307 euros, Czech Republic has 316, Turkey has 318 euros. Social standards, namely: subsistence minimum, minimum wage, minimum pension, are practically balanced on the poverty line. [[B in m in s a l in]] The paradox of Ukrainian poverty is that even among the working population, about 14 percent do not eat. Their food and household expenses are lower than the cost of living. [[B in m in s a l in]] The rate of growth in real wages has slowed since 2005. The biggest decline in wages in recent years has been observed in industrial areas of Zaporozhye, Donetsk, Dnipropetrov region, where production has decreased significantly and unemployment has increased. Up to 1.5 billion dollars have gone into debt on wages. What is the solution to this situation? And what needs to be done to overcome poverty and to bring Ukraine closer to successful states. The first thing proposed by the People's Party, our faction, is to focus the efforts of the Supreme Council on legislative security, the implementation of structural reforms in the economy, the reduction of energy efficiency in production, the acceleration of the development of priority sectors, of course, including the agro-industrial complex. The faction’s deputies have worked on a number of legislative acts aimed at overcoming poverty, primarily by increasing industry and agricultural production. Today, there is time and need to be considered in the Supreme Council by the Bills of Deputies of our faction, including some urgent measures aimed at increasing social protection for the population, preventing violations of labour rights and paying for work in the context of the financial and economic crisis, and public regulation of consumer prices, which are of vital social importance to the population, health financing and others. To curb inflation and keep prices from ever increasing in the consumer market last year, we passed a law on government regulation of the agricultural market. It enables us to fill the consumer basket of our citizens to meet decent food standards. This law also provides for further development of the agro-industrial complex, and today this bill requires State support. And once this law is in place, the results will directly reflect on the product market’s saturation with quality products of its own production, and then the need to import milk from Poland and sugar from Brazil or Cuba will be eliminated. Our faction and superintendents will insist on solving the problems of overcoming poverty and increasing the well-being of all our people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u27	National Deputy Final, faction of the Party of the Regions. ( [[B in m in s a l in]] Final, microphone. Yuri Miroshnichenko, please microphone. Aah!? Vadim Koleschenko, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions, will be followed by Yuri Carmazin. Please, there's a microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Today we see this spectacle played by the opposition, who thinks that it has not remained in power and will not be able to drink the budget cow for the next 15 years. They know that problem number one is criminal cases for the budget that was broken. Today, however, question number one for our State is the issue of budget adoption and the issue of addressing the problems that we were facing because of the unbalanced budgetary policy of the previous Government. Today, the issue of the Black Sea fleet is not only a question of $40 billion that will remain in Ukraine's economy and will work for its development, but also the survival of 23,000 families of sevastopols and billions of investments in the city's economy annually. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Black Sea fleet for Sevastopol today is stability, money, human protection. This represents 28 per cent of the local budget, 23,000 jobs, and confidence in the near future for the people who have this work. And if we're smart enough to do this, we need to figure out what we want from the fleet. If we are trying to expel him, let us count and determine how we will create more than 20,000 jobs for the Sewastopols. In the medium term, the creation of one job costs up to $70,000. Today, Ukraine's economy has not been able to invest more than a billion dollars in job creation. That's the first one. And the second. By the time that money comes, tens of thousands of Sebastopols will be without means. Therefore, any well-balanced normal policy should think of its people, of the inhabitants of our State, and not of the money that came from Gosdep. No, it's that kind of money today, and it's a good idea to talk. And this position is often not seen from Kiev, especially the so-called nationalist, but it is clearly felt by local governments and by the common people. On 24 April, for example, the Sevastopol City Council decided to refer the Sevastopol Mountain Council to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to extend and ratify the agreement on the residence of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine. In its decision, the City Council expressed its support for the signed agreement on 21 April this year. The text of the approved decision states that the Black Sea fleet plays a major role in the development of the city's socio-economic infrastructure. There are some 20,000 seamen operating in the fleet. The extension of the fleet's presence on Ukrainian territory is a solution to the problem of European collective security. This is what President Viktor Janukovic and President Medvedev of Russia say. These are the people who are concerned about collective security. At the same time, the European Union made it clear that the extension of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine did not in any way interfere with Ukraine's Euro-Station and Euro-Integration. The representatives of the NATO bloc have likewise stated that this is an internal issue of the Ukrainian State and in no way impedes the cooperation of the Russian leadership and our State with other political, political and economic blocs. Therefore, for any sane person, it is clear that the signing of the CF contract is a minimum price reduction of $100 per thousand cubic metres. This means that this year all social guarantees will be fulfilled, higher pensions and salaries will be paid, we will compensate for those pensions and salaries that have not been implemented since November of last year by the outgoing Government. Of course, the opposition is furious because it understands that we will fulfil our obligations to the people of Ukraine. And the industry, working, will grow our economy. Therefore, not only this year, but the next year and all subsequent years will be years not only of stabilization, but of the years of development of our State, where human rights go beyond the interests of political forces, beyond the interests of individual political figures, because everyone is the head of our State, and Viktor Yanukovic will do everything to ensure that his programme “Ukraine for People” works. We will vote here today in favour of the documents required by the people of Ukraine and the future of our nation. Hail Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u29	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u30	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! The great electorate! I'm talking to you about what's going on in the Supreme Council today. When there were 211 votes on the board, we allowed ourselves to swear by our colleagues. We humiliated our colleagues because it was supposed to be 226. And it is only then that people can be led to an oath. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have illegally brought in 12 of our colleagues who are not to blame for what happened. You just couldn't open a meeting when you didn't have 226. Now I would now like to turn to Parliament's leadership to ask that Parliament be freed from outsiders. This is what Deputy Prime Minister Sovkovic is today, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kluev, who is currently in charge of the process. I have great respect for you, Your Honor, please go to the government and take care of yourself. There are a lot of serious matters. I remember in 96 when we were discussing how and how to be the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine. How much of a foreign boot to trample on Ukrainian land in the first place!? And then I am proud to be the author of part seven of article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states: “In Ukraine, no foreign troops are allowed”. We predicted the temporaryity of paragraph 14 of the Transitional Regulations, the temporaryity of this action. Because the first text was written down by 2017. Yes, dear friends! What is happening now?Oh, my God! You are now saying that something threatens the Black Sea fleet by 2017. He's not in any danger. Absolutely nothing. Therefore, distinguished national MPs! We have the Law on International Contracts, which obliges the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which obliges the Ukrainian State in the event that the International Affairs Committee declares an agreement unconstitutional or having doubts about the Constitution, this treaty is referred to the Constitutional Court for the purpose of determining constitutionality. I wish we had the same standards in this country. I want people to know the laws and to obey the laws and to stop living by the concept of living by the Constitution and by the law! Come on! We have two committees that have declared this law unconstitutional. The third committee, well, we happen to share national security in half. I ask you to remove the clown from the presidency. There is no such country with sickles and hammers, thank God! Get the clown out of there! In order not to be shown, they were not intimidated by Ukrainians in all the channels of Europe by these cavemen. Dear friends! I emphasize that, in this way, in an unconstitutional way, today they are trying to rape not the Supreme Council, not the Council system, but the whole Ukrainian people, their territory, every Ukrainian, whatever language they speak. And I urge you to stop! Stop, know the limit. Your territory, our territory, remember article 17 of the Constitution, which states that the protection of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, economic and information security, are the most important functions of the State, the affairs of the entire Ukrainian people. Dear friends! It is our duty to protect the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian Constitution. That's why I know clearly that no tear gas that is currently being used is any abuse of the State Flag, and now the representatives of the Party of Regions have abused the flag of the State, torn, dropped, shot and so on. It is the right to place a flag there that the electorate has given, not part of the "carcases", but in the Supreme Council, a coalition is formed by election results, dear friends! And so let's do the Constitution, let's do the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u31	Yes, the word is Alla Alexandrovska, a faction of Communists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u32	Dearly-respected are those who are present. ( [[B in m in s a l in]] Respectable Ukrainian citizens who are able to see a broadcast from this Hall and hear what is happening here. The words of the Communists have always been heard by nationalists with resentment, because it is difficult for them to hear the words that expose their betrayal and their lies. Today, they are trying to present the case here in a way that protects the sovereignty of Ukraine. Respectable citizens of Ukraine! What is sovereignty? Sovereignty is the ability of the State to protect itself, to protect its people. What has led to the rule of nationalists in Ukraine over the years? It has led to the destruction of an army, a people cast into poverty, the death of several million citizens, more than tens of millions. This Ukraine has lost 5 to 6 million, and given the real death rate, we have lost more than 10 million Ukrainian citizens, people are dying of grief, poverty, unemployment. The attempt of the coalition in today's Supreme Council of the majority coalition, which includes the communists, to bring order to the State is causing the savage malice of those who oppose Ukraine's independence against Ukraine's sovereignty by covering up this sequence, diverting attention from how they have disrupted Ukraine, how they have destroyed Ukraine. I recall that the entire history of Ukraine shows that national traitors have always been at the source of the defeat of Ukraine, in 17 years Ukraine was entitled to independence, in 17 years the Declaration on the Independence of the Peoples of Russia was adopted, and that is the declaration that the people of Ukraine took advantage of. What did the nationalists do? They betrayed Ukraine, they sold Ukraine first to Austria-Hungary and then to Poland. I recall that a treaty was signed with Poland at that time, according to which part of a large Ukraine with nine million people went to the Polish protectorate. What's going on in this room today? For the first time in the history of Ukraine, a step has been taken over the past 20 years to ensure genuine sovereignty, sovereignty guaranteed by economic development, the well-being of Ukrainian citizens, and a decent standard of living. A real step has been taken to establish a system of collective security in Europe. And we know. [[B in m in s a l in]] It is Paris that has now shed tear gas that it is Paris that does not want Ukraine to be independent. Guys! It is Paris that does not want Ukraine to be an independent State. It is Paris, the nationalists, the bullies in charge of Timoshenko who do not want the historic agreement signed in my home Harkov to be ratified today, that is, nationalists do not want the budget of Ukraine to be recognized, which will enable people to receive a much higher salary, pensioners to receive a decent pension, precisely the budget that will enable many social problems to be solved in Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Communists say it won't work! We protect the sovereignty of Ukraine, we protect the people of Ukraine, we will do everything we can to ensure that nationalism does not go away in Ukraine. We will not allow mockery of the Constitution, of freedom, of the laws of Ukraine. Victory will follow us, nationalism will be expelled from Ukraine. There is no place in Ukraine for butovts, our Ukrainians, Yushchenko and Timoshenko to provokers who destroy Ukraine's independence and work against the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u33	Who will act from the BIT factions? None. Now on the proposals made in the speeches of the national MPs, especially on the grounds that we did not have the right to swear by the Ukrainian National Deputies. I'm answering. The rules do not require the presence of 226 people to swear. This is a solemn act of the Supreme Council, which took place in an extremely solemn atmosphere. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Circumstances of the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine is under review.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u34	Please record First Deputy Prime Minister Klavov Andrija Petrovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Andrew Petrovich, please. Dear National Deputies! If you don't have to do this, please pay attention! – if you don't have to discuss this issue, I'll put it to the vote. Stop fighting and let us discuss this matter properly. All of it. Please, Andrew Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u35	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, President Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic of Ukraine introduced a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the residence of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. The president defined the bill as urgent for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please consider this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u36	Please, from the Committee of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovich. Please, Oleg Grigorovich, is there a Belarus?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u37	I'll read it, then the decision, if you don't want to report it. Is it? Oleg Grigorovich, please. Let go of the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u38	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft law by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Signed on April 21st in Kharkiv, the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Staying of the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine foresees an automatic extension of the lease of a military base in Sevastopol without any time limit that contradicts article 17 and the Transitional Position of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, the Treaty practically refers to the permanent stay of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine. The main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion of 26 April, underlines the impossibility of adopting the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement without its prior consideration before the Constitutional Court to comply with the requirements of the Constitution. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration considered the bill and unanimously recommended rejecting it. The National Security and Defence Committee has also considered the bill and has not taken a decision, since the opinion of the National Deputies, members of the Committee, on the ratification of the agreement is divided into seven. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, having considered the bill, by a majority vote: 8 “yes”, 1 “against”, 1 “resisted”, approved to recommend to the Supreme Council that it reject it as an anti-constitutional, anti-State character and jeopardize Ukraine's national interests, undermine its sovereignty and territorial integrity and lead to the increase of Ukraine's public debt. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council address the Constitutional Court without delay the issue of violations of the imperative requirements of article 17 of the Constitution: the prohibition of the placement of foreign military bases in Ukraine and the restriction of the one-time rule of article 14 of the “Transitional Regulations” of the Constitution of Ukraine by an extreme term of 28 May 2017 and the subordination of the rules of this article of the “Transitional Regulations” of article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine as a law of direct action. The committee draws attention to the possible artificial increase in Ukraine’s financial liabilities to the Russian Federation if the agreement is ratified. The agreement signed in Kharkiv contradicts the basic agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the status and conditions of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in the territory of Ukraine, which is active and currently not denuncified, but prolonged, creating a precedent for a legal constitutional conflict. The agreement also conflicted with the laws of Ukraine regarding Ukraine’s international agreements. Please support the recommendation of the Main Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, reports have been made. In the absence of such a possibility to discuss the bill peacefully, there is the position of the committee, and there is the President’s proposal. The first is the President’s proposal to vote. Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a motion to approve the Law. draft Ukrainian Act “On the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Staying of the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine”, 0165. Please vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:37:51]] For 236 [[B in m in s a l in]] [[Applause]] Decision taken. May I have your attention, please? “For” – 236, decision taken. The draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2010 is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Finance Minister Jaroshenko Fedir Aleksiyovich. Please, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u40	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I am presenting today the Government's draft of the 2010 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, which will be implemented under extremely difficult conditions. Real GDP as a result of 2009 returned to a five-year-old, by 2005, industrial output dropped to 2003 levels, while world consumer prices rose by 12.3 in total, and at individual rates, for example, medical goods and equipment, to over 36 percent. At the same time, real wages fell by 9.2 percent, which was no longer, almost, for 10 years. The financial pit created in 2009 is 94.4 billion dollars. The failure to implement the 2009 government budget revenue plan, the systemless loans used to patch holes, manual expenditure management, these are all starting conditions for the adoption and implementation of the Ukraine State Budget 2010 Act. In view of this, the government has set itself the task of developing, not a survival budget, but a development budget. To this end, the government has abandoned the traditional approach when the new budget is planned in an outdated way from the achieved level last year. Instead, we set out a mission that focused on the main financial document of the State and the system of values that will be created and developed by the State Budget for Ukraine for 2010. The budget mission is to ensure Ukraine's entry into the 20 largest economically developed countries in the world for 10 years. The basic values are: social protection of citizens, sustained economic growth, systematic social renewal, support for basic economic sectors, successful implementation of infrastructure projects, stability of the financial and tax systems. It is the creation and development of such values, the creation of value added in each of them, and is the task of the state budget this year, which is proposed to you. In order to achieve this result, we have laid the foundation for an anti-crisis strategy that envisions the formation of a foundation, the restoration of the constant development of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen. All above-allowed. Allows me to say that the proposed draft Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 will be an effective tool for restoring the economy and protecting citizens, will ensure the launch of the President of Ukraine's programme and the government and the implementation of your political programmes of political parties, national deputies, because each of them has promised its electorate to provide them with a decent life in a European country. As long as we're forced to live with the 2009 budget and that doesn't allow us to move on. Ukraine's State Budget 2010 law will be the foundation that will allow us to take a step forward on the path of reform, on the way to fulfilling our commitments to the people of Ukraine, on the way to transform Ukraine into a state that will be respected in a world that will be proud of its citizens. I ask you to support this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u41	Thank you. The committee head is Mikola Ivanovich. Please, the committee's decision. I ask that you listen carefully to the committee’s comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, honored ones! The draft law in part of the inter-budget relations is drafted in the current budget code. The Act of October 20, 2009 on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage has been taken into account. Social security is thus greatly enhanced. In line with the requirements of recent legislation, the bill also provides, firstly, a new type of payment – a collection for socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in the area of observation in the special State Budget fund of over 100 million dollars aimed at implementing appropriate measures in the form of subsidies to local budgets. Secondly, the special fund of the State budget for VAT paid by processors for their milk and milk products, meat and meat products and other animal and bird processing products totalling 1 billion 350 million dollars for one cow. In accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, the number 9 separate appendix defines the distribution of expenses to the courts of all legal levels. Taking into account the dangerous situation surrounding the significant increase in outstanding VAT amounts in the bill, the government has proposed a mechanism to pay off the tax’s budgetary debt by issuing it with internal government loans with a maturity of five years. In the drafting of the bill, more realistic predictive macro-indicators have been set up, taking into account them, the actual execution of the last year, if the indicator of gross domestic income of enterprises as well as consumer price indices and producer prices. At the same time, an improved average monthly wage rate, a real increase of up to 5 percent as a result of increased social security in the bill. As a result, the state budget project indicators are more balanced and balanced. The deficit is proposed, estimated at 57.7 billion dollars, which is 5.3 percent of gross domestic product. At the same time, the study of the draft State Budget Act for 2010 and the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration shows that unfortunately the bill contains separate provisions that are not consistent with valid legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u43	Mikola Ivanovich, what suggestions do you have that we take into account for the transcript? Members, please do not relax, prepare for the vote. All accounted for?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u44	This morning, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill No. 6000 as a basis and as a whole as a law taking into account the proposals made in the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the adoption of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2010 which is given to you. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] With regard to the “Final Regulations”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u45	Please don't control everyone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u46	After the words “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine” add to the words “under agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters” and paragraph 14: “The use of the funds of local environmental funds shall be effected in agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”. All the proposals that were on the committee today, we considered and decided to support the draft regulation -- everything. They are also proposed as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u47	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? I will put to the vote a proposal – a proposal that takes into account the recommendations and comments of the Budget Committee on adoption as a basis and as a whole of the Ukraine State Budget for 2010. [[Number 6000]] On the basis and generally as a law that takes into account the observations and recommendations of the Committee on Budgets. Please vote. [[10:48:08]] For 245 [[Applause]] State budget accepted. [[Applause]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, dear colleagues, we still have work to do. I'm asking you, then-then-then, let's get to work. Dear National Deputies! We need to get the day-to-day question in order, please! - about the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Where are these questions? Where are these government projects? Here we go. And the government that we were supposed to include in the agenda. Give me the government bill we were supposed to include in the agenda. As long as these documents are given, we at the Conciliation Council at the request of the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" agreed to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". [[on Parliamentary Opposition]] Is the reporter - national deputy of Ukraine, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich? None. And the reporter is the National Deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u48	Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich. Please report immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, the need to amend the current Act “On the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” is stipulated by Article 6 of the Procedural Decision, which is 150 votes of the national deputies to the Supreme Council, may invite or call any official other than the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u50	I'm asking you, Your Honor, let's stop this. We already have other questions to vote on. Then there will be worship.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u51	Considering that the universally elected President of Ukraine is the head of state and is not the accountable Supreme Council of Ukraine, I find that it is not a valid norm that allows at least every plenary meeting to call the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council. And no matter who the President is, his election is the will of the people, and that's what we have to count on. And while the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were a normative act, there was one situation, and when the Rules became law, Article 6 could be used to destabilize the situation in the country. That is why I propose to make appropriate changes to article 6 of the Rules in force. With regard to article 59 of the current Law on the Rules, I would like to say the following. According to article 13 of the Act “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine”, the national MP, who is excluded from the faction’s composition, is non-fractional. And given that national MPs are elected nationally and cannot be dependent on the will of the faction manager, this statement is entirely in line with the conclusions of the Venice Commission. According to that article 13 of the Law on the Status of Deputies, all MPs, including nonfractional ones, can be joined into parliamentary groups. For various reasons, a number of national deputies have become nonfractional. But according to the rules in force of the Supreme Council, their powers are severely restricted. In order to enable non-fractional deputies to fully exercise their parliamentary powers, it is proposed to make appropriate changes to article 59 of the Rules Act, by which non-fractional deputies will have the right to join the parliamentary group, to participate in meetings of the Conciliation Board with the right to vote, to make proposals on the number and personal composition of temporary investigators and special commissions, and to make statements by a representative of the group on each issue of the agenda. According to a valid version of the Rules, part of the third article 68 in the Supreme Council of Ukraine can have only one parliamentary opposition or faction, which is a parliamentary opposition. This rule of law severely restricts the right to opposing activities of other MP factions that did not form part of the coalition. Thus, to date, the existing rules of the Rules allow for opposition and opposition government to be created, as well as the guaranteed right to speak from the rostrum and to represent only one faction or union, consisting of more than half the number of deputies who did not join the coalition. Other MP factions that decide on their opposition will either be forced to join the MP factions, whose number is the majority of the deputies, or to work on general principles and will not be able to fully carry out their opposition activities in Parliament and to exercise control over the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In line with the changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u52	Vasil Alexiyovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u53	Article 69 suggests making adjustments to article 70 as well as to article 81. And to conclude, I would like to say that honourable deputies, with regard to the amendment to article 79 of the Rules of Procedure for the Election and Refoulement of the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the parliamentary practice shows that there is no need to elect the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council by secret ballot, and even more so by obtaining two-thirds of the ballot papers to vote by secret ballot. And to the end. What I'm saying is that when the bill was being drafted, I was replacing it, taking into account the relevant comments of the Scientific and Expert Office, and taking into account the proposals made by the members of the regulatory committee that approved the bill a few days ago. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u54	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, microphone, please, or from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, the regulatory committee, at its meeting, considered the bill and decided to support and recommend a positive decision to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, we have two projects. Draft amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. Authors: National Deputies Martinenko Mikola and Matvienko Anatoly This is 6193 and 6193-1. As reported by Vasil Kiselov. I'll put it to the vote in order of registration. Please be careful. The draft law is voted first. [[authors Martinenko and Matvienko]] I'm putting it to the vote on the basis and as a whole. I'd like to make a statement. 6193 is the basis and generally the law. [[10:56:07]] For-0 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" which have been introduced in exchange for the former, for adoption as a basis and as a whole as a law. [[6193-1]] [[author: People's Deputy Kiselov]] Please vote. [[10:56:39]] For 237 Decision taken. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we need to get into the agenda so that we can look at the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts for inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[10:57:17]] For 240 Decision taken. Yes, dear fellows! Efraem's Alexander Sergiyovich, please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Considering the situation in the hall, the Supreme Council’s decree to amend the calendar plan is proposed. Change the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 19 January 2010, on Parliament's work in April 2010, with the provision of April 28-30 for the work of the national deputies with the electorate. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u58	Give me this document, Alexander Sergiyovich. Alexander Sergiyovich, give me this document. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of this project. Order to amend the calendar of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Please vote. About making changes. It's about getting into the agenda of the day. [[10:58:54]] For 241 True, I was told that this question does not need to be included in the agenda. That's why we just did the signal vote. I am voting on the adoption of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a decision to amend the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. What other suggestions are there for this? [[10:59:28]] For 242 Decision taken. On the basis of statements made by the national deputies who have just taken an oath, I hereby announce from the faction of the Party of the Regions their membership in the faction of the Party of the Regions. The relevant documents have been submitted. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in turn, we have Bills 6122 -- this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on lending and stimulating foreign investment]] You and I have decided that he will be prepared under a reduced procedure and brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Who will report? Yuri Poluniev, please. Let's do some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, honourable Head, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is suggested in the second reading of Bill 6122, the essence of which is to remove restrictions on foreign investment, as well as incentives that will improve the attractiveness of Ukrainian businesses to engage in loans. The bill was adopted in the first reading. It's very short. Many comments were made during the second reading process, but they were partly taken into account during the consideration of the working group, but most of them were rejected. Therefore, the bill remains in the original form in which you approved the first time you read it. Please support this important bill, which awaits Ukrainian businesses, banks, investors, second reading and the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u60	Let's go to the repairs, please. Teryochin insists? No, it's not. Carmazine? No, it's not. Teryohin? No, it's not. The 4th Amendment of Carmagazine? No, it's not. The 5th Amendment of Terhochin? No, it's not. The 6th Amendment of Terhochin? No, it's not. The 7th Amendment of Carmagazine? No, it's not. Terhochin’s 8th Amendment? No, it's not. The 9th Amendment of Carmazine? No, it's not. The 10th Amendment of Carmazine? I can't see. The 11th Amendment of Carmagazine? No, it's not. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Loaning and Stimulating Foreign Investments. [[Registration number 6122]] Please vote. [[11:02:41]] For 240 Decision taken. The law is passed. Now registration number 6222. As a basis, we accepted it at first reading 13.04. 2010 It was the commission of the committee to prepare him for his second reading for this plenary week, Tuesday. Since the commission has not been executed, I am voting on the adoption of the draft law as a law. [[Registration number 6222]] Please vote. [[11:03:25]] For 241 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Council, it was a matter of putting in order the daily Bill 6317, which deals with the agro-industrial complex, in order for the committee to prepare it for consideration. [[6317]] I emphasize that if we include ourselves in the agenda, we have no right to consider this session. That's why I'm voting on the inclusion of Bill 6317 in the agenda. [[11:04:15]] For 242 Include questions in the agenda. Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! Simonenko, the Communist faction. I'd like to ask you. In view of the fact that we have now made decisions on changes to the calendar plan, and just before the day of the celebration, the great holiday – the Great Victory Day – we will not work with you, but I think we will make a gift for our veterans, for the citizens of Ukraine as a whole, a gift if we make a decision on the draft Law 4355: “The perpetuation of victory in the Great Homeland War 1941-1945”. This project has already been discussed, including on the Conciliation Council. It's on. I'm asking you to vote on it. 4355: about the use of the Victory Flag during the 65th anniversary celebration, which is still connected to Victory Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-27-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you, I didn't say it was an accident. We've been looking at this bill, it's been rejected, a new bill has been drafted. And we have to put it in the agenda. And if we put it into the agenda, we don't have the right to look at it at this morning's plenary. And I would ask you not to push me into breaking the Rules. We have no right. That's why. I want to say again: we have no right under the law. Only by including it can we consider it at the next meeting. It's the law. That you're pushing me to break the law?Oh, my God! Let's turn it on! Give me a draft of this document. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the inclusion of registration number 4355 in the agenda of the bill. [[11:06:25]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in view of our creative situation, there is this suggestion: Let us finish our work now. Because we need to think about what happened, and given what we've adopted the government budget, we need the people's deputies to go out in the area and participate in the sessions of the district councils in the consideration of this issue. So I'm going to put a motion on the vote so that we don't have an evening session. I ask you to vote for this proposal. [[11:07:22]] For 240 Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We, according to our decision, have 28, 30 numbers working on committees, directly in the districts. And according to the calendar plan that we have, we're going to have continued plenary work. All of it.
