ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:33]] They registered cards in the 382 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session of October 6, 2010. Thirty-one questions of the agenda have been considered, three decrees have been adopted, three bills adopted on the basis of 19 bills and eight draft decrees have been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues, Anatoly Leonidovich and Ukolova Viktor Alexanderovich. Please welcome them and wish them good health and productive work! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I am announcing the draft law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Registration number 7208. The rapporteur is Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich. The focal point is the head of the temporary special commission Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed in a new edition of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, drawn up in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which imposes the obligation to bring the laws and regulations of all in the country to the authorities of the State. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has taken the first step and proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a decision in accordance with the current Constitution of Ukraine and to introduce a law governed by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine as of 28 June 1996. The changes that are foreseen come from the text of the Basic Law, they relate to the way in which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is formed, the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the appointment of the Ministers of Ukraine, their dismissal, their resignation, the manner in which decisions are taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the interaction of the Cabinet of Ministers with other authorities of the State, including Parliament, with the President, with the Court of Auditors with other bodies operating in Ukraine. These changes are prepared, and they relate to how acts are approved, how they can change, and how they can be repealed. This applies to the procedure for the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as to duties that rely on members of the government. In addition, it is proposed to adopt amendments to other laws of Ukraine, which provide for the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which today are to be transferred to the power of the Head of State under the Basic Law. These proposals were considered today by a special committee created by Parliament. During the discussion, proposals were made on some editorial rights to the proposed law and on how to separate the Cabinet of Ministers Act and the changes made to 32 other Ukrainian laws. After consideration in this format, there will be a proposal for us to determine today as a whole about the proposed draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Please sign up for the question to the Minister of Justice, Alexander Lavrinovich. Please. It's a recording. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Bondarenko, “BUT” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u4	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Mr. Alexander! Recently on “Ukrainian Truth”, I read a rather serious analysis of our colleague Anatolia Griesenka regarding this bill. The bill itself is obviously to be approved, but the warnings that are expressed there are really disturbing. Well, in particular, before President Kuchma, at least there was some explanation for the dismissal of an official in the Attorney General's Office in the Ukrainian Security Service. There's a number of reasons and stuff. How do you feel about fully, practically without explaining to the legislative body, giving the President the right to carry out a whole range of services. And a lot of other questions that you're obviously familiar with. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u5	I'm sure I'm familiar with all the questions that regulate these projects that are being proposed for your consideration. With regard to the grounds for the discharge of the Attorney General, what has also been added to other circumstances other than those listed in the law in force today is a matter that relates to certain situations that arise in the proceedings of the Prosecutor's Office. And today, when I gave an example of a decision that was passed on to the Attorney-General right before President Leonid Danilovich Kuchmi, who you mentioned when, on the basis of the decision of the Anti-Corruption Committee, a decision was taken to dismiss the Attorney-General of Ukraine, this is, well, a vivid testimony that situations and circumstances may arise that are not contained in the prosecutor's law today. And I think that these circumstances are also serious reasons for making that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u6	Alexander Bodnar is delegating the right to question Anatoly Matviyenko. Microphone, please. The faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u7	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” block. Alexander Volodymyrovich, three questions, if possible, briefly answer. The Venice Commission has been commissioned by the Parliamentary Assembly and the decision it has made is unknown, but if this decision is decisive in terms of the legal mechanism for the return to the Constitution of 1996, do you see and what the effect of the conduct of the Ministry of Justice, the President you represent, and the Cabinet of Ministers? Second question. I never understood these two laws, which today are cunningly written in the so-called Transitional and Final Positions, are divided, whether you propose to consider them simultaneously, since such a know-how has not yet been known by the world and parliament, including. And the second. You said today that you're proposing to accept it as a whole. [[third, more faithful]] I just got this bill yesterday. I don't understand how my procedure works.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u8	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u9	My corrections and suggestions may be taken into account. And why do you take away this right from me by using the Constitution and the relevant Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u10	It's about the first question. I can say that the Ministry of Justice is implementing and will be implementing the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, the decision of the court as it stands. We can't work according to projects and wishes. Only on the basis of valid standards. As for the second question. With regard to two draft laws, I can tell you that a draft law has been introduced by the law's law-making body, today, when considered by a special commission created by Parliament, a proposal has been made to divide. We have no objection to that. As for the way decisions are made. These powers are exclusive to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the national deputies of Ukraine. And you have to make decisions, not the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u11	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u12	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, according to 8 articles, the Prime Minister is appointed President of Ukraine with the consent of most of the Supreme Council's constitutional composition. And members of the Cabinet of Ministers are appointed President for the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Does this not mean that the President is practically in charge of executive power in Ukraine and is fully responsible for economic reforms, price increases, housing tariffs and so on? In fact, the President is now fully responsible for all the things that are happening both in the economy and in the social and humanitarian development of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u13	The answer is no, it doesn't. And more broadly, I'll tell you that, as you correctly quoted, they don't authorize the President of Ukraine to run the executive branch. And if all of a sudden, in any election, a representative of one political power elected by the President and the diametrically opposite political power will have a majority in this room, then I think you can easily understand the agreement on which the prime minister may be given in such a room. And it is clear that this prime minister will propose appropriate nominations to the President. So to say that this model makes the president a full executive, you can only theoretically match the parliamentary majority in their approaches to the development of the country with the approaches that are at the head of state. But this is not a constitutional model of leadership by the head of the executive state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u14	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u15	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of "Bloka Timoshenko", Party of "Fatherland". I'd like to give the floor to the deputy, Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u16	Jaroslav Jojik, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u17	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, recently the world's public, watched as the mayor of Moscow was released by President Medvedev's decree for losing the confidence of the President of Russia. As we know, and this is seen by an unarmed eye, Ukraine is moving in the process of establishing an authoritarian regime in our country. After all, every day we are practically implementing what is in modern - day Russian reality. Don't you think, since you've offered to adopt the Cabinet of Ministers Act as a whole today, it's also the right to release any official, a member of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u18	Complete your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u19	Don't you think, because you're suggesting today as a whole that there's such an extremely important law that we should consider a basis for the release of any member of the Cabinet of Ministers, of the loss of confidence of the President of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u20	As for the approach to the adoption of the law, you will be determined in this room. The point is that the Cabinet of Ministers specifically did not develop innovation into a valid law. A decision was taken by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And here the discussion field narrows down considerably. Because no one in this country, including a high - ranking parliament, has the right to decide whether to approve or revoke a court decision. So the approach you're offered has absolute logic. As far as trust is concerned. One who does not have the trust of a head of state who appoints government members cannot, of course, be appointed. And someone who doesn't have confidence in work can't work. I think these are obvious things. And in any country, only those who use the trust of those who assign them can work in the authorities of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u21	Anatoly Griesenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I also address you as Minister. Just before the minister of the rostrum did two dangerous things for which he would be retired in a European country. First. He lied to Parliament and the whole country. The other one. He urged Parliament to act contrary to the law. That's what lies are all about. Mr. Lavrinović said that the bill conformed to the Constitutional Court's decision. That's not true. This bill includes dozens of other provisions that in no way stem from the decision of the Constitutional Court. And the content of these provisions is the concentration of power in the hands of the President himself, the deprivation of parliamentary control over the activities of the forces, the budgetary process, much more. That's the first one. Deception. The other one. The Minister of Justice is the person who is directly responsible for the rule of law, and I am calling for the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of voting today on the law as a whole, under no circumstances. I have dozens of amendments myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u23	Please finish your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u24	I personally, I say, Vladimir Mikhailovich, under the transcript, I have dozens of amendments to this bill, I have the constitutional legal right to introduce them. I ask you to give me the opportunity to exercise my legal right. And the Minister of Justice needs to know that calls for a violation of the law is the basis for resignation in a normal European country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u26	I don't think there's any answer here because every MP has a right to his grades, and he makes them. And I don't think it's possible in this case to enter into a discussion. And once again, I say that the right to make decisions belongs to the People's Deputies and the Supreme Council as an authority of state. How is this done? This is determined by the relevant laws of Ukraine, the Supreme Council’s Rules. You're making a decision. The Cabinet of Ministers is making their proposals, please consider them in the way you consider necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u27	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Since the question was also addressed to me, I would like to ask the distinguished National Deputies to listen attentively to the statement by the head of the temporary special commission Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, and he will say that where the rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been violated, everything is placed in place in the commission. At the same time, I think we have an understanding that today the Supreme Council of Ukraine is no longer able to influence the formation of government, but the control functions of committees should increase and public ratings should be high. Please, calm down. Before me, there was a question, and I answer it. Calm down. I want to say again: calm down. Adam Ivanovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, your colleagues, you know that yesterday, according to the Supreme Council's decision, a temporary special commission was created, whose main task is to bring Ukraine's legislative acts to the present-day functioning of the Ukrainian Constitution. Today, at a meeting of a temporary special commission, which took place practically in full stock in the absence of one of the ten members of the TSC. We've made the right decisions on the bill that they're considering today. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the essential principle of our decision. First. And this decision was made by most members of the commission all in attendance, except for one who held onto it, this is colleague Knjazevich. We have decided today to adopt two laws: the Law on the New Editorial, and more specifically the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers and the Second Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on bringing them into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, the temporary special committee met in unanimity, and all members of the commission came to the point of making the following amendments to these laws. It's about the Cabinet of Ministers Act. Article 8 of Part Six proposes that the words “or an authorized person” be taken away. This means that the President of Ukraine participates in the plenary session of the Supreme Council when it comes to granting approval for the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The words “authorized person ” are taken away. It also takes up the seventh part that the prime minister's candidate is given the opportunity to answer the questions of members of the MPs, because not only is there an opportunity to answer, but also to speak, to present his vision of the problem, and so on and so forth. Part 10 is also taken away, “a person appointed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine shall be authorised under this office after taking office in the order established by Article 10 of this Act”. In view of the fact that we're even proposing article 10, where it's about that the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister and the ministers are taking an oath before the President, take it away, because she doesn't have the right to life, so to speak. In article 30, where it comes to the fact that those present at the Cabinet of Ministers are present at the meeting of the Supreme Council, members of the Cabinet of Ministers have the right to a replica, we added the word, "not only to a replica, but also to a speech" - if the decision is made by the Supreme Council or if those present are required to do so accordingly. [[Part 4]] Unfortunately, for technical reasons, the numbering has failed. After the 26th article comes the 28th article, which is corresponding to the 27th article, and after the 26th, the numbering changes. And in the Final, Transitional and End positions in the first part after the words, "This law takes effect from the day of its publication," I've already said that we're dividing these two bills. Now with regard to the second bill: for the purpose of amending Ukraine's laws to bring them into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, there are such fundamental amendments. As far as the Ukrainian Security Service Act is concerned. In article 31, “The accountability of the Ukrainian Security Service” is to be added: “Constant monitoring of the Ukrainian Security Service is carried out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” In the Antimonopoly Committee Act (Article 10), the words: “which is made on the basis of proposals made by the head of the Antimonopoly Committee”, are taken away. That is, the proposals for the first deputies, the deputy heads of the Antimonopoly Committee of State Commissioners, are assigned to the post for submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u29	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u30	and dismisses the President of Ukraine. In the Law on State Service, part two of article 25, where it refers to a list of posts that refer to the first category, adds that this category is referred to by the Deputy Chiefs of the Supreme Council Apparatus and the Deputy Heads of the President’s Administration. In the Law on State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information, in article 25, add paragraph three. Now I'm going to read what the point is. Add that the Head of the State Office for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine informs the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the implementation of special communications and protection of Ukrainian citizens, the observance of legislation, human rights and freedoms, and other issues. And there's quite a point to the changes in the budget code. Our commission has come to a unanimous conclusion that the Budget Code needs only to be amended with regard to the powers of the Court of Auditors, because you know that the Court of Auditors has the right to control the budget coming to date under the 2004 Constitution, according to the current Constitution, they do not have such rights. That is, there are only proposals in the Budget Code relating to the budget of the Court of Auditors. All that about the exercise of control, redistribution and so on, and so on, and so on, those proposals where it is proposed to take the Committee of the Supreme Council out of budgetary matters, the unanimous decision of our commission is that these rules should remain, but instead of the words “the Committee on Budget Issues”, the words “the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, i.e. all powers regarding the formation of the State Budget, the redistribution and the follow-up with the budgetary committee, are left behind by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, by subsuming, I'm stressing once again: our decision is to adopt two laws. The second decision we made, I made about these amendments to the bills you have, that no narrowing of the rights and control functions of the Supreme Council, which were proposed in this bill, was allowed. We're not just restoring, but we're kind of strengthening these control functions. With this in mind, once again, of the nine members present of the temporary special commission, eight voted in favour of the decision to enact these two laws today as laws with the amendments proposed by the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u31	Please sign up for a question to a coconspirator. I'd like the names of the people's deputies on the board. Pilipenko, non-factional. Next is Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u32	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Today, we're on a commission, we've really made this decision and the rush that's going on with this law today, and we're only arguing that, as of today, the 96th Constitution is in force, and we need to break those laws that don't fit the Constitution today, and they're not real in this part. Therefore, we must not leave the public authorities without the documents governing their activities, so today we have decided with you on the committee to move quickly after the adoption of this law. I propose to the Supreme Council today to vote on this law as a whole, taking into account those proposals that have been considered by the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I stress once again, especially to the just observation that colleague Griesenko has made that all those efforts to narrow down the powers of the Supreme Council that were on the project are proposed by the commission to clean up. That is, the Supreme Council's control function remains behind both the Ukrainian Security Service and the State Department, and in the formation and implementation of the budgetary process, and so on and so forth. None of the functions of the Supreme Council are diminishing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u34	Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u35	Andrew Pavlovsky, “Fatherland. ” Opposition requires the adoption of such a law only in the first reading. And please give the floor to Deputy Sass, he will explain why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u36	Please, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, how may your commission propose to consider some two bills if there is one bill in the agenda. Tell me again, Adam Ivanovich, as a former member of the regulatory committee, where it is written, the right of the commission to the rights of the Main Committee to make any changes to the bill you are proposing. Tell me, where is the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office, where is the conclusion of the Committee on Constitutional Law of Legal Policy? Where's the conclusion? Where's the financial and economic justification? Adam Ivanovich, can you give me a hint, please, how can you accept this when there is a point to the bill, in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u38	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. The answer to your question is: Read the Supreme Council Rules, that is one thing. The other one. There were a number of speeches about the Codex Budgets. Dear colleagues may not have heard, I repeat, for Klukkowski, for Cyril and so on. I repeat, everything relating to the budgetary process, instead of the words “the Committee on Budget Issues”, we propose to write “the Supreme Council”, “the Supreme Council”, “the Supreme Council”. Because there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that there are no control functions on the committee, and there is a control function on the Supreme Council. And that's why where the laws are that, let's say, the Defence Committee, the Budget Committee, we've left the words "the Supreme Council of Ukraine" everywhere. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine will determine the form of control over these activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u39	National MP Semerak, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u40	Thank you. Semerak, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Adam Ivanovich, it is clear that the Cabinet of Ministers prepared this bill on Saturday and Sunday, and so the 27th article was missing. Thank you for finding all this stuff. But the question is about the unconstitutionality of the draft law that you're reporting today. Please tell me if you consider a violation of the Constitution of the law that is passed on to this law of the President to appoint deputy ministers, deputy heads of the central executive branch. Is it not a violation of the Constitution of the concept that is prescribed in this law as the commission of the President, who writes him that it is what it has the legal power? Third. Whether there is a substitute in this law or in the draft law the concept of countersignature and whether it violates the Constitution and the essence of such an phenomenon at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u41	Thank you for the fair question, but I am fully responsible for stating that, for the purpose of countersignition, it is more clearly stated in the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers with reference to the valid Constitution, that the Prime Minister, or Minister, to whom the question proposed by the Constitution, is referred, clearly, in the two articles of the Cabinet of Ministers Act. With regard to the appointment of deputy heads of central executives, this is the President's constitutional rule. The President forms the organs of the central executive, he has the right to form, eliminate the active ones and so on, and so on, and to appoint both the leaders and the representatives of these central executive bodies. With regard to the President's orders, this is also the norm of the Constitution. In fact, under the 2004 Constitution, we narrowed down in some sense the issue of issuing presidential decrees. But the Cabinet of Ministers is in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u42	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u43	It's forming. Under the control of the President of Ukraine and he is guided by his acts. And the acts of the President of Ukraine, as well as the acts of the Supreme Council, are different acts, including decrees and orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u44	Jaroslav Jojik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u45	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, yesterday there was a meeting of the President of Ukraine with the leaders of the majority, in which he demanded most of his cooperation with the opposition. At the same time, the leader of the faction of Alexander Efraemov's Party of Regions claims that there is no opposition in today's Supreme Council. Clearly, after the legal chaos in our country, warned by Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, it is clear that your desire to adopt the Cabinet of Ministers Act immediately. But do you not think that the rights of opposition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine must be immediately and arranged so that Alexander Efraemov does not allow himself in the future to go against the will of the President of Ukraine and claim that there is no opposition on the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u46	Thank you. The fact is that what we are considering today does not apply to the internal regulatory work of our body. You and I will be making appropriate changes to our Supreme Council Rules Act in the near future, and there we will address the problems you are talking about. And as for the statement of his colleague Ephraim, he said something in a different context. That the rights that have been provided for until recently, the Constitution no longer has any coalition or opposition that has been enshrined in the Constitution. And the fact that there are forces that, as it were, want to express their position, I would point out once again that not only the opposition or the majority, not only the MP faction or the MP groups, but each of the 450 national MPs has the right to speak up and stand up for their position, but this applies to regulation by another law, the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u47	Yes, thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Time's up. Let's move on to the question. Please sign up for the factions. It's a faction performance. Did you sign up? Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you to sign up for the National Deputies. There is a record of the national deputies for the performance. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Dear colleagues! So a faction statement is 15 minutes, I understand, 15 minutes and then 30 minutes of the national MPs. No objections? Yes. From the faction of the Party of the Regions will be the national deputy Demčishen. Prepare from the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” by Jaroslav Jojik. Find out who will act.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This law will establish an appropriate, which corresponds to the Constitution of Ukraine, the legal regulation of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by defining its core tasks, principles and principles of organization of activities, composition, order of formation and termination of powers, competences, powers in relations with other government bodies, local self-government bodies, citizens' associations, social and other government security, and by amending other legislative acts directly relating to the subject matter of the bill. The adoption of the project will ensure that the Cabinet of Ministers fully complies with the Constitution of Ukraine since 28 June 1996, as amended by the Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. [[of December 8, 2004]] [[No.2222-4]] It is proposed that the bill be adopted in the first reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u49	The faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" will be by Ruslan Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u50	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Well, in fact, I am grateful to Adam Ivanovich for saying that the only person who opposed the decision of the temporary special commission was me. And I've had enough, I think, serious arguments. And what I'm going to say is, despite the fact that I was the only one against, in fact, making a decision, the commission made a number of comments. I think the members of the commission will confirm the left side of which will be taken into account, because that's exactly what I've been making. And the main one was that we actually now have a valid Cabinet of Ministers Act. Because this law doesn't go empty, we don't have a vacuum of legislation in this part. That's why the law had to be made to amend the Kabmen Act, because it refers to just a small number of articles, not the whole body of the law. And the other 99 percent is almost, let's say, 90, it's a replication of the law's authentic standards. But in this part, they disagreed with me. Rather, they agreed to divide these two laws, namely, the body of the law into two laws: the law itself and the Transitional Statutes. Although I insisted, it is recorded in the transcript that we cannot unify everything in the second law. How can we commit the Constitutional Court and the Communion, even if it is purely technological? It's totally unacceptable. Because these laws regulate different social relationships. At the same time, once again, we will have a serious conflict. We are today, in fact, adopting two laws by one registration number, because there is no other application. Yes. As the hardware services will then come out in general, and in general how we'll use these laws, how can we let this happen that we're in the process then somehow we're dividing and these laws are going to go under one number and they're going to start their lives. You can't let that happen. So the only thing that can be done is to consider in the first reading of the Cabinet of Ministers Act today, because what Adam Ivanovich said is not entirely true to what was adopted. Adam Ivanovich, I would like to point out that my amendment has been accepted that continuous control of the activities of the U.S.S.S.S. is being carried out by the Supreme Council, and the head is reporting on implementation. And you said the head was reporting on enforcement of defence legislation. No, first control, then control reporting. And we agreed to that. With regard to errands, the commission was neither in the fourth year in change nor in the sixth year body. That's why this act of the President is unconstitutional. And so the first law can only be considered in the first reading, because there are major amendments, and the second one needs to be called back and reinstated as a new legislative initiative with a new issue. And through this legislative procedure, it has to go through. And even better, if it's a separate 32 laws, because in that way neither the first nor the second can be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u51	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Then Peter Simonenko of the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u52	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! We are now witnesses of shameful acts. So what do we see in front of the rostrum, who are these people? Why does the authorities take care of themselves, block the rostrum? Let her explain. The second question. I'd like to ask our fellow Communists. In their time, they promised to eliminate the office of president in general as a surplus and to speak for the parliamentary republic. Now their representative is leading the process of usurping power by one person, creating an authoritarian regime. Janukovich himself. This was the result of an overriding of its authority by the Constitutional Court. I want to tell you, friends, interesting news. You know that the courts of the Constitutional Court are now under arrest and are now under investigation in Kyrgyzstan. And you know what? For exceeding their authority, because they are similar to Ukraine, as we are now doing, in due course they have abolished the polytreform in Kyrgyzstan. I think there's such a dangerous trend with Kyrgyzstan by analogy and we're looking forward to it. And I also want to point out that this law should be called, not the Cabinet of Ministers Act, but the law on the continuation of the usurpation of power. I would like to point out that we are essentially as a parliament depriving ourselves of the control functions of executive power. And so we're going to be buttoned up in the Supreme Council, so we're going to be buttoned up completely. And we're just going to make decisions from a former CD that we're going to get down here. Note that the Law of Lavrinović suggests that we create a caste of privileged persons who are not subject to labour laws, and that the Law on State Service is not distributed. That's the advantage we'll have, members of the Cabinet of Ministers. And they'll only have a report in front of one person -- the President. I would also like to point out that such an important law should be considered only in the first reading. Because happiness is sought by depriving members of the constitutional right to amend and comment on laws. Moreover, they are in opposition. And we're willing to work and make changes to such an important law. It's a violation, it's a gross breach on a regular basis. And notice that in addition to the changes to the Cabinet of Ministers Act, there are also dozens of laws that have nothing to do with this law. Both the Security Service Act, both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Constitutional Court, and dozens of other important laws to be considered separately. We should not go in the anti-constitutional way of anti-constitutional rebellion and junta. We have to democratically change the Constitution, only through a referendum, by consulting the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u53	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The Company’s faction will vote in favour of the changes that we are forced to make in connection with the Constitutional Court’s decision. But I would also like to address my opponents. You call the Communists when you got on your tail. When we urged all of you to understand that Ukraine should develop democratically, you pushed Ukraine's family to bring to power those who would destroy the principles of democracy. And today, I'm sorry, here, let's say, you're calling us Communists in connection with what you want to hide today, what's going on in the hard struggle of the clans for power. And you're not interested in this power to develop Ukraine, and you've been in power for five years, you're interested in pocketing. So please keep your mouth shut when you talk about it, you're talking about Communists. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the majority today. We are facing the question today, before the dilemma that one thing is to bring the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers into line with the requirements of the Constitutional Court, and on the other hand, we must today ensure that all branches of power are united in order to carry out the tasks that we have set for our electorate. But I would like to point out that, indeed, we can share the authority, but what, the main thing, the Cabinet of Ministers is going to do is that today should be the subject of a conversation before a political decision is made to support the draft law. If there's no political will, will the Cabinet of Ministers today decide on the development planning of our society, regional development planning, sector development planning, development whether it's private capital or government or it's a person-specific initiative. We need to understand today that this law will help us bring these issues into line, based on the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers should not be a committee to protect the interests of the clans, it must be a state body that promotes the development of the state. Every minister today must answer to the Supreme Council, in front of the President, to the people of Ukraine for how many jobs have been created regardless of the form of ownership of the enterprise, which is the level of wages. If today's 2 billion debt on salary, regardless of the form of ownership today, the Cabinet of Ministers should, in addressing the Attorney General's Office, bring criminal responsibility to the one who doesn't pay the salary. What is the price level today, and not to hide or hide from what we cannot interfere with, but today to control harshly how the price is shaped, where the profits are going, and who today practically, using power, is charging their own pockets. These are also questions that have to do with the support of the manufacturer, protecting the internal market. Today, we need to take off the yoke of pressure from the International Monetary Fund on the decisions that are being made. So, dear colleagues, we're going to support this bill, but the problem is much broader and much deeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u55	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u56	If we're doing the same thing, we're going to be state-owned, if, like the predecessor, it's a waste of time saying that he says one thing, and it's completely different for himself, for his own pocket.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the speeches by the national deputies. 15 minutes plus 4 minutes, so 19 minutes to the National MPs. What? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, I'm telling you, we're on our way, we've saved four minutes, so then we've got 30 minutes, so I'm saying we've saved four minutes. I talked to him, so there's no problem. Kamchatny, a national deputy, hands over the right to speak to Kaplanko, a nonfractional colleague. Please come in. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, National Deputy of Ukraine Vladimir Kaplanko, MP “Reforms for the Future”. We are today considering Bill 7208, which defines the basic tasks and principles of the Ukrainian government. I'd like to draw your attention to our official position. We consider it necessary to state that such a law requires attention and that it should be adopted. Of course, it should be accepted as a basis today in the hall, leading to second reading and acceptance as a whole. What are the principles governing this law? Of course, it is about stopping people's employment in the Cabinet of Ministers as Ukraine's senior executive body only by a political sign. It would be desirable for professional groups to come to the Cabinet of Ministers, for government to have people who are capable of systemic reform to appear in Ukraine’s government, to have a clear understanding of the policy of development, the strategic development of Ukraine, and to be very willing to have no different interpretations of the way and how it should be assigned, the mandate to give and the way in which to release members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Of course, this bill adds additional powers to the President of Ukraine regarding the rights laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine in 1996. We support these. We only support this because it is prescribed by the direct entry in the Basic Law of Ukraine in 96. So I would like to emphasise, honourable Members, we urge you to support this bill, to accept it as a basis, to undertake further work and to accept it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u59	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", next will be Anatoly Grizzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u60	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the noble Ukrainian people, what is happening now in the Hall, is extremely far from the Constitution of Ukraine, extremely far away. I would like to note and draw your attention, Sir Vladimir Mikhailovich, to the attention of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that you and I have a serious precedent in the country. I think the Minister of Justice has to understand that if the Law on Amendments to the Constitution was repealed, it doesn't mean that they cancelled the Constitution, it's the first time. And secondly, it doesn't mean that all laws are now to be adopted in violation of that decision and the Constitution, one or the other. What we are encouraged to break this precedent is in itself unprecedented. What has now been reported by the commission, Adam Ivanovich, you do not take offense at me, I respect you very much, but you have cancelled the Committee of Legal Policy or whatever, or even today, our colleague Mishchenko, a literate, powerful man unemployed or his committee. Why did you remove it already, why did article 89 about the preparation of this law by the Committee? Why is this law now divided into two laws, into a law where transitional positions and this law are involved? This is a brutal violation of the procedure established by the Rules Act, in which I say "brutal". Don't do that, because this is the reason for the same Constitutional Court if it has a conscience, not to take it to Syrka to repeal this law. I'd like to think about the changes and talk about constitutionality in general, and I'd like to mention that we have nine co-conspirators, two ministers, two governors, five committee heads. And today you are quietly passing a law, saying that there is a majority! What is the majority, most of which are venerable?Oh, my God! Only in Germany during Hitler’s time did they take an oath of allegiance to the Fuhrer. You are now proposing that the President be faithfully accepted, that the Ukrainian government be sworn before the President, not before Parliament and the Ukrainian people. Fear God, do not do this! Now look ahead. What you're writing is that in the power of the President, he also appoints deputies to the local authorities of the state. You've also gone to the House of Accounts Act. You cancel and do not write that the powers are determined by the Act on the Court of Auditors and the authority of the Supreme Council. Security, the police, they've made changes around here. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u61	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u62	I'm done. Vladimir Mikhailovich, it is clear to you that the law is extremely crude. This shows this discussion. That's why I'm asking you to bring us back.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u63	Thank you. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, as well as Roman Zvaric, are handing over the right to speak to Anatoly Grycenk for 6 minutes. In turn, Anatoly Gritsenko will hand over the right to address Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I've asked for more time so that we can all figure out what's going on right now, including the people watching us, the journalists from the rostrums, and the people watching on TV are listening on the radio. If we read the agenda formally, we are now considering a bill on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. But everyone has already realized that in violation of the law, the Constitution will not vote on this bill. Instead, two others will be put to the vote, which in the end no one has seen, which in the final form has not been examined by the committee, and they will not be discussed accordingly. That is, what will be taken into account is understood by the Head of the Supreme Council and the First Deputy, who knows the letter of the Rules, will be illegal. The other one. A large part of the deputies represented here, I think not only in opposition, have their serious rights to these amendments. Now, at the request of the Minister of Justice, on behalf of the government, they want to suspend these rights. This is another violation of the law. I speak specifically for the transcript to make sure that everyone understands that this law will not work for long. The situation in the country will change, and it will have to be shown that the good news is not so thieving. And now, essentially. It's not the Cabinet of Ministers Act. And unfortunately, this is where the Soviet Union was: each one against and all together against. Who I didn't talk to -- both from opposition, and most of them -- everyone understands that you can't do that. Because the bill on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine proposes to change the entire system of government in the country. The minister of justice in the rostrum told the absolute lie when he claimed that the bill for the execution of the Constitutional Court's decision brought the relevant law into line. That's not true. It's written down by two dozen not entirely the money associated with the Constitutional Court's decision, and all of them, without exception, are aimed at restricting the powers of the Supreme Council to restrict the powers of the Government of Ukraine as a collegiate body, to restrict the powers of the Government of the Autonomous Republic of Crime as a collegiate body, to lose control of the power structures, to budget, to grant to the President of those personnel powers that Kuchima never dreamed of, including the appointment of deputy heads of tax administration. It's so hard to trust tax government flows that can be replaced at any time. President Janukovic now has these powers. I would like us to understand that all the discussions that are now being held by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Grishenko, the other government officials in Brussels, where whenever we are moving towards European legislation, once this law on power is approved, we can stop. Adam Ivanovich said that the work of the commission this morning ended with the fact that they had returned the bill, that the U.S.S.A. was accountable, but he did not tell the whole truth. That which was not returned to Kuchma, the responsibility of the Head of the U.S.S.A. to answer our calls with you, that is not the case, Janukovic removes. We have not returned the responsibility of the Head of the U.S.S.A. to give information to the temporary and permanent commissions that we create with you, most of you create, and Horoshkowski will not give you anything. It's a step back. I want to remind you that members of our committee, including most of them, have proposed other bills, are now registered, strengthen the human resources impact of the Supreme Council on the power structures, thus eliminating any influence, not just the personnel, but even the level of demand. This cannot be done explicitly. The heads of state administration, from the district and above, will not be considered at a government meeting, either in Crimea or in the Supreme Council. If I had been in the government before, I could raise my hand and say, this person I know is definitely not to be put on, because this is her first entry into the employment book by the head of the administration, and there was nowhere to go before. From now on, members of the government have been deprived of such a right, members of your government! It's not a government of opposition. From now on, Prime Minister Jarty and Prime Minister Azarov will personally report to President Yanukovic. Any discussion, any vote shall be ruled out. And that's what's left of it. We can't do this explicitly as we should now if we're going to preserve the rule of law. Introducing the same two laws, one about Kabmin, which will obviously pass, will not be a problem. And the second is about changes to 32 other bills, which must be printed first, Mr. Chief of the Supreme Council, no one has seen him, at least now. The second is to send it to a professional committee and not one, because it concerns both the Constitutional Court, and the BSC, and the Plants Act, and the Heat Generation, and the Cogeneration, and the Tax Code, and the Customs Code, and much more. We need to consider it, and after two readings, it is perfectly normal to accept it. I am convinced that when most people read these bills, they will clearly understand that this is not a restriction on the control of the opposition, it is a restriction on your control in the majority of your President's activities. Why he doesn't trust you, I don't know, but he gets rid of your influence on him. And it's not Janukovich's question, it's a systemic question. This cannot be done without discussion without the right to amend the system of power in the country. There's still time to get ready! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u65	Xenia Leapina, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Please, Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u66	Thank you. It seems to me that my predecessor, Anatoly Gritsenko, has made very clear the emphasis on evaluation by the ruler, so I will not say "coalition" anymore, but most of which is not provided by the Constitution, as to what you will end with the adoption of this law. I'm going to talk a little differently, and I'd like to talk about purely professional things, and I'm just going to say a little bit about politics at the end. Note, in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, it is stated that, in connection with extremely short-term terms, it is not possible to make all the observations that arise when reading this bill. And I have a question: Who is in a hurry and for what? Who wants to pass a law that's not legal? And since he's legally incompetent, I'm going to give you a few examples right now. First of all, it turns out that from now on, a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine won't have the right to resign. He can be released by order of the President on his own initiative, by the Prime Minister, but he himself can't quit his job and say, "I don't agree with you," he has no right. Well, I think it's just political slavery. There's a second, very interesting pearl: only in the event of the Prime Minister's death does the government run the First Vice Prime Minister. However, the previous article indicates that the Prime Minister may be dismissed from office from the time of acceptance of the resignation, I remind you that this means the resignation of the government, but the government continues to work and the Prime Minister is dismissed. Since no one has the right to run the government, the released prime minister will continue to run the government, so written a law. We've already talked here about a completely unconstitutional thing that refers to acts by the President, contrary to the 2004 Constitution, or in 1996, commission. This was actually the invention of President Kuchma and his administration, and someone really likes her. It has already been mentioned that the prime minister retains a wide range of powers of the collegiate body, replacing it with itself, which is unconstitutional. And it was said that the President is holding a whole range of appointments that are not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine. I remind you that the President can't appoint, he can't have powers that are not provided for by the Constitution. The authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court on the quota of the Supreme Council in the event of the resignation of the former is excluded. Finally, all we have to do is get to know local self - government authorities in spite of the European Charter and the Law on the Association of Local Self - Government Authorities, which in such cases is consulted, not familiarized. If someone does not understand the difference, think about it. And the last. Colleagues, we have the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u67	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u68	The law we have adopted, not the constitutionality or the validity of this law, has not yet been established; it is now in full operation. I also claim from this rostrum that I demand the implementation of my constitutional and regulatory right to amend this bill, which prohibits putting it to a vote today as a whole. I want to emphasize again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u69	Thank you. We're done, time's up. Please finish one sentence, and you start again. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u70	Vladimir Mikhailovich, unlike you, I'm not breaking the rules right now. So what I'm saying is that this law can be passed in the hall after appropriate amendments have been made, and your attempt to break it all over your knee again, it shows that you're going to a non-legal state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u71	Thank you. The Vetwicki People's Deputy transmits the right to speak to Anatoly Matvienko, please, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Unit conveys the right to speak to Anatoly Matvienka, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Who, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u72	Vyziewski, I'm sorry. Well, please, dear colleagues. The Vetwicki People's Deputy, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u73	Vetwicki National Deputy, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Fatherland Party. I want to ask you where we're going next, breaking the law? And I would like to draw the attention of the people of Ukraine to the fact that this week's provincial coalition is once again going to amend the Constitution and change the powers of the Supreme Council and the President. Of course, this time no one takes account of the views of the Ukrainians. It is clear that today, changing the order of power of the President and of the Parliament and of the Constitution, such changes must be adopted by the people in a universal referendum. And the Constitution is not a toy. By enacting laws such as the Government Act today, we clearly do not allow the people's deputies of Ukraine to know, to make their amendments, to make a quality document, but to act in haste and to break the law again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u74	The National MP of Vizevski is referring the right to speak to Anatoly Matviyenko, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u75	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Dear colleagues, I'd like us to think about what's going on in the last few days and now in this room. We are not legally returned to the 1996 Constitution. I want to refer to the 225 or six deputies who initiated the Constitutional Court's appeal and talked about a violation of the procedure, in accordance with Law 2222. If you are such advocates of the procedure, I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, am addressing you and most of you, please, let us protect the procedures and not violate them today in the way of the law, and even more in the mood, as reported by the interim commission, today to approve everything in general. Now essentially. Prior to what has been said, let us mention what was the main problem of the organization of power and its inefficiency in the Bush era. If very short, this is first of all the permissiveness and uncontrolledness, the absence of any mechanism of control by the people and Parliament over the activities of the President of Ukraine and the permissiveness of the President. On the other hand, it was the lack of a shared responsibility of the government and Parliament for everything the government does. And the third was the weak parliamentary control over the government's activities and the constitutionality of the President's activities and the relevant institutions, and especially the strong ones. Now look what we're doing. We're going back to the Bush version in the worst sense of the word. First, we give him much more than Kuchma had, I mean the President of Ukraine, the authority, we make him a queen, but we do nothing in terms of control and responsibility. Secondly, we humiliate the government's institute in relation to the President and make him a boy on the run. And finally, the third is that we're reducing parliamentary control and we're reducing substantively because today we've talked about what's practically the main function, this is the budget, we're excluding Parliament even in what it's been like in the previous Bush period. We rule out the control of Parliament over its strong structures. And second, with regard to specific changes to the government law. I have many suggestions to 7, to 8 articles, to 19, 24, 30 articles, 46th articles, where the 46th article excludes the role of minister from the formation of substitutes. Well, it's completely absurd in terms of something, well, not the Lord God, but the President's role to him. I propose both the first and the second bills if they are voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u76	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u77	will be voted in the first reading. I urge you not to vote, especially the second one on the first reading, to pass them on to work. Let's think about the people we do, or we'll bite our elbows! Everything is changing, not just Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u78	The Romanyuk People's Deputy is transferring the right to speak to Michael Chechtev, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u79	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! One of the representatives of “Our Ukraine” said that, following the decision of the Constitutional Court with the entry into force of the new Constitution, the positioning of individual deputies, groups and so on was unclear. We totally agree with you. Because, as it is necessary, here is where you fully agree with every word you say and we understand your concern that the relevant documents that regulate the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, should be brought into line with the Constitution, harmonized and removed as quickly as possible. This is where we fully support you, completely. Do you know if you ask questions, ask questions, and what happened to the last five-year term of office? Some call it economic collapse, financial, budgetary, a decline in people's living standards, a crisis. But that's not the point. Nope. It's all derivative. The five-year term of office of the former power was remembered as a complete loss of government. And all the rest of what I called economic collapse, financial, budgetary, crisis is already a viable one, is the result of the loss of governance by the country. If you ask the question in another plane. What's the main thing now? Someone says but stabilizes the situation in the country, normalizes the currency, normalizes relations with Russia, normalizes relations with all countries, and today Ukraine hears, listens. For the first time, Ukraine has come to understand peace. They want to talk to us, to sit at the negotiating table, to conclude long-term strategic agreements. But again, this is not the main thing, and the most important positive is the short cycle of Viktor Yanukovic's cadence, which is the restoration of the government's governance, and all the rest of the investigation has come to an end. Therefore, today, when the Constitutional Court has ruled and segregated by white threads the so-called polytreform and restored the 1996 Constitution, and since, in so little time and in accordance with article of the Constitution, the laws that govern the actions of the State, I mean the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Rules concerning the Supreme Council, we must take a decision with you very quickly and harmonize the legislation governing the work of the authorities with the Constitution and not violate the State administration system. That's the most important thing we have to do. I fully support the Minister of Justice, Alexander Lavrinović, in terms of what needs to be divided into two laws and in terms of what needs to be adopted today. This room is not supposed to come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u80	Finish up, please. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u81	There must be no chaos in management from this room. We must put an end to the rule of government by harmonising the Cabinet of Ministers Act with articles of the new Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u82	Thank you. Jaroslav Jojik, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction. And the next is Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u83	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In discussing today's draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, I would like to begin by reiterating the position of the Ukrainian People's Party on the categorical non-acceptance of the Constitutional Court's decision, which in fact ensured the usurpation of power, not even in the interests of the Party of Regions or President Yanukovic, but in the interests of the group of persons in its environment. The Ukrainian People’s Party also stresses that the powers of the Constitutional Court include only clarification as to the conformity of laws with the Basic Law and not their repeal. The Law on Amendments to the Constitution 2222 was implemented. Therefore, its repeal can take place only through the adoption of a new law. Hence, this decision has nothing to do with the right but merely the satisfaction of the political demand of the rightful authorities. With the same success, this Donetsk Constitutional Court, with the level of legal culture of its members, can undo everything until the “Russian Truth”. In doing so, we would like to point out that within the framework of the 96 Constitution, the parties themselves represented in Parliament and government officials have little impact on decisions taken in the State. The influence of the people's deputies on socio-economic policies in the state will not be much greater than the impact on the appearance and disappearance of the Sun. If the Kuchma presidency is forgotten, I want to remind everyone that now it will depend only on the mood of the President, who will be the first to arrive and what version of the Prime Minister and the members of the government. In this regard, the absence or absence of the Cabinet of Ministers Act has in no way affected Kuchma’s time and will not now affect the real decision on economic, legal, and international policies. Clearly, the National Deputies of the Ukrainian People’s Party in this theater are not going to participate. Therefore, they do not plan to vote in favour of this bill. At the same time, I wanted to make special contact with the members of the People’s Party of the Regions. For the past six months, you have been used to a greater extent only as buttons. Neither your point of view nor your professional knowledge of those who are sitting in the house of the Bank in any way was of any interest. Now they're going to be even less interested. The importance of such political power as the Party of Regions in this state system will mean little. And you will bear the personal primary responsibility for turning democratic Ukraine into an authoritarian state. So let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u84	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u85	Once again, I stress the inadmissibility of adopting this very important bill as a whole. And once again, I'm going to the Party of Regions, and it's not too late to come around. And the first step in this direction should be to take only the first reading of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u86	Thank you. Sémerak Ostap, Timoshenko's Block, please. You don't? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u87	“Julia Timoshenko’s Block”, “Reforms and Orders” Party. Dear colleagues, I do not want to stop once again at the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko does not accept the decision of the Constitutional Court. I would like to pause for more text and talk about it. In fact, the bill that was presented to us today in the session room is completely inconclusive. It is clear that the Cabinet of Ministers, having received the Constitutional Court’s decision on Friday, had already passed this bill on Monday, and evidently the officials or officials knew in advance that the Constitutional Court would accept and prepare this document in haste, or they had an optional view of the preparation, which indicates that there was even a missing number of articles such as 27 and so forth. The other one. What I'm saying is that the document that the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing to us today is, in principle, contrary to the European standards of decentralization of power and the red thread throughout the bill, the centralization of power in the hands of the President. This is unacceptable and must be avoided. Clearly, the commission led by Adam Martinyuk has corrected and found a note in this bill, but unfortunately, Adam Ivanovich, you have not found everything, and what I said earlier obliges us to send this bill to the Cabinet of Ministers for work. Regrettably, this bill cannot be adopted as you suggest in general. With regard to the comments specific to the bill, I was able to find, at least, three serious violations of the Constitution. First. The Ukrainian Constitution does not give the President the right to have other powers than they are listed as an exhaustive list. And this exhaustive list does not have the authority to appoint deputy ministers to appoint deputy heads of other central executive bodies. The President has no such authority, and the articles of this law are therefore 22, 44, 46 in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. The other one. I am surprised by the notion of “the President’s direction”, which is described in article 26 of this law. In fact, it's something that's not understood in Ukrainian legislation, and it's not clear who wrote it, whether it's the President or the President's administration. And the third serious observation about constitutionality, it's a contradiction. The law obliges members of the Cabinet of Ministers to sign the draft decree. In fact, it is a substitute for concepts, and this law cannot be passed in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The closing word is given by the Minister of Justice, Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u89	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I think we all know and see that something can be approved, something not approved, one can not acknowledge the will of the Ukrainian people, expressed in the election of the head of state, but cannot carry out their acts. The decisions of the court may be critical, but decisions made in the name of Ukraine are binding on all government authorities and all Ukrainian citizens. I am very pleased to thank the Supreme Council for taking the draft law into consideration very quickly, which is intended to implement the third part of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The discussion that has taken place today shows that it is possible today to adopt very important decisions, taking into account the proposals that are being made by the Ukrainian national deputies, in certain parts that may become subject to the approved law, in view of the fact that there is always the possibility of correcting what has been done to make it more perfect and more precise in keeping with the basic law. Such suggestions are supported. I want to say that today's work of the temporary special commission has demonstrated the effective, responsible attitude of the Ukrainian national deputies to an important function: bringing Ukraine's legislation into line with the current Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you. Please support the legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u90	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Dear colleagues, all the speeches are over, the whole procedure is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! First of all, I thank all those colleagues who were interested in making and making suggestions with interest. And, indeed, this once again demonstrated the level of the Supreme Council, its preparation for the consideration of urgent bills. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, of the decision, if I am not mistaken, of the third paragraph of the Constitutional Court, where all the authorities, including the Supreme Council, were obliged by the Constitutional Court to immediately consider and bring the legislative act into conformity with the Constitution. [[That's another thing.]] Next. I guess they probably didn't listen as much as they did when I was reading. Therefore, I ask that you pay particular attention now to the observation of Knazevitch. Indeed, we have taken into account the proposal with which he came out, and once again I stress that article 31 of the Security Service Act states: “Constant monitoring of the Ukrainian Security Service’s activities and compliance with its legislation is carried out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. I'm gonna say it again. That's one thing. The other one. I would like to say to my colleague Karmazin's remarks that there should be other committees here. We may join, but when we took a decision yesterday from the Supreme Council, we placed the responsibilities of the Main Committee on the TSC. And to be precise, the main committee in the bill is not the Committee on Legal Policy but the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. On the subject of comments. I would like you and I, dear colleagues, to support some of the suggestions that have been made. I've already called one, I've just repeated what my colleague Klukkowski said. What the colleague offered. I'm sorry, Knazevitch, Klukkowski. Let us agree with the proposal that, in article 7 of the Constitutional Court Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should re-establish the rule that if a judge of the Constitutional Court appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine ceases to be authorized to do so, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will appoint another person to the post, taking only the monthly term. So we're renewing the right that is in the Constitution. We can and should agree with the proposals of both Klukkowski's colleague and Semerak's colleague, who say that in article 24 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers in the first part, where the words “acts and commission of the President” should be taken away from the words “instruction of the President” only “acts”. And the President's actions are the President's decrees and orders. So I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich and honourable colleagues, to put to the proposal of the Supreme Council, to put to the vote of the Supreme Council such proposals of a temporary special commission, which I reiterate were accepted by eight votes of nine present. That when we passed this law, as we did when we adopted the Budget Code with you, as we did when we passed the Judicial and Judicial Law, we divided and passed two separate laws -- both the Cabinet of Ministers Act, and the Law amending the Ukrainian law to bring them into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. That's one proposition. And a second offer. I would also like to vote to adopt these two laws now in general with those proposals that have been made on behalf of the temporary special commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u92	Dear national MPs, distinguished national MPs! I'm putting a motion to the vote -- I ask you very carefully -- to divide these two laws by voting for them at the same time, and to consider adopting them immediately as laws. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[11:27:09]] For 252 Decision taken. I now put to the vote a motion for a decision on the adoption of the draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by dividing it into two. Where the first is the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the further change to a series of laws. [[B in m in s a l in]] On making this decision as laws. And taking into account the proposals made, supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. Registration number, you know, 7208. [[11:28:02]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions? Please. Region Party - 175, Timoshenko-Paternity Block - 4, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 5, Communists - 27, "Block of Lithuania" - 20, non-fractional - 21? Dear colleagues! Two factions, please! - One minute. The two factions, the BUT faction and "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" demand a 30-minute recess. I'm calling a 30-minute recess on demand of two factions up to 12 hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, the break is over, we continue the meeting. Please, there is a desire for those who have taken. Yes. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u94	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. This opposition has caused me to stand up and cry out to you for what you've just done. I'm not doing that. I would like to welcome you to the successful conclusion of your plan. What has actually happened today still requires a certain rating, and the evaluation can be solely one. Adam Ivanovich, I welcome the successful transformation of this hall into a cemetery of the Ukrainian Parliament, a cemetery of Ukrainian democracy. Because otherwise I can't characterize what just happened. For 12 years, I've been working on laws in this room, and I can see that there's no point in working on laws, because Parliament, as such, has actually ceased to exist. I want to remind you what happened. The Constitutional Court decides to repeal the Constitution in order to repeal the Constitution in connection with a breach of procedure. And now you've completely spit on those rules of procedure, you've denied the right of the author of this bill, that is, the subject of the legislative initiative, you've replaced it today instead of his initiative, that was the Kabmin initiative, you're dividing some project into two bills. You don't know what number you've assigned to either one or the other bill, and you don't put one bill, like that was introduced by the subject of the legislative initiative, but there are two bills that, among other things, have been introduced by the vote, that no MP has ever seen. Maybe Adam Ivanovich, you've seen them, we haven't seen them. To talk about what we voted for a “cat in a bag” is, I can't even talk like that. So we actually took something against the accepted procedure and denied the right of any national MP, and there were a lot of them here to do this or to these projects of their own. And that's why I repeat my words, dear colleagues. I congratulate you successfully on the successful conclusion of your plan, which was already in place when the Constitutional Court, if any, ruled on it. You buried the Ukrainian Parliament, you turned this hall into a cemetery of Ukrainian democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u95	Yes, dear colleagues, everyone has the right to express his opinion, we have a democratic society, the more the Supreme Council, this is one moment. One second. I'm going back to the decision that you and I have made, that in view of the fact that we really agreed with the proposals and including the people's deputies who made them in the course of the speeches, that we would entrust the General Legal Office and the Secretariat of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to bring technical and legal remedies into these two laws. On that point again, Roman Mikhailovich, you know better than I do, case law. We have broken the laws several times, following the Constitutional Court’s decision, the Constitutional Court’s decision. So, dear colleagues, let's move on to perhaps a more important question than this. From what? What's that? This question has already been completed. Here we go to the draft Ukrainian Tax Code. Registration numbers 7101, 7101-1. We have two bills, one, the first bill registered by the National MPs and the second bill registered by the Cabinet of Ministers. From what? Is that a question? Please log in from the faction for a minute from the processing procedure on the draft Ukrainian Tax Code. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Well, I guess we can't politicize the hall forever. There are political issues, but in principle, the country most awaits the new budget, the draft budget, the economic budget, where there will be improvements in social standards, pensions, wages, and the budget will be based on a new, so-called Constitution, the Tax Code, which has been carefully developed over several months. There were several iterations and discussions in Parliament, and in the Government, round tables, in the regions. Now we're going to have to go to the last version today, and hopefully we'll do it on first reading. While further dialogue with business will continue until adoption on second reading. I therefore propose to proceed further on the agenda. And from political issues, the point is finally on political issues, and let's continue to deal specifically with the economy -- that's what people are waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, Upper Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u98	Please give the floor to the national deputy Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u99	Teryohin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u100	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Dear Adam Ivanovich, well, I understand that we're here to talk about compliance with some of the regulations and even general bases of parliamentaryism, because here, I don't think most of them are formed anymore, but junta is some kind of junta. But I remind you that on September 7th we discussed this issue in the session hall, cancelled the bill of similar content. [[6509]] That is why article 107, paragraph 2, of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act at this session and in the next consecutive session is a question that is essentially not to be considered. There's a clear standard. Hence, there is no legal basis for discussing the matter at all today. And I can tell you, I understand that this is my performance, you know how.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u101	Please, Lipina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u102	Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine! ” I realize that the country is really looking forward to economic development. But the tax system from the government looks even worse than all the polytreform periphery. And you're setting up a tax pig instead of some development in Ukraine. But beyond that, we understand that the Rules will be violated today, but I immediately warn you, the draft decree given to us and which will now be extended in this room, the draft decree for approval in the first reading of the government draft of the Tax Code, contains a number of amendments. We were able to get to know these amendments only today. I immediately warn you that I have a number of suggestions for these amendments. And the alternative is that now you're going to accept it as a whole without listening to our constitutional rights, our proposals for this draft decision, it's completely unregulatory and unconstitutional. Finally, at least one step can be taken by this Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u103	Yes, they were exchanging thoughts. I don't know, Xenia, where did you get that he'd be accepted as a whole. The project you're referring to, the project you're referring to, the Supreme's decision. Don't yell, you don't yell at me because I have a microphone and you don't have one. Why would you tear your voice down for nothing? We're not in the same situation in this case. The draft decision of the Supreme Council, which is proposed by the committee, is to be adopted as a basis. So no “second reading” proposal has yet been made. Unless you're going to propose. So let's go to the draft Ukrainian Tax Code 7101 and 7101-1. From the authors of Bill No.7101, Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovic will report, please, 10 minutes, full procedure. It's a full-on procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u104	In 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u105	You guys get started.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u106	Good day, if he's good, first of all for his colleagues, and I think he's bad for voters, because today what's going on in Parliament, well, I think it's very similar to, well, the relationship between a rabbit and a widow. Rabbits, they're, you know, there, they're, they're self-preservation instincts, they're overwhelmed by fear. It's very bad that you started, gentlemen, to be afraid, very bad. Because making all the decisions in one office is the trap you're going to fall into. I think all the good you could do for the country. But let's move on to the Tax Code, which, in my mind, should become one of the most systematic anti-crisis documents. And it's very good that we've raised the debate board by our bill at a meaningful level that the government will not drop below. We won't let him down. Indeed, this document that I am presenting today has been worked on by many. But today, understanding that the decision is actually made, which is the basis, I would still like to thank those people who were working on the option that I represent. This is first of all the national deputies of Kseniya Lapin, Natalia Kraljevska, Yuri Karmazin, Mikola Kucherjavinko, the head of the Department of Financial Law of the National Law Academy of the Name Jaroslav Mudrogo, his colleague Alexander Lukashov, Natalia Rosenfeld, Vladimir Ryaboslik, Igor Lavrinenko. I would also like to say thank you for working on this code for Mr. Volodymyr Lanov, who is a member of the European Party of Ukraine; Michael Novikov, deputy head of the Kiev Court of Appeal, as well as tens and hundreds of entrepreneurs from Kharkiv, from Odessa, from Dnipropetrovsk, from Kiev, Zaporozhye, who discussed this bill, because we had more than 50 public discussions. These were real public discussions in which we received our material to improve tax reform through the adoption of the Tax Code. I would not like to dwell in detail right now on the process of work, on the code of government or on the parliamentary majority. I just want to say that it was the pressures of society that forced the government not to accept the abracadabra that we have with you that you accepted without reading in May of this month. I would like to take note separately of the amendments made by the President, and, I think that this option, which will be adopted today, I think, will be accompanied by amendments by the President. Because, despite all the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, this option has become much better than what was adopted in May, but it still needs very serious meaningful work. Nevertheless, I think this code will still push the government and try to put it into effect as of January 01, 2011. I warn you: Ukraine's economy is facing paralysis and parliament will be forced to cancel the Cabinet's standard-setting once again and rewrote tax legislation. Why do I say that? First of all, I'd like to talk about maybe a comparative analysis of these two bills. They're actually different because they have different ideologies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u107	Mikola Dmitrovich, I'm sorry, Mikola Dmitrovich. In fact, if you ask for 20 minutes because you have more than 100 articles, you will be able to perform for 20 minutes. So if you're 20, please be oriented. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u108	Thank you. I was trying to cut back, and then I'll go after the speech that was planned for me. In accordance with the 1996 Constitution, parliamentary elections will be held in Ukraine in the spring of the following year. And it's more likely to come to power in Parliament, probably other people, and by the summer of 2011, the entrepreneurs of the country will be able to obtain normal tax legislation. So I'm calm about the fact that today's option for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs will not be supported by the parliamentary majority. But that doesn't mean we're going to stop fighting for the interests of small and medium-sized businesses in our country. I'd like to say before we start a comparative feature of the government, let's say the version of the Tax Code and our collective, let's say the authorship of this document is this: that we started working on the Tax Code in 2005. [[Ukraine's European Party]] Two thousand amendments were the same, and we worked with them for a year. A proposal was taken into account for the possibility that religious people would not receive individual tax numbers and related tax assistance. It is important to respect those who have the constitutional right to express their position. And we've shown this in our version of the Tax Code. Now in this document 43 chapters, 357 articles. And all of today's bulk of those normative acts that regulate legal relations in the field of taxation, and over 3,000 of them, we put them in 500 pages. I don't want to speak for myself under this version of the Tax Code, which I now represent. The scientific expertise of the Supreme Council of Ukraine gave the best description of this document. Just experts. They write: “An important positive feature of the project is the clear definition of the basic elements of the tax system. Yes, the project clearly defines tax and congregation concepts, the basic elements of the mechanism for correcting them. In addition, the project clearly prohibits the compulsory collection of payments that have tax marks, collection in any form, and in any way other than those provided for in the Code. It is worth paying attention to the detailed definition in the draft of the tax administration in the part relating to tax reporting, the identification of the rights and obligations of the supervisory authorities, types and procedures for tax checks, non-planned, solely through a court decision, the financial responsibility for tax infringements.” It seems to me that this is a sufficiently expertly exhaustive feature of the document. Our document is the Tax Code, from the legal point of view. And that's the first difference between government and government. The opposition draft of the Tax Code has two fundamental differences between government and government. We maintain a simplified system of taxation and radically reform the value added tax. Therefore, there is nothing special to compare, dear ones. The various ideologies of these two bills are obvious. Today, we all, the authors of this bill, the European Party of Ukraine understand that systemic changes in the structure of the economy should be linked to an increase in the share of small and medium-sized businesses in the economy of Ukraine. We've taken into account the interests of small businesses, we've secured a simplified tax system. Moreover, we have substantially modernized it. For those who work on a single tax, we propose to increase the yield limit to 1 million dollars by addressing the issue of pension contributions. They will be included in the amount of the single tax. However, the schemes for minimizing taxpayers of large businesses were eliminated by means of a simplified tax system. Yes, there is. But that is no reason to destroy the simplified tax system. A simplified system of taxation is saving transition economies when people are self-employed and you're talking about destroying it today. What's that for? The reform of the value added tax was another important subject of reform. We suggest introducing a unilateral VAT, which is taxed only on end-consuming consumption, which will enable the elimination of fraud schemes around VAT, and does not provide for any change in actual consumption. In addition, we suggest that the tax rate be reduced to 20 percent to 15 percent. And the main thing is that we're showing compensatory sources of revenue to the budget. The VAT update provides for exemption from the taxation of investments in basic funds, tax breaks, tax credits, and VAT damages. What is happening today with VAT in other countries, such as the Russian Federation? As soon as the crisis began, they immediately accept the changes to the VAT Act and VAT is now returning to the Russian Federation not in 60, but in two weeks and only through camera checks, that is, documentary checks without going into business. What does this talk about? The Russian Federation is fighting for its export markets, and because of reform, so-called VAT restructuring, through these VAT bonds we've given away these export markets, we've destroyed our export potential. So I think that the VAT issue is the main thing that the government should do today. And in our Tax Code, there's a proposal for reforming VAT. In government, everything remains as it is. What do experts in the scientific and scientific board of parliament think about the government's draft code? They quote: “The methodological basis for assessing bills that are in the form of a codex is the concept of codification. The result of codification, which by nature is a form of improvement of legislation, is a new consolidated legislative act, a code that amends normative acts that have previously been in force in the relevant sphere of social relations. The proposed bill of government under many parameters does not fully meet the requirements for legislative acts in the form of codes. Well, in other words, it's not a code, it's just a meeting of existing tax legislation in one. They got it in the same document and everything. Please tell me how to build court practice on this. We did not accidentally involve experts, judges from different backgrounds. of administrative law, of economic law in order to write the code itself, in order that the practice of the court may consist of an understanding of what is, say, reflected in this document, rather than by its decisions, the judges establish new rules that are not regulated in the Tax Code. Moreover, experts from the Science and Technology Administration believe and point out that the relationship between taxpayers and the authorities of the State Tax and Customs Service, the project favours the latter, giving them excessive powers, which sometimes conflict with the relevant constitutional rules of the Ukrainian Constitution, which determine the general principles of the constitutional system. This is article 1, 3, 8, 19, 24, 30, 31, 32. That is, the government document is not only imperfect and is not a code, but it is also contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. In summary, I would like to emphasize that the Tax Code is above all an ideological document. Norms have to determine the development of Ukraine's economy for many years. If we want to see Ukraine as the leader of the export of raw materials and semi-manufacturers, we need to set low rent payments and maintain an active VAT system, as proposed by the government. If we want to create an innovative economy in the country, the capital investment needs to be released from VAT, the depreciation rates increase dramatically, and that's in our Tax Code. I could give one example. Do you know how much time it takes to, for example, depreciate a car? 14 years old. It's been in the European Union for five years. We've increased the rate of depreciation and we've come out by about six years, but that's not enough, considering, well, today the state of the basic funds of our manufacturers. If we want to increase the shadow sector of the economy, we need to destroy the simplified tax system, as proposed in the government bill. If we want to detinify the economy, small and medium-sized businesses need to be given incentives to move into the legal sector of the economy, namely: to carry out tax amnesty, which is in our version of the Tax Code, this tool is missing in government. You can easily imagine the consequences of adopting a government version of the codex. First, the stiffness of Royalty taxation will lower interest in the Ukrainian market by investments. It's called a stop investment. How to get out of the crisis, I don't understand. The abolition of dividend taxation, along with the maintenance of the current tax avoidance agreement with Cyprus, will virtually stop paying taxes in Ukraine. Next. The elimination of a simplified tax system is 2.8 million self - employed people and their families. I'm predicting an increase in unemployment as a minimum of half a million people. Well, I'm not going to talk about rising prices that will be accompanied by these novelties that are proposed in the government version of the code. The budget requirements after the adoption of the Tax Code will not be reduced. And there will be holes that are today, the government will try to shut down by increasing administrative pressure on small and medium-sized businesses. You can only mention one rule that's proposed in the government code is the introduction of so-called market prices when taxpayers are forced to match the price at which they sell and buy raw materials, equipment and products. So peasants will be forced to give in a tax return, to record prices at which they will sell grain or milk, and to declare the price of coal, metallurgy, metal. This is the market economy, gentlemen, waiting for us. And that's considering that after the adoption of the new code, the inspector can arrest the entrepreneur's property at any moment. The version of the Government Tax Code uses the term “arrest” 150 times. I think that these arguments are more sufficient not to support the government's version of the Tax Code. I can say that what the government has done in some parts, for example, in the way it has written down the administration of the income tax, you can work better. There is no particular ideology. But in our version, it's written in the way that the economy and society need it. Regrettably, this chapter was ignored from the point of view of the government. I can say now for those people who are already expressing their view of the simplified tax system. These are representatives of small and medium-sized businesses. I think that if there is such a reform of the simplified tax system in the government code, I think that millions of people will go out and say how they feel about this reform. And I think we're going to be in this solidarity with them. And I think we're going to initiate these processes so that entrepreneurs can protect their right to free enterprise and protect their right to exist in this country as entrepreneurs. Despite the fact that today the Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy will announce its decision on the approval of the government draft of the Tax Code, and the proposed European Party and group of colleagues will be rejected, we will continue to fight for the improvement of Ukrainian tax legislation. And I can tell you that by adopting this version of the Tax Code, reform is just beginning. And the conversation about what tax legislation we're going to have is just going to be reinforced. Because in fact tax reform is not a single act. If we started this discussion in May-month after the President's initiative, let's make a real product, a socially significant product that meets the conditions of the Ukrainian economy in crisis. And we're not going to go out as proposed in the government bill of crisis at the expense of small and small business. It's not moral, it's not right, it's not going to give its meaning, let's say, in terms of economic development. I'd like to finish my speech by saying the following. Regardless of what I have adopted in Parliament today, I would say a critical bill for myself on the Cabinet of Ministers, please pay attention to the Tax Code of the Government and the one I have introduced. I'd like to ask you now, raise your hand, who read both? Here I see two people in Parliament, three people who read this version, four people, five. It's a thousand pages and they could have compared, and it's a shame that 400 other deputies didn't read it. And you, believe me, under new conditions when the President appoints the head of the State Tax Service and the head of the Customs Service, you can't all run into this office. But it will directly affect your interests, the interests of those who today create jobs and are responsible for industry. I'm not talking about a simplified tax system, I'm talking about a small and medium-sized business. We will say our word on the street if the government version of the Tax Code does not leave a simplified system of taxation as it is. But you have the opportunity to say your word today about protecting your interests, and I appeal to your sanity. You remember two months ago, I was standing in this rostrum begging you not to accept that abracadabra in the first reading. You disobeyed me, you disobeyed the other speakers. Then it was canceled. I would like to thank those members of the Party of Regions who have done the same work, and I would like to thank the two vice-premiers who have also come to the point of what has been adopted. But today it will be the same again. That's why I appeal to your common sense: don't act on government proposals, they really look beautiful on the picture, if you go in and count everything that's offered there, the economic pressure, the tax evasion will be even greater. That's why I'm offering you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u109	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u110	So I'm offering you, regardless of all the ideological differences that we have with regard to the economy in Ukraine, understand that this is the last saving of Ukraine's economy in times of crisis. Let's make a quality document. I suggest you accept 7101. Then, together with the government, with the President, we'll work with you and we'll come up with a quality document for everyone, not for everyone who's just sitting in the office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u111	Thank you. Please sign up for a question. Please, 10 minutes Tolstenko, Party of Regions, Schmellow next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Smith Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u113	Gregory Smudge's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u114	Mikola Dmitrovich, thank you for your information, for sure you've been working on this material or your colleagues have been working on it, there's something to listen to. At the same time, I have one question, if I recall, in 2005, you were the first deputy head of the Tax Administration and why you did not realize your motives at the time when you had everything, and the President your godfather and other friends were. You could have implemented that question, your ideas that you're telling us today are the first question. And the second question is, you're saying that it's going to be eliminated on a simplified system of 3 million people who have private, there, entrepreneurs. And please tell me if you've analyzed whether this is a tax evasion scheme in a state that is so lacking in social needs, whether these people are actually doing in what percentage, so to speak, in the real sector that really gives jobs and actually brings benefits to the state. Give a specific answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u115	Thank you for asking. I always specifically answer the questions asked. First of all, I do have a godfather president, but this is a religious question, they don't refer to politics. You know, best man is not best man, but truth is more expensive and principles more expensive. That's the first one. Secondly, I worked at the State Tax Administration as the first deputy, headed the Tax Police, and that's when we started working on the Tax Code. But then DPA's leader, Mr. Kiriev, by his command, banned this activity and so we moved the Tax Code into the public sector, that is, we went straight to entrepreneurs and set up tax clubs all over the country and started working on this version of the Tax Code. Regarding the simplified tax system. You know, it's a big mistake to prevent large taxpayers from using a simplified tax system to minimize their tax liabilities, to eliminate them, it's a mistake. We need to destroy, first of all, a fictitious enterprise, the ability to discover fictitious firms and conversion centers. A simplified tax system.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u116	Finish up. Go ahead, Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u117	The simplified tax system doesn't have anything to do with this, you know, where these centers are created by minimization and who uses them. 2.8 million works. If they now accept the standard that is offered in government, that there will be only small businesses, or actually small traders, or those who do crafts, there will be about 300,000 left, and that will be a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u118	Please, Schmellow's handing Gordienka, the microphone of Gordienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u119	Dear reporter, dear colleagues! I'd like two questions first. It was very strange in your speech that you continue this discussion on the street, what does it mean first? That's the first one. And the second. Please tell me this from common sense I'm asking if you've submitted your proposals to that bill that you've so criticized that was accepted as you said not in the way that you think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u120	Thank you for asking. What did I mean by street discussions? I believe that if the Ukrainian Tax Code does not preserve and protect the legitimate interests of small and medium-sized businesses, then the European Party of Ukraine will initiate protests requiring a stand-up and return to the simplified tax system that exists today, in crisis conditions, it is a crime against them, to eliminate the simplified tax system. Even the reform that is proposed is discriminatory and we will do it, I promise you. As for the second question, I didn't write it down. Did I make my suggestions? The point is that today the Tax Code is being considered, well, it's a whole document, and the government goes as an alternative to the MP. Therefore, we will make adjustments once the Supreme Council has made its decision on what it will be based on. Because amendments are made to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u121	Please, Davidenko's handing over the mike to Jojik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u122	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Mr. Mikola, recently one of the leaders of Boris Kolesnikov's Party of Regions in the newspaper “Derkalo Week”, interviewed him about the fact that passing the tax administrations' premises, he felt that he was getting into a modern car dealership. Obviously, this is the result of the tremendous corruption of the tax administration in today’s Tax Law. As we know, both the President of the country and many members of today’s majority claimed that they had made a very significant change in the administration process in this Tax Code. From your point of view, if this Tax Code is actually put into effect, will the country tax collector switch to “Lanos” or will it move from the modern auto showroom to the modern Maya? From your point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u123	In fact, there is a problem of tax administration reform. And that's what it's supposed to be, the main subject of the Tax Code. Well, you know, we have a separate income tax, and VAT is separate, so it's impossible to get close to reporting. It's about what you say about corruption. Well, if you enter a unilateral VAT today, what will the DPA do? I don't know. Because today everyone is only doing VAT return, or creating obstacles for exporters, or other things. I think it's a question of what you're talking about, about corruption, it's a question of, well, not being solved by the Tax Code, unfortunately. There are really mechanisms that communicate remotely between the taxpayer and, say, the state. But there's very little government code for administration, let's say attention is paid. Because they don't actually reform VAT, they leave as much as there is income tax, they just regulate the rates. But they don't go into the depths of this administration, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u124	Please, Zinov's lap.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u125	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich! Skutak, “Our Ukraine”. Please tell me, don't you think that the Tax Code introduced by the authorities is an attempt to reverse Ukraine's economic development in the past? So, at the same time, is this not a payback to a small and medium-sized business that at the same time supported the orange revolution?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u126	Well, you know, as a man who's proud of the orange revolution and what it's done, I can tell you that there's a lot of people there who've stood for economic freedom, for the civilized rules of the game, you're right. What's proposed is, well, there's, you know, half-reform, that's it, it's written in this way to report. In fact, this option is not going to work. And even if you take it as a base in the first reading and then copy it and it's going to be copied. And I think there's going to be a lot of people involved, and there's going to be a lot of amendments. But we're not going to write it because two different ideologies are happening. Ideology, let's say, “for everyone” and “for yourself” ideology. And these are different things that can't be combined. Look at what benefits are being paid in different sectors of the economy, not all of them. You see that a simplified tax system should serve as a macroindicator for lowering tax rates. So they compensate for the cost, the sources of compensation for reducing VAT by 1 percent or lowering the income tax by 1 percent, on the basis of a simplified tax system, that's all. So I think the slogan is that the rich will share with the poor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u127	Please, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u128	Dear reporter, I wanted to ask you. Indeed, despite the cosmetic repairs, the Tax Code of the government actually destroys both small and medium - size businesses. At the same time, we're left with big capital, oligarches and their huge capital is not taxed because it's hiding in offshore areas. And that's the problem. And I wanted to ask you. What you're seeing is ways for this big capital to leave its money here so that they don't spend on their own businesses like lemons, and all the money is going to run them abroad, and to make this money work to modernize their businesses, they're creating new jobs here. How do we get the money to be hidden in the offshores and stay here in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u129	A difficult question, but the answer is simple. Create conditions for the national capital to be comfortable working here and he wasn't afraid of hiding money abroad. That's it. And what's left of the government's option is actually not to pay taxes to a big business by making money on Cyprus, well that's obvious. I think it's a hole that will have to be taken into account in the second reading. Because that's how no Azarov and any other budget is going to do it. Because they're coming out, they're just exporting billions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u130	Yes, thank you, Mikolo Dmitrovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u132	In this way, we give the floor to the Bill of 7101-1 of the Minister of Finance, Jaroshenko Fedor Aleksiyovich. Please, Feder Alexiyovich. 20 minutes. Fedor Alexiyovich, to the rostrum. And Gritsak, please don't interfere with the government's mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u133	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, there have been a lot of different thoughts, but I want to tell you very briefly what we are presenting today. Today, the government is presenting a project for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is the basis for the main task set by President Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic of Ukraine, which is a continuous increase in the welfare of Ukrainian citizens. State of the market economy. The basis for creating a prosperous society is always the development of entrepreneurship. The private initiative itself is a locomotive, an engine of economic development, but the modern tax system is a product of the 1990s, while the national economy is already living by the rules of the 21st century. So today, Ukraine’s tax system has become a business brake. Taxation in Ukraine has existed for 20 years and remains the only area of law in which there is almost absolutely no systematisation. Taxes are the basis of state regulation of the economy, but there are not even basic principles for the functioning of the tax system in Ukraine. The definition of taxes as an economic and legal category is given in at least three laws. The rights of control authorities and taxpayers are governed by more than ten laws. Part of the tax rules are contained in legislation that does not apply at all to tax matters. Individual taxes and congregations are regulated by decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which were approved more than 10 years ago. What are the positive trends in the economy that we expect after that? What incentives can we talk about for the development of an enterprise? Taking into account the systemic tax problems, President Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic of Ukraine defined the general concept of his reform, as set out in the 2010-14 Economic Reform Programme. It's providing sustained economic growth on the basis. an innovation and investment base, while increasing aggregate tax revenues to the budgets of all levels and public trust funds. This is the purpose of tax reform. The Economic Reform Programme foresees ways to achieve the goal. The legal basis for the functioning of the reformed tax system should be the Tax Code, which the Supreme Council is considering today in its first reading. The draft Tax Code presented to you is designed in accordance with the terms of the Economic Reform Programme and taking into account the proposals made in the process of public discussion of the project. Please note that Ukraine today had no draft regulatory act of a strategic level that is the product of social discussion. During a nationwide discussion, the government received over 4,000 proposals for the project. They were all carefully worked by scientific and expert groups, which were made up of leading Ukrainian economists and legal scientists. Therefore, the draft Tax Code is a product of social compromise, reconciliation of interests between citizens, businesses, and the state. What innovations does the draft Tax Code offer? First. This is a change in the chaotic patching of holes in the taxation of fire extinguishers into systemic, stable, and predictable tax regulations. The draft Tax Code is a coherent, harmonious document that corresponds to European tax approaches and aims to stimulate innovation and investment in the economy. The project is based on a simple strategy based on three principles. This is the removal of administrative obstacles to business development, the orientation of the tax administration system for the protection of legitimate rights and the interests of virtuous payers, the creation of economic incentives for small, medium and large business development, the taxation of natural persons in proportion to their income and property status. Such principles are implemented through the provisions of the draft Tax Code. The tax administration system is the object of constant criticism by both domestic business and international experts. In order to develop the economy successfully, every taxpayer must be confident that, once he fulfils his constitutional duty to pay taxes in the size determined by law, he will not feel any administrative pressure, any limitation of his legal rights and interests. Without this condition, businesses, especially small and medium -sized businesses, will not develop. The modern system of administration cannot guarantee the protection of the legitimate rights of taxpayers. This system is all about doing one task: increasing revenue to the budget in any way. The derivative of this task is the negative features of the modern system of tax administration – neglect of legitimate rights and the interests of payers, fiscal pressure on payers to make them pay taxes above the statutory level, protection by the monitoring authorities of uniform honour even in cases where their officials' actions were openly illegal; low quality of services provided to taxpayers; conscious confusion and contradiction in the application of tax legislation; inefficient work to prevent tax evasion and destruction. The logical result of such a tax administration system is society’s mistrust of public authorities, caused by unprofessional and, in some cases, by illegal acts. Instead, the draft Tax Code proposes a system of administration for which a person, a taxpayer, is the primary value. The main tasks of such a system are to ensure that the law is respected by all taxpayers, to protect the legitimate rights and interests of taxpayers. This task will be achieved by applying the following normative tools. First. Identifying a comprehensive list of the rights of control authorities and their grounds for application. The other one. The imposition of external judicial control over the application of powers of control authorities that may cause substantial restrictions on the rights of taxpayers to cause them material damage. Third. Simplifying the procedure for administrative prosecution of decisions by the supervisory authorities, excluding unnecessary links that only complicate the procedure and cause them to be delayed. Four. Implementation of the principle of the legality of the decisions of taxpayers. Fifth. Organizing the procedure for clarifying tax legislation, establishing tax advice that is in line with best practice in the world. Six. Legislatively determine the validation of the tax returns to the original documents. Seven. Implementation of a risk-oriented tax control system. Eight. The introduction of the State’s material liability for the damage to taxpayers as a result of the unlawful actions of the controlling authorities. And finally, the last. The lifting of burdensome and unfair fines, which in some cases amounted to up to 200 percent, and replacing them with a total progressive scale of 25 percent in the event of a first infringement, 50 in the event of a recurrence and 75 in the event of a third infringement and more times. In addition to protecting the legal rights and interests of taxpayers, the project is also aimed at simplifying administrative tax procedures in general, including reducing the number of taxes, and will continue to bring tax and accounting revenues closer to allowing payers to refuse to keep two accounts at the same time; and introducing simplified accounting procedures for small business entities. In general, the draft Tax Code provides for the creation of a new administration system that is user-friendly for taxpayers, which protects their legitimate rights and interests, ensures compliance with the requirements of the law for all taxpayers and simplifies administrative tax procedures for taxpayers. Such an administration will cease to be a business brake and create the necessary conditions for its development. The foundation for the economic development of our nation is the formation of a full, wealthy middle class, and tax incentives will also be the basis for it. Most small businesses, as well as those who start their own business, will be able to use a simplified system of taxation. For small businesses in general, tax breaks will be granted from a five - year income tax. The medium and large businesses will receive a real reduction in the tax burden due to the reduction in basic public taxes. Income tax will be reduced by 6 percent from 1.01. In 2011 Since 2013, the income tax will be reduced by 1 percent annually to 16 percent. For 10 years, exemptions will be made from taxation on the income of businesses operating in the fields of light industry, hotel services, shipbuilding, and aircraft construction. It is anticipated that conditions will be created to upgrade production capacity by introducing accelerated depreciation. The cost limits for primary vocational training of workers, their training, and their skills have been lifted. This will boost investment in human capital, help increase the share of highly skilled workers with a high level of wages. From 2014 to 17 percent, the value added tax will be reduced. As early as 2011, VAT payments will be released from operations involving metal scraps, grain crops, and forests. This will reduce the tax burden on end-users of finished products, which are citizens of Ukraine. The additional resource that is being released will encourage owners to increase the wages of hired workers, improve the business climate, increase the level of investment and the real economy, and will help introduce automatic compensation for the added value tax. The project is also designed to create favourable conditions for the start of its own business, as it is one of the main ways to form a state of full-fledged middle class. To this end, an updated tax system will be proposed with a single tax. In addition to much reduced taxes on basic activities compared to other taxpayers, tax exemptions will be introduced, and the accounting account will be considerably simplified. This will enable you to start your own business without prior possession of special knowledge at the level of an experienced accountant. In general, only a direct reduction in tax burden next year will exceed, as previously estimated, 4 billion dollars. Taxation will be substantially improved by excise taxes. Instead of six non-conformity acts, excise taxation will be governed by one section of the Tax Code. The introduction of an annual index of specific excise duty rates per consumer price index will make them clear and predictable for the taxpayer. In addition to the overall increase in the welfare of citizens by increasing the economy and lowering consumption taxes, a number of money will be invested in the taxation of citizens' incomes. The foundation of this money is the practical introduction of a fair approach in which the rich pay more taxes. To this end, two individual income tax rates will be introduced: 15 for incomes less than 10 minimum wages per month, 17 for incomes greater than 10 minimum wages per month. 5 percent of the tax will be taxed on deposits that exceed 200,000 dollars. For wealthy citizens, a property tax of 10 dollars per square metre will be offered. Along with taxing the income of wealthy citizens, a number of additional benefits will be offered for middle-income citizens. 100 percent of additional social benefits have been paid to persons who support two or more children under the age of 18 months. For every child. A 5 percent reduction in the rate of income from the sale of movable property. Setting a zero tax rate for inherited sums of depreciated citizens' savings. It is reduced by taxing the amount of State support for the construction or acquisition of affordable housing that is provided to the taxpayer in accordance with legislation and by including in the tax reduction the taxpayer’s expenses for the construction of affordable housing. I would also like to point out that the draft Tax Code offers for the first time a real solution to the problem of transportation. According to the project’s provisions, the transport tax will only be paid at the first registration of the transport congregation. Every year, it will be necessary to spend time on citizens and businesses to pay this tax in order to carry out burdensome administrative procedures. The draft Tax Code contains a number of other positive money to enable Ukraine’s economy to develop rapidly and citizens to increase its well-being. In particular, taxes on local taxes are radically changing, today a cumbersome, not effective system that has more than 10 taxes will be replaced by a simple and harmonious, to a composition. The local tax system will include four taxes that form the basis for the financial autonomy of local budgets. A level playing field between government local budgets is projected to come from the environmental tax of 50 by 50. This will ensure that local budgets are effectively replenished to finance conservation measures. In Ukraine a long time ago, there were talented and hardworking people who worked hard to create their own wealth. President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic is responsible for helping citizens to realize their abilities, to protect their legitimate rights and interests, to support socially vulnerable groups of our society. The Tax Code is a comprehensive, harmoniously integrated document that will ensure that the interests of the State and taxpayers are balanced, the competitiveness of the domestic tax system. It will be the basis for building new relations between the State and society. The adoption of the Tax Code will result in the development of the economy, financial security and the state’s commitment to citizens, and the formation of the middle class as the foundation of Ukrainian society. Thank you for your attention and for your support for the draft Tax Code in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u134	Thank you. Sign up for questions. Please, 10 minutes, Mikhailo Chechetov, Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u135	Dear Fedor Aleksevich! You know, for 10 years, there was a debate and policy proposals on the need for a single Tax Code, but there was no political will. And we should pay tribute both to the President of the country and to the Cabinet of Ministers, headed by Nikolai Janović Azarov, and personally to you as Minister of Finance, which has not only been sufficient for you to have the political will to develop this one, I would say, the tax constitution, but most importantly, the patience is not just enough to come into the hall and say "let us vote quickly" but for more than six months to have a direct discussion with society, it is not that simple. The power of argument you stood up for, proved something you took somewhere, and here we go to the latest version of the document that I hope we'll take on first reading. And until the second reading, there's no question about it. One small question is whether a simplified procedure for the prosecution of decisions is being simplified, or whether it is now a simplified procedure for the prosecution of decisions by the supervisory authorities in the bill or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u136	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, a very interesting question. Yeah, it's a really simplified system, and now there's a trilinear system. We're introducing a court system that eliminates many chains that have not really protected the legitimate rights of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u137	Sergey Teryohin, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u138	Thank you. Feder Alexiyovich, you know, after briefly commenting on the tax constitution, I think to her, by analogy with the Constitution of Ukraine, the same thing will be done. But let's say, please don't worry, let's say that your 503-page project, the explanatory note you gave on page 18, up to 503 pages, our Science and Experimental Authority wrote comments on page 33, and the profile committee made a decision with notes on page 10. Does this not indicate that Mr. Azarov’s government was unprepared to prepare the project?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u139	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich, for a very good question. I mean, not really, not at all. We appreciate your time very much and we have an explanatory note on 20,000 letters, if you want, in electronic form, please meet. But we gave you integrated already, an explanatory note of integrated conclusions, reflections, work already and so forth. So Mikhail Vasilovich, he made it absolutely clear that we worked in a round-the-clock regime, you could say, the Ministry of Finance, this issue over a six-month period. Yeah, we put together this algorithm, we're working with all the teams that actively want to improve this document. And to my profound belief, I think that this draft of the Tax Code will really become a historical document, the foundation of tax policy in Ukraine for many years. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u140	Please, Samuelk passes the word Simonck, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u141	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Fedor Aleksevic, let us be sure that the new Tax Code will work, we will answer a few questions and, above all, what happened to Ukraine since 1991. Until 1991, almost the vast majority of industrial and agricultural enterprises are profitable, and the wages of the day are paid and God saves so that one of the leaders does not pay the wages. Taxes were paid according to the time and until the penny, and God saves the head of a copier somewhere in the annual report. The pension fund was filled and there were no problems. At the same time, the financial inspectors were from 3 to 5 people, which I remind all reformers. Today, in the district structure, the tax administration has between 70 and 100 people. Next. I would like to emphasize once again that for decades there have been stable taxes as well as the system itself. What has happened to Ukraine since 1991 that we are changing taxes each session? What happened is that we have a business.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u142	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u143	What's happened is that businesses and managers don't pay taxes, they hide in the shadows, and so on and so forth. Please tell us what happened to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u144	Thank you, I'll answer that question. I think you'll agree with me completely, that we really did what happened to the disunity of many states, that was a state called the Soviet Union, and now we're working and in this state we've been working as an allied state, and we've been doing our part in clear legislation. I was also surprised by the situation that had taken place in Soviet times under Gorbachev’s rule. And when I was at the XXVIII party meeting, I was personally talking to economic science apologists Mr. Hanbigian and Abalkin, who clearly told me that, Feder, you don't have to worry, we need to talk to Moscow, there, a little bit, there, the state reserves, the rest -- what you want to do. And that's when we got there, when we switched, we went completely into the new economic formation, that is, we were building communism at the time, and we were all waiting for apples to grow on Mars in 1980, unfortunately we saw, yes. So, yeah, and we went to the market, we went to the market, we went to the market economy. I think this is the right way. And as a result of what Peter Mikolaiovich says, you're absolutely right, but the forms that we've broken off economic ties with enterprises, our enterprises, well, they may have been working together. And then there's 1988, by the year 2000, I want to tell you that we had 100 percent bartering, we didn't even have money like the state. And that's what they were about. Rizkov gathered us in the green hall and advised us, he gathered us, there was, Skudar, I know, here we shared with him as managers of big businesses and advised us what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u145	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u146	Overcoming the economy. Right now we're here with you and we're building a foundation for economic ties between the state and the subject of farming, which is the Tax Code. All we've done before is patch holes. Now it's a completely different document that will try and give our citizens a future and people who live on our planet to communicate and work in Ukraine very effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u147	Please, Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u148	To determine the size of the hole, in particular, I ask Paul’s Andrew to pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u149	Please consider the parliamentary terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u150	Andrey Pavlovski, the “Fatherland” party. Mr. Secretary, I hold in my hands the appeals of entrepreneurs that are today. Yesterday, in Zaporozhye, in Lugansk, Žitomir, Chernigov, in Suma, Ternopol, Hmelnicki, in other cities, mass protests took place. And that's what they're asking them not to accept in an editorial that now has a government code, because they think that they're going to just be destroyed as a class, as a small, medium-sized business. And the 3 million people they represent will be thrown into the street with their families, filling up an army of unemployed. And the second question. I'll give you this resolution. Every month in Ukraine, billions of dollars are hidden in offshore areas. This amount is enough to carry out reforms and not ask for these billions under the demeanor of the International Monetary Fund. What government does.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u151	Yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u152	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u153	The question is understandable. Thank you. So the first question I want to ask you is that it's really nice that we have different proposals and there's such a Ukrainian saying that you can't cover your tiles for every year. So the person who wants to, he has to say, is a great achievement in our country. And if we do, we've had this discussion all over the country. Therefore, we will certainly take into account the suggestions you make to me in the second reading. Regarding the taxation of foreign investors and offshore enterprises, we have an extremely well - defined Royalty Taxation System, which will also involve such investors, businesses, and households involved in taxation. And we still have a system that in the process of administration, when you read it carefully, it paints exactly, a risk-oriented system will allow you to work completely differently with virtuous payers and payers who avoid taxation. There's no such system right now. We check everyone in a row, that's what the law says. And if the taxpayer doesn't check it, they'll be held accountable. Thank you. This will not happen with the introduction of a new codex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u154	Please, Romanyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u155	Dear Fedor Alexiyovich, please tell us how the bill prevents the establishment by public authorities of unwarranted congregations and tax payments and protects the rights of payers? And also, please, about the tax of the transport congregation. More details, please, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u156	So we have 17, 18, 19, 20 articles in the draft Tax Code. It is the rights of tax payers, the rights of control authorities and their responsibility for illegal acts. And there's absolutely, literally all of this is written down, and I'm not going to quote it to you because it's a very long time. But they are grouped, harmoniously combined, and rights will be, and duties, and only many standards that govern, for example. Well, first of all. If now the funds from the accounts, there, and the property of the tax-paying entities, are being collected by the tax authorities there, the draft of the new Tax Code will be conducted solely on the basis of a judicial decision. Regarding the transportation congregation. I have a lot to tell you about it in detail, I think it's inappropriate, because there's only going to be a first payment on the first check-in, the rest of it's going to be eliminated, it's not going to be. It is the rudimentary of the old Soviet system of ours. It's not used in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u157	Yes, thank you. Please sit down, Feder Alexiovich. The word has the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u158	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The committee considered both bills, both tax codes, at its meeting. Moreover, the committee held public hearings last week, inviting almost all business organizations of public, financial, industrial, scientific, business, national MPs. We had such a thorough meeting, discussed all the questions, all the suggestions. Today I will talk about many of them. Sadly, only one draft law, or government law, was present. Another draft law we didn't consider at public hearings, because Mikli Dmitrovitch was gone. As for the bills that were being considered today. Adam Ivanovich, I would like, if possible, 20 minutes too, because I need two.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u159	No, I'm sorry, for 10 minutes, and we'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u160	Thank you. I have two bills to report right away, I understand. Initially, it was registered under registration number 7,101 under the bill of Mikolia Catherinechuk. This bill is not a substantively developed version of the draft Tax Code, which was previously considered under registration number 2215. The committee has considered this bill and can highlight the following. The bill shows a great deal of work on systematization and generalization of legislation governing tax relations: codification of tax laws, simplification of their presentation, convergence of tax and accounting accounts. At the same time, the bill contains numerous internal contradictions. Its individual positions do not meet the requirements of regulatory and design technology, do not comply with the legislation of Ukraine and the requirements of the EU, which are not clear, which may lead to a conflict of laws and other negative consequences. Mikola Dmitrovic referred to scientific and expert management and to the position of our scientific and scientific management. I would also like to read a few of the adjectives that have been expressed by our scientific and expert administration, the Supreme Council, to the Bill of the People's Deputy, Catherinechuk. Item 3. Note that the individual standards of the Final and Transitional Regulations have already lost their meaning and need some refinement. And certain positions are already included in current legislation. In particular, at paragraph 14. With the aim of conducting an economic experiment in housing on the basis of the holding company Kyivmiskbud to establish that by 1 January 2009 it does not count the gross income of natural persons. Item 15. Temporaryly by 1 January 2009, it does not include in the gross income of taxpayers the taxes derived from the sale of the customer's publishing product, and still in the text. Also by January 1, 2009, the value added tax should be paid to the budget by all forms of ownership. That is to say, there are dozens of norms that no longer make any sense and have lost meaning, but also in time, after the deadlines of January 1, 2009. And then again, science and science. According to Part Two of the Final Regulations and Transitional Regulations of the Project, a special part of the Tax Code takes effect on January 1, 2012. At the same time, according to part 23 of the project, as of January 1, 2010, the laws of Ukraine and the list of laws have become invalid. A series of ten laws that lose their existence a year earlier. So there's a lot of rules that not only conflict with each other, but they've lost all sense. What it says is that probably the authors, when they drafted the bill in 2007, probably didn't fully read and regulate even such simple standards at first sight. Also questionable about the feasibility of practical implementation is the rules of article 89 of the project, according to which, in the absence or absence of funds in the taxpayer’s accounts, the public tax authority has the right to raise funds in the amount of cash in arrears. So this rule is fiscal enough, and it doesn't have the support of the committee and the National Deputies. About the VAT. The bill proposes to introduce a new tax — a tax on the added value of unilateral action and a new order of action — instead of a valid tax. The introduction of a tax in this form is extremely risky and unreasonable, since there is no world practice in applying such a tax. The introduction of a unilateral VAT may lead to a substantial limitation of the tax payer’s circle and a significant reduction in the budget’s revenues. Also understandable is the proposal that legalizes property and income received, let us say, illegally. This standard is also prescribed in the science and science department. And I'm going to read again what it says so that there's no idea what a biased view is. What the Scientific and Experimental Authority writes: “It is necessary to justify the purpose of inclusion in the Final Positions of the Project Legalization Mechanism. In particular, the project envisages a legalization period for the year from 1 January 2010 to 30 December 2010. The legalization of income is a mandatory condition for entities to legalize income declarations and the tax authority concerned.” First of all, once again, it's clear that it's impossible to do this this year. But more than that, which is described by the scientific and expert office, that without amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot adopt any law relating to criminal liability. So actually, the amnesty that the author is talking about is kind of in agreement with what the previous offenses were, and the confession of these offences. This also means that with regard to each person who voluntarily declares his or her hidden income under the project and who actually declares that he or she has committed the crimes provided for in article 207, 208 and 212 of the Criminal Code, a criminal case must be brought against him. And only after it has been fully investigated and brought to justice will there be a basis for deciding whether a person should be released from criminal liability and then legalized accordingly. So it's also being taught in science and science. I could still read about the flaws. Of course, there are benefits to this bill. And I think that the positive articles that the author has, I think they'll be useful in furthering the second reading of that bill that recommends that the committee be adopted. I can immediately say that the committee recommends that this has already been the case, and the committee recommends the adoption of a government draft law. As for the government bill that was registered next and the same number, but then there's 1, that's 7,101-1. Adam Ivanovich, if possible, another 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u161	Come on, let's add three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u162	I'm asking for 10 minutes because I'm reporting two bills from the committee, two at a time. The authors reported 20 minutes each.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u163	You bet in five minutes because you have five minutes. We've increased you to 10 minutes, as it's more than 100 articles. So please. Criticism is a good thing. Better be positive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u164	I'm not talking about criticism, actually. It's about the government bill. A minister of finance reported on the advantages of the bill. And I'm not going to stop at the positive things that the tax code draft has been developed by the government. In support of the adoption of the government draft Tax Code in the first reading, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the committee, recommend that the project be adopted on the basis of excluding certain positions and making, as it were, certain boards that should be changed in the course of the second reading. All this material, which will be presented in a draft decree that was registered by the committee, was discussed at the working groups and at the public hearings that I talked about. First, this refers to the existence in the subsequent special regimes of taxation, which are now established in different laws. There can be no double position in the draft code regarding the existence of special taxation regimes, not only in the code, but also in other laws. Secondly, there is no public acceptance of the need for legal and natural persons to provide information on the rental of a tax office, i.e. the renter of any premises. Thirdly, there was no support for the possibility of removal by officials of supervisory authorities on the basis of the decision of the court of the original financial and accounting documents, except in cases where such removal is carried out in accordance with the rules of criminal law. We also have to make it clear that taxpayers should receive free forms of tax declarations submitted to the public tax authorities. It is also seen that in furthering the second reading it is necessary to improve certain positions, namely: as regards the general situation, it is necessary to bring the system into line with the authority of rural, local, tax and congregation councils, and in this regard it is necessary to draw the conclusions of legal professionals from constitutional law. Terminology needs to be improved to simplify their use and to prevent multiple interpretations. And there was also a reference from the science and science department. We have to provide a more clear and transparent mechanism for tax payer relations and the State Tax Service in terms of normal price and relative to the price of household transactions. For the second section of tax administration. We need to strengthen the responsibility of the officials of the controlling body for unwarranted refusal to accept a tax declaration by establishing that such refusal is regarded as exceeding official authority and has the proper effect. The issue of refusal to accept a declaration today is not only raised at various public hearings, it is the emphasis of entrepreneurs, industrialists, and numerous letters to the committee. We need to provide an automatic regime to change the identity number of the individual to the registration number of his account card and to remove the tension in society among believers. The previous author said that all, let's say, the proposals of believers included in 7101, I want to prove and convince that in the government project all things will be written, and we will be conducting consultations with both the church, and with the lawyers, with the taxpayers, Minfin, and we will find the best way to solve the issues that concern many today. There must be the same order of checks. The whole block is about checks. And the committee recommends that, in addition to the second reading, the inspection procedures be improved by the supervisory authorities. I'm not going to stop essentially, it's also stipulated in the decision. For chapter three, it's a corporate income tax. Tax rules for the depreciation of basic funds need to be simplified by clarifying the amount of expenditure associated with the improvement of basic funds that can be applied to expenditure of 10 percent per.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u165	Would you please sign up for the question? Please, Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u166	I give the word to Paulus Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u167	Andrew Pavlovsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u168	Dear reporter! Experts estimate that the total number of beatings of those working on a simplified procedure will now be over 900 dollars. Compare the 200 bracelets they paid under the government of Yulia Timoshenko and now over 900 dollars. And at the same time, there's a sharp reduction in the number of activities that these people should be able to do. And at the same time, they have the benefit of a large capital, the oligarchs who hide their capitals in offshore. How do you view this problem as a solution to the problem of keeping money from hiding in offshores and keeping a small business?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u169	Thank you. I have not been able to complete my report, and there is also an answer to the question that you are addressing in this report. We have proposed to improve the small business taxation mechanism and will work on the committee to find agreement between small business operators and the authors of the bill. First of all, we offered those who would be on, as it were, tax vacations, to report once a year, at income tax and at VAT. I think it would be worth at least once a quarter, maybe once a year, to report on the income tax. I think we should simplify tax and accounting as much as possible so that the tax vacation thesis corresponds to what it should be. If we wish, we will work together in this direction and find some compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u170	Please, Eugene Chago.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u171	Please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u172	Boluri microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u173	Please tell your attitude as head of the committee, yours as a public figure, to such a new tax as deposit tax. Not just as a tax, but a tax that violates human rights in general violates the Law on Banking in general on the secrecy of all activities. And the main thing is probably that there's going to be very sharply reduced investment revenue in the form of deposits, which now make up the very basic fate and investment in banks, I'm talking about Ukrainian investment. I'm not talking about how, what scheme, whether it's ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u174	Thank you for asking. Again, the answer to this question is, in some parts, in the committee's draft regulations. This is certainly one of the basic issues of the Tax Code. And at this point, there's an agreement that we have to find a way to meet this rule, but not break the Banking Secret Act. There are proposals to make banks tax agents to collect this tax, and once a year they're going to add it to the budget, there are different other proposals that are now coming from the National Bank. But the committee stresses that, with regard to deposit tax, we have, if we comply with this standard, not to break the bank's secret and not to make this field unprotected today. And that's millions today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u175	Please, Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u176	Dear Vitaly Juryevich! Tell me honestly, do you believe that this abracadabra can actually earn an effective salary from 1 January 2011? For example, I highly doubt that. And a few more questions. You understand perfectly that we are now looking at the cover largely because the national standards are approved by the Ministry of Finance. And we have a huge risk of adjusting these national standards with a view to artificially expanding the tax base. And we are well aware that the Ministry of Finance will form a tax base at its discretion. Likewise, it is not clear to me that you may be able to explain that what cannot now be eliminated by the “tax pits” eliminates all activities, in the context of not being included in the cost of purchasing engineering and royalty services. What kind of economic modernization are we talking about if engineering and installation of new equipment are now on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u177	Thank you! I'm answering as honestly as you asked. We have already established 15 working groups on each section in the Committee and have engaged in the development and development of those provisions, which will be considered on second reading, by more than 100 professionals and by the public, and by scientists, industrialists, entrepreneurs, those who have merit in the economy, tax regulation and those groups have already been established. Therefore, if you wish to work and assist in this work, rather than take political steps and political statements, as Chairman of the Committee of Industry and Enterprise, I am confident that we can bring this document before the hall will be adopted and will enter into force on 1 January next year, that is, everything depends at this stage.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u178	Finish up. Yes, thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Have a seat, please. The two committees benefited from article 13, sorry, 30 of the Rules, which states that if a bill was sent to other committees for consideration, they are willing to express their opinion, they have the right to speak first in the discussion. So there's a request from two committees: the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and the Committee on Fuel and Energy. He's got a three-minute speech, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. The opinion of the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship She'll be followed by Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u179	Respected Adam Ivanovich, a respected presence, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship considered a draft draft of the Tax Code yesterday at the meeting. And decided to send this version of the Tax Code to be finalized. Because we clearly believe that the country has indeed come into motion, but now most importantly, to determine the right direction of this movement, not to make a mistake. Because I am confident that both fiscal and regulatory reform will not be effective without the total elimination of corruption. The country needs, first and foremost, an understandable, clear, anti-corruption project. Because today corruption is depreciating reforms, and I am afraid it can very much distort the consequences of the adoption of such system documents. And without the removal of the most ominous organs of the corruption centres in our country, which unfortunately cannot be reformed, but need to be dismantled, to talk about tax reform — unpredictably. We have therefore requested the Cabinet of Ministers to eliminate the Tax Police as a system that cannot be reformed today. In Ukraine, business pays a huge corrupt tax. And it completely distorts the country's tax base. The Tax Code is an economic constitution, and one false step at a time will lead to the loss of millions of small enterprises, the loss of medium-sized businesses and the growth of an army of unemployed people. The authorities should understand these points and not refer to the concept document as a campaign. We are discussing another draft of the Tax Code. Once again, we hope that this will meet the requirements of the domestic economy. Unfortunately, however, since those good times, it has been a decline in rates of several per cent, which unfortunately does not feel the real sector of the economy, other conclusions to make difficult. It is right to choose for the real sector, small enterprises, medium-sized enterprises, and not for fiscal bodies, as this Tax Code significantly enhances the capacity of reviewers. Again, the tax authorities were empowered to carry out unplanned exit and control checks, and entrepreneurs had no real rights to appeal against the actions of the tax authorities. We remember Lenin's first decrees when they were aimed at destroying small businesses, and Lenin then made it clear: “This is because of the self-employed population, which means the independent population”. We therefore understand that the Tax Code destroys small businesses as an independent population. We therefore believe that a number of rules in this Tax Code need to be categorically amended and our committee, I conclude, is ready to take.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u180	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u181	The Committee is ready to participate actively in all possible working groups. We are ready to transfer all the experience that has been developed with business and all the demands of business that need to be taken into account in second reading. But without a radical change in the approach to administration, because there is actually a further shift in the functions of the tax inspector with the function of the tax police, and again we see such norms as these.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u182	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u183	Everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u184	Thank you, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u185	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u186	From the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko has the floor. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u187	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security last week carefully considered the bill. They made the right decision. They're sent to both the profile committee and the government. And what worries us first of all is the question that these observations should be taken into account, because we have already adopted similar comments at the beginning of the draft legislation for the previous session. Unfortunately, almost none of the provisions have been included in the draft new document that we are currently considering. And there are a lot of things in this document that will let you take the money once, and then just for the brothers there will be no one. I'm only going to bring in a couple of theses, according to our comments. One thesis is out of the ordinary. As for the socio-economic recovery of the population's risk in the observation zones. This is once again a non-traditional beginning, because we don't complain about excessive tax burden, here we ask you to reverse tax collection. Our committee, in particular, wants to take into account in the Tax Code the collection of socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in the area of observation. Let me remind you that this is provided for by the Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. This law has been passed especially by our Supreme Council of our calling. If the Tax Code project is designed to reduce the number of congregations, why have we introduced this congregation with more than 300 votes last year, eliminating its parliament from the development of the area of observation, which is more than 3 million citizens who are already experiencing positive results. And how we're going to develop nuclear energy without having a mechanism to implement this law, when in an energy strategy, we're putting the development of nuclear energy first. The amount of funds foreseen, particularly for the measures outlined in the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2010 amounts to 100 million dollars. As of 24.09.2010, NAEC “Energot” counted the cost of 31 million in the State Budget special fund. Therefore, we propose to supplement the Tax Code with a separate section on the “Collection for socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in the area of observation”. Then it's just thesis. Inequity in the tax period of the increase in fuel stocks in warehouses when preparation for winter is under way. When we have concentration in the months when we pay for fuel, and we don't actually produce energy. Next. The draft code proposes to tax VAT on amounts of budgetary allocations and grants. The target didn't get it. What an interest to chase money back and forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u188	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u189	With respect to environmental taxes. Dear colleagues, we suggest that it be washed up in time because the one-time adoption of the standards proposed in the draft document will increase the cost of electricity by 5 percent once in January 2011. And this is inflation, this is pressure on our citizens. Regarding the cost of repairs and the increase in the original cost of essentials. Dear colleagues, we have 80 percent of our energy. Once again, we increase the tax base, we reduce the cost of repairs on this obsolete equipment. The draft Tax Code also sets a standard according to which the useful use of depreciation is determined by the date of their entry into force. Once again, 80 percent of us have exhausted our resources under such basic energy conditions. And under these conditions, less than 10 percent of the major assets will be depreciated. And so on. So I would ask both the profile committee, and accordingly the government, all the proposals we've made, very carefully, to address these proposals, because this is the basic area of the national economy, so that we don't cause any trouble here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u190	Yes, the honourable colleagues, the report and the report, and the presentations from the committees that wanted to do so, we heard. Now we're going to sign up for the faction talk. Yes, and please, from the National Deputies. The recording took place. Let's do it this way. We've got five factions on the list, so we're going to listen to factions for the rest of our lives. After a break, we will continue our discussions and make decisions. I apologize in advance to the judges. But we can't stop the question. Let them wait. We'll be there after 16 hours, after we finish this question. Therefore, those present forgive us, but we are in this situation. After 16 hours, somewhere, well, on 16.20-16. 30 judges will be considered. Please, Shustik, faction of the Timoshenko Block. He's giving it to who? Teryochin. Please, Sergey Teryohin. Behind him, Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! It's very difficult in three minutes to discuss this, not the Tax Code, but the project, as it was called, the tax constitution of the junta. But let's try it. First of all, it's not a code. There is no codification as such. 192 times this code defines tax bases on the Cabinet of Ministers. More than 50 times on DPA and Minfin. So there is no direct action. There are other special laws that have not entered into this code on taxation issues. Let's say there's still a problem under the State Tax Law. Because there's benefits, you know? There's all kinds of pay and stuff. There's no new quality in what we call, let's say, the approximation of accounting and taxation. With what standards? National? What is it that's out of date? Why Not International? Why, who approves them? Minfin? This is forbidden by the Constitution. The VAT is terrible, too. Well, first of all, nothing improves in administration, the corruption element remains in reparation. But look what they wrote in the release. So let's say he's getting fired. A circumcision operation because there is no added value, of course. Or dissolving the powder after cremation for a fee. It's been released. And let's say the forced vaccination operation is now taxed on the added cost. In fact, the destruction of the SDS is a simplified system. Small businesses and legal entities are banned. They cannot exist in the positions proposed. Article 7.3 completely cancels the bank’s secret. Look closely, they hid it there with parcels for another article and another article. The rules of conflict of interest are being annulled. I'm glad the Minister of Finance told us. Normal prices are actually for all contracts and for all. That's what it says at the disposal. A bunch of big business hotels. So let's say the Roelts won't be included in gross costs, on the one hand, and on the other hand, they'll leave the norm that if you have an offshore parent company, all dividends from Ukraine are tax-free. A tax on luxury, let's say. It's been introduced since 2014, but it's very interesting how. Let's say that on Jet, on a private plane, 20 copies per year from the summer mass, a kilogram, that is 8 million euros is going to cost this base plane, and it's going to pay less than 5,000 dollars per year. Dear friends, you know, for the sake of absurdity, let us accept this codex today in general before the local elections and show the degree of a bright mind of our authority. And better yet, I remind you that Russia has been adopting this code for 2.5 years per chapter, Kazakhstan has been taking four years on its heads. Let's either take it now and not worry about anyone else's head or refer to this document properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u192	Thank you. Please, Peter Melnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u193	Peter Melnik, faction of the Party of Regions, Kiev Honorary colleagues, according to a discussion of the draft Code of Taxation, were the most controversial in terms of tax and congregation administration, special tax regimes, taxes on corporate income. It should be noted that in almost every section of the Tax Code, there are many interesting and constructive innovations that need to be supported. Yes, the more thorough and consistent fundamental principles of the construction of the Ukrainian tax system, excluded from the list of fiscally insignificant taxes, the detailed rights and obligations of both taxpayers and tax authorities, the regulated order of application of international tax avoidance conventions, the increased financial and administrative responsibility for tax evasion and so forth. All innovations, according to experts, are well founded and are aimed at strengthening the integrity of the tax and legal framework of Ukraine, the elimination of contradictions and the collations of effective tax legislation. In addition, to resolve the problematic issues that arise today in applying a simplified tax system, perhaps only through the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code. This bill provides a three-category distribution of business outlets: this is the only tax for natural persons, this is the main criterion for the classification of turnover of 300,000 dollars per year; then small business, turnover of up to 3 million dollars per year; and finally medium and large business. In doing so, the draft Tax Code, designed to further stimulate small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine, provides support for new enterprises with tax breaks for income tax. The income tax for such a category of enterprises will be 0 percent over 5 years. It is understandable that this is causing certain losses and risks to the state budget, but the state is deliberately protecting this very protection with the aim of supporting the development of business in Ukraine and the further development of the middle class. Now, a few words about those orange rabbits we had today. That's what I'm telling you as rector of the university, which for a year and a year and a half has not been released by the tax police with rubber rods and Cheriomukha to the perimeter under the command of Katerinczuk Mikli Dmitrovic. This did not prevent such illegal acts from taking place without a tax code for these tax officials, the tax authorities, Kyreyev. I want to emphasize to you that in six months we've been adopting the Tax Code, although it's true that the Ministry of Finance doesn't sleep and work with the minister of finance for six months, and it's dealing with this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u194	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u195	I don't know. I'll continue to tell you how the tax police worked under Catherinechuk for the second time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u196	Yes, please, the Tuck is passing on to Leap Kseniya Mikhailna. Please. Get ready, Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u197	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, we are certainly discussing the Tax Code from the government, because we understand that today it is contradicting through the Supreme Council. This Tax Code, the last version, was made very clear by experts. First. Who will benefit from the adoption of this Tax Code, which groups of people? The first, and the main, population group that wins from this Tax Code is fiscal bureaucracy. They kept all their positions, they also got all their rights, and they actually saved the opportunity to push on business. There was a tax arrest, a checkup that the President's Administration had been so critical of, I heard it myself. They're gone for no reason, no messages. I mean, actually, these tax raids. On such matters as tax verification, however, is not a tax test. The second category that wins is actually very narrow, they own big businesses. They will, in fact, unhindered, without tax, put their dividends on Cypriot offshores. Experts estimate that between 10 billion and 4 billion dollars will not be able to reach the budget of Ukraine, and they will be sitting on the Cypriot offshores of these owners. Who loses this codex? The first is the medium-sized business. You know, during the parliamentary hearings they spoke here and said: “We did not ask what we are offered in this Tax Code. We asked for improvements in tax administration. We asked for the system to be uncontainable. You're going to cut the stakes, but we're not going to win, says the middle business, because they're going to draw the figure that we have to pay in the budget anyway. And the tax rate is not important, the taxpayer will decide the amount, not the rate. Small business loses completely and completely. Small business actually gets the complete destruction of the simplified system. The name remains: the content changes completely. A small business for six months wrote in electronic form letters, references, rallies, participation in all possible and impossible working groups in government and in the Supreme Council Committee. He offered his options for a simplified tax system. And don't let the Minister of Finance tell you that they took into account public hearings. They didn't. No offer from a million small business units is taken into account. And finally, we've got a list of some directions here that need to be completed by the codex for the second reading. I have a series of suggestions for these directions. I don't think these directions today reflect all the necessary details of the Tax Code. I insist that this decree cannot be adopted in general. I emphasize, not the code, but this decree. The code itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u198	Finish
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u199	Because this decision is not just one line to support and not to support. And that's the definition of the direction of the finishing. Then, if there's no such directions, all of our proposals and yours, the honourable majority, will just throw out and say, they don't match the basic directions. So I insist that these directions should be refined. If you can accept them, just as a basis. For example, one direction here is to save. It's supposed to be, and they're not here. And I'm proposing to keep a simplified tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u200	Thank you. Simonenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! I especially address our constituents. What was our goal as Communists in taking an active part in the discussion of this project? First of all, the Tax Code is the introduction of principles of justice in the responsibility of the state, first of all, the responsibility of business to implement social programs, social policies. And today, there is every reason to talk about what is not fully understood, to put it mildly, all of this is done in this draft of the Tax Code. The progressive scale of income tax, what we proposed from 13 to 20 percent, is unfortunately not implemented. Although in the developed countries of the world and Europe, and not only in Europe, from zero to 40 percent, or more, this progressive scale of income tax. What is it? Some have a minimum wage, while others have millions of incomes. So not one percentage scale should be used, 17 or 15 percent, but differentiated to really share with society what they get from hard exploitation. Second, a tax on luxury. How much will we talk about the fact that some planes, helicopters, yachts, expensive cars, and other assets that have been obtained illegally, while others think about how to feed their families? This tax must be imposed in the same way as that of airplanes and transportation. What? Today, you buy and fly airplanes, and why pay this tax on January 1, 14, rather than bring it in and not introduce it from January 1, 2011? The transport congregation was recorded in gasoline, but it was forgotten that by law we have a category of private citizens freeing themselves like veterans of war and labor, disabled people, and participants in the elimination of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident. But this needs to be corrected, not so, today we write one thing down and then we change the other legislation, and on this category we stick a yoke on our necks. Like what has to do with supporting our disadvantaged peasants today. We suggested, let's let them use the value added tax by 1 January 2017. No, they do pull again to pin the yoke on the villager’s neck for a short time. We offered to eliminate the value added tax, which is also a fundamental issue in the Tax Code in general. But there are some questions that need to be asked. Dear colleagues! I'm now addressing you, everyone will answer today when I put it in front of you, will this Tax Code work when we have 50 percent of the economy in the shadows? It won't work. Will it work when we have corruption? It won't work. Whether this Tax Code will work in conditions where the International Monetary Fund today has virtually squandered the economy of Ukraine and met its requirements. Is that going to work if we're talking about credit policy in banks today 20 to 25 percent. How we support our own domestic manufacturer. I propose three or five years ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u202	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u203	Last offer. It's like protecting our own manufacturer from the World Trade Organization, and we need to protect our economic space. Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask you again, let's look at it in the window, cars abroad, clothes abroad, shoes abroad, milk from Polish powder, sausage from Argentine, Brazilian and other beef, pork and what's Ukrainian then. If we don't protect our own manufacturer through our own economic space, the Tax Code will never work, because it's the Tax Code for the Dead Economy. Never will a dead economy fill its own government budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u204	Thank you. From the "Block of Lithuania" faction, Grivkowski has the word. To Zarubinski, please. We agreed that before the break, we'll hear the factions, I'll continue the session for a few minutes, and after the break, we'll be speaking to the national MPs. The last faction, not the last one in the sense, but the representative of the faction that was written down, is final. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u205	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for the correction. Dear colleagues, very many questions about the Tax Code, more specifically to this project, extremely many questions, extremely many questionable points. So just so we're not talking about everything, I'm going to say two things to get there. The first refers to the real estate tax. I can see that everyone has calmed down, that is, there seems to be a general agreement or no agreement, but no one says that anymore. The question is, Since literally not so long ago, several new countries in Europe, including Estonia, have given up the real estate tax at all. You know why, because they've calculated that the cost of administration of this tax is greater than the profit of the state before. I mean, I don't think there's any statistics on this, but God be with him. I see no one raises that question. Then I have another question. Can you please tell me where the real estate is? So I want to know that the voters, so that we all know, are coming in here: the greenhouses, the farm premises, the garages, the animal sheds? This is not a residential area? If a tax is to be taxed, the housing area should be laid. Because the minister of finance said correctly, we have to increase the number of people who refer to the middle class by this tax code. Who's in the middle class? And whoever can do the heat in these conditions, the one holding the animal, the pet animal, the one who survives when the state does not allow it to be done to others. So once again, I'd like to say, clearly, Mr. Secretary? Well, Kzarykov, these are serious things! We need to be clear about the real estate tax. To the residential area? So it's going to have to be on the residential area, so everyone knows -- I have to do it again because you've bothered me -- that no heat, no garage, no household facilities, even if they're compatible with buildings and all that, they shouldn't be taxed on real estate, and only then can the middle class build. And the second moment is very important. The very idea that a man who goes to the market once a week, Grandpa, who is in Moscow, has to pay less, of course, because he doesn't have the pressure, this Moscow, on the roads, on the infrastructure of roads like the one who charges every day. Logic is the right idea, but, Your Honor, I ask you to calculate how much more people are going to contribute for gasoline and how this is correlated and correlated with the fact that we take them away, people, from the annual or two-year transport congregation. I suggest you count these things so they're at least more or less adequate, not a few times more than people pay today, because what's the middle class then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-10-07-m0.u206	Yes, dear colleagues, we have completed the factions, after the break we will continue to discuss the matter, make decisions, and then consider issues related to the appointment and release of judges. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Break till 4:00.
