ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:01:01]] Registered with cards in the 398 National Deputies Sessional Hall The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Honorable National Deputies, pursuant to article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, an hour of questions to the Government is held on Friday, from 10 to 11 a.m. At the Conciliation Council, a proposal was made for the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine to listen to information on the efficiency of the use of budget funds by their administrators in 2008-2009 and in the first quarter of 2010. Accordingly, the factions reported in writing on the questions they would like to be answered by Fedor Aleksiowicz Jaroshenko, the finance minister. So there's this proposal, the honourable colleagues, first to give us the opportunity to present the information, then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I hear everything, we'll do it now. Just a minute. Let me do my job. There was a break all day yesterday. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, calmly, calmly, calmly, please, calm down! Ladies and gentlemen, I will now announce the order for consideration of the matter, and then I will be able to make a statement. Does it work? [[B in m in s a l in]] There won't be a break. I'll put it to the vote. Dear colleagues, I'm going to show you what the MPs went into the session room yesterday, which everyone saw, with specific names. And please don't yell. The time for shouting is over for all. There's no need to ruin Parliament. All of it. So let's think of it as a procedure for dealing with the issue, and then we'll be able to make a statement on behalf of the two factions. We agreed not to yell. I want you to calm down again. Honorary colleagues are thus invited to first listen to information from the minister of finance. How much time do you need for information? One minute, I want to agree on a procedure to deal with the issue, and then there will be a statement. How much is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u2	30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u3	How much?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u4	30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u5	Well, let's see, 30 minutes of information, 30 minutes of answers to questions. No objections? None. Now, dear colleagues, two factions. Well, I told you everything would be okay, that you were worried? Two factions, the BUT faction, Fatherland, and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", require a 30-minute recess to hold a consultation and make a statement. John Kirilenko will make a statement, right? Please, Ivan Grigorovich. Ivan Grigorovich, please. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put you to a vote, because yesterday we agreed to a break, everything. Don't scream. And then I'm going to ask you for a few minutes to let you know about the outcome of yesterday's negotiations and show you the results of what the national MPs came to work yesterday. I think yesterday we passed the point of non-return, and we all need to turn around and get in place, and restore the dialogue. Don't yell, don't shout. The headmaster's microphone, don't yell. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the proposal is to announce a recess. I'm going to put this proposal to the vote because yesterday, calmly, because yesterday. Forget about the Rules, and first of all, talk about the Rules in order to announce a recess. No, then the right to speak. You will be silent as the first deputy head of the Regulatory Committee. Shut up! You shut up! I'll do it. I'll do it. Take your seats. Please, who's to announce a 30-minute recess for consultations? [[10:05:50]] For-51 Please make a statement if it is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u6	Statement by the Fräulein-Batakishtina Yulia Block. The faction authorized me to make the following statement. Yesterday, in this room, brutally, brutally with unprecedented cynicism, the remains of Ukrainian democracy were killed, and today, her funerals. No matter what you say, no matter what the argument may be, but such an inhuman face of hatred, of insurmountable malice, of thirst is not merely to be mutilated, but to be killed in this sacred building has not yet been. They've all seen these historical walls. More recently, today’s authorities, and yesterday’s opposition blocked the rostrum for months, demanding a NATO referendum, namely an increase in pensions, wages, and social benefits. Did someone draw you, arrest you, beat you, cripple you or kill you? For a moment, imagine that you and your leader would have done what you did with ours today. What would be your reaction? Yesterday, you clearly and clearly demonstrated that you had one argument left to fight the dissension and the way to destroy, clean, wipe out your colleagues and opponents from the face of the earth. And yesterday's events clearly demonstrated that. There is no more month left in the walls of Parliament for dialogue, understanding and constructive cooperation, parliamentaryism has been destroyed. Because the next stage of political repression against the opposition, its leader quickly poured into open accounting with opposition using brutal force. You've found yourself underlying with the moral torture you've caused Julia Timoshenko, and so you've moved on to the brutally brutal and demoralizing beating of your fellow oppositionists. [[Now, a man in a major operation has started an operation, whether he lives or not.]] Do you really feel the moral satisfaction that the 70-year-old national deputy Yuri Gnatkovic is in a very difficult state today? Mikhailo Wolintz, five disabled deputies, was hospitalized, our colleagues, and the operation was very difficult. By yesterday's actions, you demonstrated your colleagues, full of powerlessness with other means of work. You are not able to easily and easily accept a terrible budget, a terrible pension, housing and labour reform, so you want the laws and the Constitution no longer in force in Ukraine. You want to introduce new rules so that the country lives by the laws of the street: who is stronger, who is right. But, in fact, those who want to bring the country back to a time of lawlessness, the minority. And the fact that even your deputies, who still have a piece of conscience, were horrified by yesterday's events in the session room, and that's a powerful confirmation. Trust loans run out. Promises do not come true, but society feels more and more burdened every day. We're proposing concrete social protection measures for all people, but you're trying to sow fear and violence in society. We're not gonna make it. Our political power will not stop its struggle to protect the economic, social, political rights of people and democracy. You have failed to intimidate, break Yulia Timoshenko, and you will not be able to frighten and break the members of the faction "Timoshenko, the Motherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u7	Finish up. It's all you, isn't it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I beg of you. [[Applause]] I beg you, take it easy, give it a minute away. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, one minute from the faction. Please. And I have a request: turn off the candles, there's not enough fire here in the session room. Please, I beg of you, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm begging you, I'm begging you, I'm begging you, I'm begging you, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream, please. If you want, I'm asking you, dear colleagues, to get information, once they come out of factions, they'll come out of their attitude, and I'll give you complete information. If there's a wish. Dear colleagues, please, I beg you, I beg you, I beg you, I beg you, I beg you, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Mikola Martinenko, then from each faction per minute, after each point, we'll go through it with you now. We need to find out the truth, that's what everyone's interested in, no one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't yell, don't shout! It's a sign of weakness, it doesn't scream. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, don't yell, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u8	On December 16, 2010, an extraordinary event took place in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: representatives of the Party of the Regions brutally beat the opposition national MPs. They suffered severe bodily harm, shed blood. Such actions cannot be justified in any way. Sadly, powerful methods of power have already become a trend. Not long ago, during the ratification of the Kharkiv treaties in the session hall, a member of our faction was demonstrated to have been beaten. The NU-NS faction requires the immediate condemnation of the beating of members of the people by the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council, and the prosecution of those responsible for criminal responsibility. Particularly guilty of crimes can be called the following names: Zurko, Salamatin, Ksarov, Shenzev, Zločevski, Volkov. It should also be the responsibility of the leaders of the State: Yanukovič, Azarov, Lithuania. In connection with the commission of a crime, we demand the resignation of the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania. The Ukrainian leadership should give both the Ukrainian people and the international community the assurance that they are infamous.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u10	The actions of the authorities against parliamentarians will have and will continue in criminal acts against the Ukrainian people. December 16 is a special day for Ukraine, a day of choice: either today’s authorities recognize the world’s illegality and immorality of violent parliamentary disputes, or it can be forgotten about its relationship with the civilized world. Europe will be cut off from Ukrainian rulers by a border with an invisible barbed wire. They will have to deal only with countries that have forgotten European standards of democracy and the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u11	Please, which one of the factions is going to come out? Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, let's hear each other out, if you don't want to listen to each other on the Conciliation Council, let's hear each other out here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u13	I see a senseless approach to our colleagues in the hall. Therefore, I would like to refer to journalists who are present here and to the public. [[th m in s a l i]] This is the face of democracy, you can take this face off with a big plan, and then these people say we have to make a deal and hear each other. If what is happening today is called democracy, and the people who represent it are called Democrats, I don't want that kind of democracy. Now, dear colleagues, the question is with you. It must have been some time ago that we brought checkers here and dumped Parliament, poisoning dozens of our colleagues here in the hall. This must have been yesterday we took the chains and carried the rods into the hall, and with these chains and rods we went out for dialogue. It's probably what we've been trying to force, including us, to make decisions that we've never been prepared to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u14	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u15	And in this situation, these people say that they represent the culture, conscience and honour of the nation. I'll never agree to that. And if we are ready for dialogue, let us sit without noise, without shouting, without any admonition to talk to each other. Everything else is just homage, and it can't do anything good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u16	Please, anyone else from the faction will act? Please, Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I was in the hall yesterday, too, and I want to say that clearly planned action, and the planned action will be taken by whom. Well, as you think, journalists are being released at night to the canal under the protection of the people's deputies on the balcony. And I know they turned on the TV channel. I saw on the phone yesterday, they brought in the circuits and the circuits, and hopefully the speaker will show it, too, and we know who did it. Question three. You know, if you wanted to protect your leader, you would. They stood like rats on the side yesterday and waited for them to provoke everything you provoked from the BUT faction. In a large way, it's a big greenhouse effect on your large greenhouse gases. And all you've done is be held accountable, and you have to be held accountable both in the prosecution's office and with an honest conscience. And on the contrary, you said yesterday in the hall that you were forced to come in here and make provocations. And I agree with Ephraim here, when you really almost burned down Parliament's hall when you were really laying your hands out here yesterday, and not even men's, I'm sorry, you were waving scissors -- it shouldn't come off your hands. [[checkers]] And we're really saying from the faction that we're not going to let the process go down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u18	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u19	Which I heard yesterday, the leader ordered: by no means let Parliament work up to 31 numbers, thus breaking the budgeting process, thus disrupting all the constructive work that is in Parliament. So once again, let the right-wing think about who's doing it, who's directing it. And the agony of the losers, I think it will pass from January 1st this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u20	Thank you. Please, the factions of the National Party, who will act? None. Dear National Deputies! Let me inform you. Dear colleagues! Let me inform you of what arrangements were made at the Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday. Why, I think, is there a need to pay particular attention. It seems to me that the point of non-refoulement has already been passed, and it is clear that as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I have full responsibility for the people who suffered yesterday. Because we have this situation: the bigger a fraction, the more autonomy it has in making decisions. The organizers of these actions were not the only ones affected. I'm surprised by the statement, frankly, the head of the Mikoli Martinenko faction, who didn't make it to the Conciliation Council all day long. Today he makes an appropriate statement. I understand that it is difficult for him to reconcile the authority of the committee head with the faction's heads. I think it's important to help someone focus on one position. The other one. What was suggested yesterday? I don't read the preamble to that address, really, about 11. 13 years. The requirements of this nature: “Stop immediately the political repression and lift any restrictions from Yulia Timoshenko on the movement of Ukraine, including the precautionary action – the non-departure subscription”. Since the faction’s discussions with the factions revealed that we could not make the right decision, they also suggested that I support the idea, and I asked for the support of all factions to create an immediate commission of inquiry. to determine the circumstances and causes of criminal cases involving individuals and to enforce the legality of their investigation. The factions agreed to support, with up to 400 votes coming out. This would obviously be a position that would conflict to some extent, I would say so, and the lines of law enforcement. Well, let's be honest. They said we should consult. In addition, there were other suggestions that today, on Friday when the minister of finance was informed, the head of the Treasury would be present and answered questions about the Kyoto Protocol’s funds. I said, “No problem. Let us invite him here to all the MPs, to give the whole country an answer and to confirm it.” Agreed. We agreed to hold another 15 - hour meeting. At 15 o'clock, I got from the mouth of the faction representatives that they don't already accept these agreed positions, and they're proposing something else: to accept an application from the Attorney General to change the non-exit policy for Julia Timoshenko. I said, let's go to the session room, vote on the proposal, and we'll look at it, because we can't accept the application, we have to make a decision with the addition of the statement, we're going to convince the deputies to support it. If not, then I suggested that this application be immediately translated into a parliamentary request and sent to the Attorney General's Office. Now, if you don't mind, honourable colleagues, which for society, it doesn't matter to people whether it's a decision, or whether it's a parliamentary request, it's going to be a testimony to the response of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They gave it up. Instead, I get a reference from. in the name of the Chief of Apparatus, it is said that national deputies carry chains, locks, metal rods into the session hall. In particular, on December 16, 2010, about 19 hours a Ukrainian national deputy, Goody Eugene Dmitrovic, took several items wrapped in a bag that looked like mountings into the session hall. I'm showing you for everyone how I had to do in this situation. And why were there no respectable faction leaders who are now so eager to demonstrate? Say, what does this have to do with parliamentary activity? What's that?? I understand, I want to say again that I am responsible for those people who have suffered in this fight. I came here when I got a call and I looked at what they had turned into a session hall and what had happened to the deputies. Let's move on. What does this have to do with parliamentary activity? I understand all that. What does this have to do with parliamentary activity? Castles and calls to fire because MPs, and that's not a secret, go with guns to the session room. We need to find out on what grounds all these weapons have been obtained. Once again, Parliament is thus destroyed definitively. And I understand our mutual responsibility, not our appeals, but our mutual responsibility. Suggestions, endeavors, pleas for understanding, have no response at all. Come, tonight, dear colleagues, see what we've turned into a session hall. In the worst case, a bad host has it. See what's left in the session room. How can you set up tours here to teach young children democracy and love for their Father? I have to ask the apparatus all the time, go alone and clean up in the session room when the delegations arrive. After you've taken these peppers, everything that's been scattered, and not just the papers, they've taken the necessary materials for the MP's work. And the reason is, all the tricks that have happened here are coming out of your hands. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being destroyed as the last refuge of democracy. Well, there won't be a Supreme Council, there won't be a country. I think there's a whole different agenda in all of this. This war, which continues after the presidential campaign, it's not over, it's taking a new turn, and we need to stop and regret, and it's too bad the deputies left the session room. Let's make a decision, let's conduct, if you want, the MPs. Let's stay in this corner. Well, after all, you and I have to understand that we are responsible for the country. So I'm asking and I'm proposing, let's let all the emotions settle. After all, we're going to draw the right conclusions with you because they don't adorn anyone, they don't adorn the country, they don't adorn the country what's been happening and what's happening. Dear National Deputies! Now for the announcement. According to the minutes of the meeting of the Communist Party of Ukraine on 16 December 2010 and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Grač Leonid Ivanovic, has been expelled from the Communist MP. Now I propose to move on to the issue, and at the same time I ask the leaders of the factions “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”, “BUT – Fatherland”, the National Party, the Party of Regions, the faction of Communists, to gather for the meeting, and Adam Ivanovich will hold meetings. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u21	Yes, dear colleagues, we are moving on to the “Year of Questions to the Government”, indeed, it will be of a kind and as we agreed that we will listen for 30 minutes to the information of the Minister of Finance on how to test the efficiency of using the budget and its arrangers in 2008, 2009 and the first quarter of 2010. Then within 30 minutes, he will answer the questions. Please, Feder Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u22	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Written questions of this nature were raised. First question. “Please explain the audit system, was it complete or focused on individual cases? How much can such an audit be trusted? Is he independent? Does an audit company have an appropriate reputation and experience in qualifications?" On the first question. Please explain whether the audit system was either complete or focused on individual cases. In March of this year, the current government adopted from the predecessors an empty execution, a fully balanced system of government finances. The debt burden was such that the state was unable to properly perform even its basic functions. Based on the extent of the abuses and signs of money laundering abroad, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to involve international highly qualified experts to conduct an impartial and transparent audit of the use of budget funds by the government of Ukraine during 2008-2009 fiscal years and the first quarter of 2010. This is Cabinet Order No. 334 of May 5, this year. The results of this audit will be presented to you today. I want to point out right away that I am not a representative of the law enforcement agencies, and in principle I will not give legal qualifications to the actions of the former government. But as Minister of Finance, I am well aware of budgetary legislation and I would like to remind everyone that article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides that exclusively the State Budget Act of Ukraine defines any expenditure of the State on social and cultural needs and the size and purpose of the use of these expenses. Therefore, when funds provided for in the State Budget for a particular purpose are not used for purpose or are not used effectively, they are violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. Whether this is a crime or not, the investigation and the court must determine whether it is a crime. The audit system was focused on individual directions. In view of the limited time involved, the check was to be completed. After consultations, six separate cases were selected for a thorough examination: that is, that the use of 27 vehicles by the Ministry of Emergency Situations; verification of the purchase of sugar by the State’s material reserve; verification of the use of funds derived from the sale of quotas and carbon emissions in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol; verification of the purchase of thousands of transport equipment by the Ministry of Health and Verification for the acquisition of pharmaceutical products; and research on land registration programs. The next question was. “How much can such an audit be trusted?” Taking into account the powers given in accordance with the regulation, the Ministry of Finance and the General Audit Authority signed a contract with the American company Trout Cacheris, which involved the company Akin Gump Strauss Haver & Feld of Kroll, as well as the consulting company Fest Internecen Richsel, to contribute to the verification, the preparation of an official report on the results. A specialized law firm called Trout Cacheris is selected by the auditor as having a reliable reputation and experience in dealing with significant, resonant criminal matters concerning the financial activities of the public authorities of different countries. Next question. Is he independent? The companies involved in the audit have no political or personal interests in Ukraine. They also appreciate their reputation, which will end their work for them. So I think their testing is independent enough. Next question. Does an audit company have an appropriate reputation and level of access and qualifications? The investigation conducted by Trout Cacheris is recognized worldwide as unquestionably authoritative. This firm in Washington had no commercial interests in Ukraine, no ties with Ukraine’s political, business elite, which guarantees the complete uninvolvedness of the investigation. No one can accuse American lawyers of performing in paws or oligarchs or politicians. Therefore, it is important that Trout Cacheris is fully responsible for the follow-up work done during the audit. Plato Kacheriz and Bib Traun are former prosecutors of the U.S. Department of Justice. Plato Katcheris has the highest level of admission from the U.S. government because he did legal work for state intelligence agencies. Bib Traut was the deputy independent prosecutor for the U.S. Trade Minister Ron Brown, and is now investigating corruption charges against the mayor of Washington, Adriano Fenti. So we think that there's every reason to say that they're highly qualified professionals. The second question. “According to the available information, the audit revealed significant violations. What is the extent of the loss suffered by the State?” For example, funds received by Ukraine from the sale of greenhouse gas emissions quotas under the Kyoto Protocol were illegally converted and used for other purposes. What has been done by the government to remedy the situation and to exercise confidence in Ukraine’s potential investors? Answers. What is the extent of the loss? Reported by the auditors, it is reasonable to believe that individual officials of the previous government failed to carry out their duties properly and that under financial crisis, they did not make effective use of government finances. In just six episodes, international audiences have shown abuse of 3 billion dollars. An audit found that international agreements were broken when the funds obtained from the sale of a fixed amount of greenhouse gas emissions were used in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol. Japan's companies have been bought - respectable, listen! – acquired quotas for the release of contaminated substances in Ukraine. The cost of 320 million euros received was about 3.2 billion dollars to be allocated exclusively to environmental projects in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol. Instead, former government officials and Treasury officials converted these funds into a single treasury account in violation of international legislation and budget legislation in Ukraine and used them for various losses not provided for in the Kyoto Protocol. Well, for example, today there's a lot of different ideas that we're there to raise expenses on law enforcement and all that. Let me give you an example. I think the Treasury, if they report it, will also confirm that this money has been used, first of all, I'll give you an example: the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Civil Rights and Freedoms Programme, the Society and the State against unlawful interference, the protection of public order and the conduct of research. Well, what do they have to do with the Kyoto Protocol? The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the acquisition of household equipment and the creation of a social contact centre for purchase. Capremont works and hardware acquisitions. What attitude is also incomprehensible. The Ministry of Defense of Ukraine is buying, repairing from capital repairs. Next. We're said to be making a lot of money on the D.O.S. And look where the money went: from the capital repair and acquisition of Feofania Hospital equipment. And so on. I mean, we don't know. And I think the report that you have today, you're actually going to be witnesses and see where that money was spent, because it's a process of investigating organs. The materials transferred to the D.A.'s office, and when the investigation is completed, everything will be published to you, and you will be informed on this matter. Next question. “What has been done by the government to remedy the situation and restore confidence in Ukrainian potential investors?” Now these costs, I want to tell you that they're updated, are in the accounts of the National Environmental Investment Agency. And today, this money is already being implemented according to their purposeful use. But we were forced to find these extra funds from the state budget general fund, and we need to re-establish it for special purposes, instead of targeting them to raise the social benefits that we are talking about today, which we're very little predicting. Or the repayment of accumulated debts, we should keep that money, and they should be in the treasury. And this was at a time when the state had not yet regained the trust of international institutions when we were not, in fact, cut off from sources of cheap money. And at that time, we've solved the problem and preserved the reputation of Ukraine from the devastating blow that the former government was under. Next question. “What can you say about the report of the BSOA Auditorship Company on the availability of funds from the sale of quotas under the Kyoto Protocol?” It is a great surprise and cynicism of opposition representatives who refer to the BSO’s audit report, which has shown that funds received under the Kyoto Protocol are available in the accounts. Moreover, the opposition’s arguments were widely distributed by the individual media, giving them an undeniable truth. I read only one e - mail without giving her a name. “For ordinary citizens, is it enough to note that the treasury accounts currently have an amount that would be impossible if the Kyoto money went to the left?” Dear National Deputies! Well, obviously, they must have been ashamed of it. to refer to this report anyway, because the U.D.A. report just confirmed the availability of funds on May 20th of the current year and. I'm asking you to show a slide where you can see very clearly that for over two months there has been a new power that has been restoring the resource base of the ECR, because we have practically had the ECR. Well, it's negative. And including part of the funds received under the Kyoto Protocol. But when we accepted the case from the previous government, the situation was quite different. Here's the graph that represents and places all the dots above the "and," you see, here's the information about the remainder of the funds that were in the UK not in the government's gross accounts of the State Treasury on March 11, the year the new government came. Along with the currency accounts, the sum of the state. At the State Treasury on that date, it was 1.8 billion dollars. These are all expenses, along with current tax and congregation revenues. But only the Kyoto Protocol quota money amounted to 3 billion dollars. So where are they on the ECR? Show them, please. They're probably gone because they're showing nothing. Because the execution was empty. Simply put, on March 11, this year, the State Treasury accounts had an amount that would have been impossible if the Kyoto funds had not gone wrong. Only through the hard work of the government by May 20th of this year have we been able to restore the resources of the state finances, and by May 20, 2010, the euro had already had an amount equivalent to 5.2 billion dollars in currency accounts, and this had saved Ukraine from applying sanctions by Japan and shame to the world. And that's not one of the armors of the former government. No less interesting is the procurement of medical equipment and medicines. I'll show you, buying Minochrona's health equipment for unnecessary medical equipment and transportation equipment for limited medical purposes. The equipment is delivered by only 84 percent, 77 of which have not been used and remains in stock. What are the sources of the source of the purchase money? I have already told you many times that what debts are made. Thus, the purchase was made on the basis of a loan of EUR 101 million, which was guaranteed by the government. What does that say? This is an increase in government debt during a period of crisis. Now the utility of the means of transport for target use: purchased cars, designed for consumer needs and limited medical purposes, were used in further use exclusively for advocacy purposes before the 2010 presidential election. The state is in crisis and at this time the government spends more than 100 million dollars on its own agitation, and it spends money on the purchase of medical equipment. Taking the money from sick citizens to win the election campaign has not been the case in Ukraine's political life. The car's been bought. I'll tell you, Your Honor, listen carefully, the car is simple. You couldn't just install medical equipment in the car, they don't go in there. An ambulance that can't be loaded with a patient is what the former government bought, and they say that we don't have enough money for medicine there, for people with disabilities, and so on. And this is at a time when the same officials blackmailed the Supreme Council of Ukraine, demanding billions per billion to fight the flu epidemic. The cars are the Combo Apple. Part of it was already in use, and part was incomprehensible. Next material. The report presents an assessment of the significant damage that has been caused to the state’s material reserve by the use of fraud schemes in the purchase of sugar. Is the government going to take a closer look at the situation? What measures are being taken to compensate for the loss and preservation of the assets of the State’s material reserve? The first question is, Are they going to take a closer look at the situation? Buying sugar, just think about how it could be done and how it could be counted. A high-priced, non-de facto reserve is another example of abuse. The purchase agreement was designed in such a way that private commercial structures could gain profit and use public funds, without effecting the actual supply of sugar to the state. There were 17.1 thousand tons of sugar left unattended, resulting in a budget loss of 188 million dollars. What measures are being taken to compensate for the loss and preservation of the assets of the State’s material reserve? Of course, the government took a close look at the situation. On December 8, at a government meeting, the Ministry of Finance was commissioned to provide financing for the purchase by the State Reserve of the Stock Reserve of the Stability Fund. At the same time, law enforcement agencies are investigating abuses with reserves of the state’s material reserve. As part of this investigation, representatives of the former leadership of the State Reserve have already been arrested. But I have no authority to divulge information in more detail. Next position. The audience found cases of violations in the purchase of transport equipment by the Ministry of Emergency Situations. It is also about the use of offshore companies, fictitious contracts for the sale of automobiles and government drugs at higher prices. The audience found cases of such violations: State spending on transportation for the Ministry of Emergency Situations was unearmarked. The point is that these vehicles were purchased by a British company that specializes in and registers in offshore registration. Just think: Cars are purchased at a price that is three times their real value. If the price of a car is 240 thousand, the purchase took place at the price of 799,000. What government action in this direction? So far, materials have been initiated and made available to U.S. courts, United Kingdom, and this will compensate the State for the damage it has suffered. “What are the main conclusions of the international audit of the efficiency of the use of budget funds by their administrators and how much are they for Ukraine?” The main conclusion of the previous audit is that, along with the apparent systemless spending of the past government, the funds were not monitored effectively and purposefully towards their use. On the basis of the established facts, according to international auditors invited by Ukraine’s management, individual expenditure operations of the past government have been subject to judicial review in the United States and Great Britain. By taking appropriate action in the legal plane, we intend to provide compensation for the damage suffered by the State. In addition, in doing so, today's government will certainly conduct and strengthen trust in our state as a reliable partner in international relations, which adheres to international norms and ensures that national legislation is enforced in any way, regardless of their position. Next question. “What was the need to invite foreign experts to carry out an audit of the efficiency of using the budget of their supervisor? Should it not have been limited to its own Ukrainian auditors for such inspection?" Answer: The invitation to conduct an audit of foreign experts was not dictated solely by the fact that they are truly professionals of the world level in this field who will be able to perform quality work. As a result, it has been decided that in order to ensure that our audit approach is objective, it should be included in its conduct by auditors with considerable international experience and authority that have proven to be highly qualified. And the distortions and schemes that they have discovered to conceal the purposeless use of budget resources amount to more than three billion dollars. Thus, the invitation of experts of this level is justified, from an economic point of view. We understood that the conclusions of the audit, whichever they were, would be subject to real scrutiny by experts at the criticism of our opponents. Therefore, we have no doubt about the impartiality of the audience; it would be extremely difficult and impossible to do so in the involvement of domestic experts. The quality of handling the questions we have examined has confirmed the loyalty of the decision we have made. The audience’s findings are clear and clear and are based on an appropriate evidence base. In addition, I would like to point out that domestic audiences do not have sufficient experience and authority to detect offshore equipment, and they cannot properly represent Ukraine in the courts of other states. Without this, the efficiency of the audit would be much lower. We cannot afford to spend our budget in vain, so we have invited the best audit experts and anti-corruption investigations. People who are trusted by the U.S. government to conduct an anti-corruption investigation into the head of their own capital are real professionals. Their work has also provided us with valuable experience in conducting anticorruption investigations into high - ranking corruption. And this experience will be used to warn and prevent corruption, expose and hold corrupters accountable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the cluster of questions that concerned checking the efficiency of using the budget by their administrators during 2008-2009 and early 2010 ended. Now, please, we have 30 minutes for oral questions from the national deputies. I'm going to write it down. Yes, please remind me that for a question, one minute, to answer a question, two minutes. Please, Kozub Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u24	Dear Fedor Alexiovich! When I met with the voters, especially, let's say, there in Western Ukraine, I had to work, and in the voter's mind, all of our sad leaders of the past government, like Robin Goode, who are taking something away from someone and giving something away. And it turns out that these are actual thefts that they're using to get to power, including their electoral campaign. In your report, you reported that some public procurements have been identified for advocacy and propaganda activities. How was this done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u25	Well, first of all, you know that when we, as finance minister came, so to speak, we looked at the situation of finding money in the ECR, the situation was terrible, so we immediately included our control organs, which have a great deal of experience in this issue and they immediately found these abuses that you're now saying. That's why we have enough internal control to work without prejudice. All the bodies that are active today, that is, have been engaged solely in the purpose of the use of budget money. So the control and audit office that we have today in the state, it's really capable of doing this function that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u26	Please, Kovalevska Julia. The fencers are next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u27	Dear Feder Alexiyovich, you have told many terrible facts about outright corruption and the purposeless use of budget funds. How can you describe the damage caused by the government of Timoshenko in the area of land registration? And who is personally responsible for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u28	Infringement of the land property registration procedure was indeed financed by the previous government from the funds of the Stabilisation Fund, with the aim of supporting banks, minimizing them. These costs should have been aimed at supporting banks and eliminating the financial crisis, and these costs were directed at land certificates. And now we're investigating this material. The materials are also transferred to the prosecutor’s office, followed by the following actions. These are the results that will be carried out, and they will be passed on upon completion of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u29	Please, Plonikov. Demchisin is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u30	Dear Feder Alexiyovich, I have questions about the episodes of the State Committee from the material reserve and the purchase of sugar. Are there specific culprits, with names, with episodes, there, and with everything else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u31	Thank you. That, you know, is the facts. And the questions you're asking are a question for the investigating authorities. As a result, investigations are now under way, and investigations are under way. And when the investigation is completed, all this information will be published.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u32	Demchisten, please. Hell of a way to get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! Dear Fedor Alexiovich! Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I also want to thank the experts who did this audit and our Ministry of Finance. As soon as the issue of the efficiency of the use of funds by the government of Tymoshenko is raised, the opposition cries out for persecution from all possible media. What kind of persecution might this be? Feder Alexiyovich talked about it today, and I also want to emphasize it. They've created corruption schemes, they've cleared the budget, and that's your money, people. And they appeal unto you to protect them. And we heard about it this morning, too. The whole world knows the professionalism of international auditing, which has worked and exposed these mass thefts by the government of Timoshenko. Of course, not to be responsible for the crimes committed will be the case, and not all of them will be. Why, for example, on my hops, a female civil servant was sentenced to five.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u34	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u35	Thank you. Five years in prison for 270 dollars, and here billions of dollars are stolen through the same offshores that Feder Alexiyovich was talking about today. And we have to put order in Ukraine and we have to put thieves in jail. And, Fedor Alexiyovich, I'd like to see you again. Are there mechanisms for the recovery of these stolen funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u36	Of course there is. And the materials have already been transferred to the investigating authorities, the law enforcement agencies of Britain, the United States, and the judicial authorities, where the process is now under way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u37	Please, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u38	Dear Fedor Alekseevich, of course, you are not a lawyer, but as a financier you should simply inform everyone living in that country that his money that could have been retired, paid for the growth of the economy has been developed and allocated. That's the first one. Billions of bracelets went to use as a second, or maybe it was the first election fund for presidential candidates. It has to be said that the taxpayers' money has been involved in politics. Second moment. These were not isolated cases. The entire budget was subject to manual management. You did not, for some reason, address the four billion issues that have also been addressed by Parliament to deal with the effects of submergment in Western Ukraine. You didn't say anything about that. This Parliament voted 500.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u39	Finish up, but this is the last sequel. Please bet in a minute. Please, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u40	The Parliament voted 500 million on the security bridges. Where are the 500 million guards who were supposed to come to the bridges? Please answer all these questions as detailed as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u41	Today I am reporting to you on the international audit. When I report all the abuses, I'll report on the issues you're talking about. And what you're saying is that's what I said a week later when I came to work as Minister of Finance. I immediately went to the press and said that I had never seen such a fool in public finances in my life. Here. That is why I have been reporting to Parliament today and reporting to you on an international audit of the impartial where he has told and showed that, as far as non-earmarked money has been used. I said that money was not for social benefits but for the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the establishment of contact centres and so on. That's what I said. And I keep talking, and I kept talking about when he was representing the budget. And I say when they introduced the code. I'll tell you more that, and I keep saying that the government that led it, let's say, the previous government, the budgets, you don't talk about it, either, were adopted in one day. You have only complied with all the rules and procedures for the adoption of the State budget in the Januković Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u42	Nascia, please. Behind him is the Wheel.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u43	I would still like to go back to the thefts that were exposed to international auditing in the area of the State Reserve. 4.8 billion stolen money. In fact, the country lost its mobreserve. Today, we have no funds, no materials. The names of all the leaders of the State Reserve have been known since 2004 - 2001, when this vachanal began there. Questions to you. Will these materials have the support of the Cabinet of Ministers in law enforcement agencies to ensure that those responsible are held accountable? The question is not just to the government of Timoshenko, but it is the question of all those who presided, all those who stole. The sums are out there today. This is almost a third of the State budget stolen over the last six years. Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. I have already told you in my information that a number of officials have been arrested and follow-up actions are under way. And still this material reserve process, I've told you that I've already been given the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers. And the Cabinet of Ministers is dealing exclusively with these issues with extreme urgency, both abuse and restoration of the state reserve. Therefore, follow-up, follow-up, and additional audits will be carried out. And really, here's what you're saying, right now, in the program and the government and the Ministry of Finance, and the audit office, and the international audit. It's very long-term, but it's such a constant process that can balance properly the material reserve and the management, and the experts. And the material reserve will perform its function as it should.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u45	Yury's wheel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u46	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm asking you to pass the word to my colleague and to my friend Sulkovski Pavl Gnatovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u47	Thank you. Thank you very much, Fedor Alexiyovich, for informing Parliament of the Cabinet of Ministers today. Too bad those populists went. Clearly, they did not want to listen to the situation and so forth. Ukraine should not stand. Ukraine must develop, move forward, and so forth. And that's why the people of Ukraine are ashamed of the power that five years of orange, short-lived politics, especially led by Julia Timoshenko, were so ingrained by Ukraine. And they put it in such a difficult situation, first of all, financially. Please tell me, Fedor Alexiovich. You have to work today, meet with foreign structures and so on. As the results of the government’s financial policy in 2009 have been reflected in the international image.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u48	Negative. There were completely all closed credit lines, and no high-level financial institution had actually credited the positions that needed to be done. For example, the International Monetary Fund has suspended the operation of the agreement that has been concluded. The World Bank has suspended certain programs that should have been financed. Ukraine’s international financial rating has fallen, there has been no fall below. So the situation that was created with government finances has had a very negative impact on investors who would really have to make serious investments in order for Ukraine and business to develop as needed and as is done in all civilized countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u49	Alexander Lazko. The next one is Glazonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u50	Oleg Lazko, non-fractional, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Feder Alexiovich! I think after a while, your successor will be standing on this stand and talking about the abuse of your government. Because we can hardly believe that today's government officials are more honest than they were before: these are non-tender Euro procedures, etc. I mean, I think that this report you're presenting right now, there, it's more of a political report, and I think as a finance minister, you wouldn't want to do politics. And we'd be doing economics, raising the standard of living of people, as you promised. And finally, the final question. Fedor Alexiyovich, look me in the eye.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u51	I can hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u52	Please tell me, how do you feel in the rostrum yesterday with a lot of blood, so that you can stand here and do politics? Thank you for asking. I hope the answer's for you. I hope she'll be honest.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u53	I always answer truthfully, that's all. And I want to tell you that I'm not doing politics right now -- I'm doing it, I'm telling you what the state of government finances are. For the record, not just out there, someone was talking, and I'm telling you, as finance minister, what's the state of government finances. You talked, you said. Listen to me. I heard you. And you said this is where the money is to be given. And now I'm going to tell you where the money from the previous government went: not on social pay, but on the Ministry of Defense, on the maintenance of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, on the maintenance of others there, on Phoefania, there, and so on. And let the forerunner report, we're doing an international audit -- it's not Jaroshenko doing it, and that's what the world organization does. I already told you this is an organization. These are the leaders in the audit. And how many years I've worked, it's been an honor for me to obey the law of Ukraine or the law that I live in. And our task with you is for all Ukrainian citizens to obey the law, the Constitution and not violate it, and there is no distraction of state funds and abuses. It's important to us that we have a Constitution, and we have to do it. I gave you an example of 95 articles in the Constitution. Let me give you another example. I'll tell you how I feel. You write it down for yourself, watch it, and see it for yourself. During all the years of our state’s independence, budgets were usually sent to the Public Prosecutor’s Office to hear about the budget that had been heard in Parliament, in this sessional room. And there were large investigations. Only with Januković's arrival did the 2003 report not go to the prosecutor's office, he was.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u54	Thank you. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u55	They were carried out solely by law. I am sure that my predecessor, who will speak, will be proud of the activities of our government and will follow the example of how they should work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u56	Thank you. Feder Alexiyovich, you're correct, but understand, colleague Láška. He is also the first deputy head of the budget committee to feel guilty about the waste of government funds, and he is, of course, concerned. There'll be a line at the end. Please, Glazunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u57	We all remember the ferret that was associated with the flu epidemic last December. Please tell me, was there a government violation in the purchase of drugs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u58	Yes, indeed, investigations are under way, and you will also witness material that will be completed in the process of investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u59	Olinik, please, Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u60	Feder Alexiyovich, I am absolutely convinced that we were right when we appointed an international audit, because the political power that practically led the previous government was discredited by national control bodies. And in this respect, we see how panicful they were to fear your report today. I'd like to ask you a question like that. Are the conclusions that have been drawn by the international audit with our national control bodies, to which I refer the Audit Office and the Audit Chamber? Is there a difference? Does this meet the requirements of current legislation regarding the method of determining the damage, the thefts that have been committed?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u61	Yes, it really does, but we need our control organs to make them very sufficient, these arguments, we needed to know what were the international trades. The poet is now going to take into account the international audit of the conclusions that our audit authority has made, they will be extremely powerful and evidenceable and reasoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u62	The King's Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u63	Well, I think after the report, everyone and the TV crew, and the entire population, convinced themselves that they had blocked the rostrum for one purpose in order to hide the results of the audit, and that information had not become public. So there are three questions. One who, according to both our faction and previous journalistic investigations at the time of the epidemic, the so-called avian influenza and swine flu, offered to purchase Tamiflu at the price of the manufacturer in the area of Euro 6. And how do we know that they bought almost 21 euros. I mean, is there any damage to these operations? Second question. Where did the money go for the bank's recapitalisation, including Rodovida? Because, for example, I'm a regular birthday card, and that's how my salary is stored, and I can't take more than 100 bracelets off in this bank so far. So how much money did they steal from the recapitalization? Well, third. We heard the schematics, and we realized that the past Government was not working on a pocket-tapping scheme, when they overpriced, but there was information that they were selling from Gosserve.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u64	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u65	The sale of material values from Gosserve at our data level was 1-2 per cent of the start-up price. Is this evidence supported?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. On the first question. Indeed, I have already told and confirmed what is being done. Now the law enforcement agencies are working, and the international audit is working, and the follow-up is going to be done, and this procedure will be completed, and we'll give you this information. It's about Christmas Eve, where the money went to the recapitalization. I'll tell you very briefly, yes, the money was allocated. They went into the bank. Next. There's a lot of articles that they've been divorcing, and there's a bank manager who used to work there, and he's now under arrest and giving shows. The audit office worked there, worked materials. The material is transferred to the law enforcement authorities. An investigation is under way. It'll be over. We'll talk too. On reserve. And I also told you that there are other tests going on right now, and that's where the big job starts. I've shown you one example that today is in the International Audit Report and there's an evidentiary, reasoned base. The rest of the cases are also being tested, and all of these are being investigated.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u67	Sergei Gordienko. Lukyanov is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u68	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I think that all citizens of Ukraine today need to understand why they are so fiercely fighting for power in our country. Because power -- we've seen a very vivid example -- is the source of uncontrolled access to material, financial resources, access to the enrichment of individual families, clans, and during the period of power, we see what wealth we have. It's very interesting what you were saying and showing slides. They have been shown here for 20 years. But don't let him stand by and say anything bad about a government that. in which you enter today, do you think, the political will in the present Ukrainian authorities will be sufficient to bring this to trial and bring the guilty to justice just to take once and for all the time the desire to do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u69	I think the slides haven't shown in 20 years because just recently, the cartoons started showing just ten years ago, that's the first question. I'm not showing you slides for what I want to show you. We gave you a report on paper carriers, and six volumes were added to it. That's why. And now we're giving these slides not just to you, but to the citizens of Ukraine, what are the trends, what are the scales. Because people don't read, they don't report to Ukrainian citizens. Thus, it is meant to be, indeed, a citizen of our Ukraine to see that we have an impartial attitude toward events that are so misrepresented today. And the steps taken by the government today, the government has taken a decision and it's clear that I have, so to speak, a function as a minister of finance to do, really, the situations that are in state finances today. And we're going to report and we're showing, publicly, that an international audit has already been made, that the case has been referred to the courts of the United States and Great Britain, we've brought together international auditors who are able to win these cases in these courts and pay back the damage done to the state of Ukraine. Besides, you know, there's an inside job going on. I didn't tell you, I just brought in one figure that according to the materials of the audit office and Peter Petrovich Andrew, he's already given such information that he's caused more than 50 billion losses, but the materials are all processed, they're transferred to the law enforcement agencies, they're being investigated all of these materials, and you're all going to be witnesses. Gradually, we will also provide this information for you. And she won't hide, and we'll report it to you and give it to you on paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u70	Vladislav Lukyanov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u71	Dear Fedor Aleksiowiovich, listening to your report and carefully studying this multi-page document, the report of international auditors on the use of state funds, I understood why yesterday this, I can't use another word as a gang, came with metal chains, came with fractures, I don't know what democracy to defend, or what freedom of speech, or who they wanted to shut their mouths and not let them see the crimes that were created by the past regime. But what I'd like to say is that here of the 30 cases investigated by the C.R.I.A., only 5 of the known citizens have been brought to the attention of the C.I.A. But we can see that even from these documents we see that there have been many crimes in the Ministry of Health. Why are the workers who are still working not brought to criminal responsibility? In addition, we see.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u72	Thank you. Please complete the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u73	The violations were also in the area of financial use, when the government currency of the coin was almost doubled and slightly reduced to 8 bracelets, set its level. There were also many gas violations when we entered into a corrupt criminal contract for gas supplies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u74	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u75	Thank you for asking. The first question is regarding the Ministry of Health. I've already told you that if the materials are transferred, there are investigations, materials. The investigation is ongoing. So the investigation will end, everything will be published. The officers will be called to account. With regard to gas and other matters, you realize that you are asking the right question. And we're going to build a model that's going to be consistently all of these things will be affected, the subject will be special attention, and we're going to report them, the course of their investigation, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u76	Verni Dubov is referring the right to a question to Melnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u77	To the miller Peter Volodymyrovich, please give us your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u78	Melnik Petr Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear Feder Alexiyovich, I thank you for the information you provided in the international audit. But I would like to know the funds that were taken out of the budget account and counted illegally into the 16 billion pension fund. In fact, the central authority was living at the expense of local budgets, and other irregularities, to put it mildly. But this is an example when they took 7 million to the National University of Tax Services, which were made and the procedures were meant to be designed to build housing, and these costs were not actually listed by the previous authorities. People were running out of housing, who would be responsible for making the team's efforts, wanted to build housing, and the authorities wouldn't let him do it. Who personally, I want to ask, will be responsible?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u80	Answer. It's whoever took it. And in order to prove this guilt, you need to take appropriate steps, as you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u81	Dry Jaroslav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u82	Feder Alexiyovich, my question is probably the last, the deadline is over, and I want to ask my colleague Oleg Nadosh. Would it not have been possible for the government of Tymoshenko alone, without commercial agents, without corruption, including in the session room, to have such huge funds stolen? Is it established which people, including some of the Ukrainian national MPs, have a bearing on these anti-national armors, for example, the one who today has all Kiev glued with his portraits with the mysterious title "Let All Be Happy to You!"? And the second question, probably this intermediate information, is it continuing to study all the abuses in the financial sphere? And the third question. That's how they're parasitic today, because this money is the "good aunt" of the Kyoto Protocol to the pensioners. After all, did this money go to the Pension Fund? Did they go only in the directions you called us about? Two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u83	Let's ask you one last question. So I've already told you where the money went and where the materials are now, we've identified the misuse of the purposeless use of the funds, because the State Budget Act is supposed to focus entirely on other measures. Thus, the material is transferred to the law enforcement authorities and is being investigated. The following will prove who, how much, where and so on. And you'll be told. These are investigative materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u84	Right. There was a terrible technical error, and Sulkowski was written down, but somehow he was bypassed. Please ask Sulkovsky a question and a lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u85	Thank you. Paul Sulkovsky faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. First of all, I would like to thank you as Minister of Finance, Fedor Alexiyovich, for your information. The information was provided in a meaningful way. Questions were answered specifically, and you would like to thank you very much. And I would like to say that today, in the next year, Ukraine finally heard why 20 years of independence many governments were working and the people of Ukraine are living not better each year, but the other way around. In five years of "orange politics" I still have to check and audit a good "presidential compass" led by Yushchenko, for which he began to hand out Ukrainian heroes to the left-to-right, even to unknown people of Ukraine. That's why I think President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine rightly requires that the shortest term, order, discipline in Ukraine. And I think the D.A. has to do it at an accelerated rate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u86	Answer me. Huh?Oh, my God! That was the advice. Thank you for your advice. But it turns out that nothing technical happened, you were handed over the word, and then your last name disappeared, so don't blame the chairman. Feder Alexiyovich, thank you for your answers to the questions of the National MPs, for your information on a socially significant event, regarding the audit of the use of funds. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u87	Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u88	I also thank the National Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u89	The replica. Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u90	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. Feder Alexiyovich, you never answered my question: How do you feel in the rostrum that was covered with blood yesterday? But given your facial expression, you feel good. And I'm sorry that the Minister of Finance, instead of dealing with the problems of economic growth in the state, is involved in politics. And when I said that your successors would report on your corruption, I know what I'm saying, the media recently reported. 200 million were recalculated as Prime Minister Azarov’s son. Why is this not the subject of law enforcement investigation? 400 million for First Vice-Prime Minister Clovis. Why aren't you investigating this? Two hundred million were listed as the son of the Donkey Governor’s Twin. Why aren't you investigating this? Why do we always have such an attitude that the authorities respond when they lose power? Why is responsibility not brought to the fore when in authority? I do not justify the previous government, but today’s government is not much more honest. And if you're telling me that he stole 20 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you can see on the face of what he was saying, that he was glad he wasn't here yesterday. Yeah, let's move on to the MP's questions. People's MPs have been asked: Group of National Deputies (Stajka, Grigorovich, Kendzior) to the President of Ukraine on the attempt to destroy the foundation of the Tenth Church. I'm voting on support for the request. [[11:28:33]] For-9 Not supported. Valery Bondik to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the gross violation of the constitutional guarantees of the Ukrainian National Deputy and the failure to execute a court decision. Andrija Paruba to the First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the organization of the work of the potassium fertilizer plant in the city of Kaluchi in the region of Johno-Frankow in the Ukrainian Ministry of Prompolitics. Andria Parubia to First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Economic Development and Trade on the lack of action to implement a full set of work to eliminate the exceptional environmental situation in Kalucha, Kropivnik village and Sivka Kalu district. Valeria Baranova to Kabmin’s satisfactory state of implementation of the State Youth Housing Program 2002 - 2012. Vasila Petěkovka to the Prime Minister for the inclusion of Mukachev city in the list of objects for the organisation of sports and recreational bases in the Euro-2012 event. Vladimir Bondarenko to the Prime Minister for the sharp deterioration of the energy networks of Kyivoblanergo in 2010, a regular shut-off from electricity consumers of the villages of Buzov and Gurovščina, the Kyevo-Svetošin region, and a disregard for the company's leadership for the needs of citizens. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister for hiding in response to a request from the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Andrey Klavov, for information on the amount of money spent by the Government to carry out an audit of the activities of the previous government by legal companies with no audience, while pensions and salaries in Ukraine are not increasing, and prices for gas and products are rising. Eugene Dobrjak to the Prime Minister for the increase in the expenditure of the General Fund in the drafting of the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2011 for compensation for lost property and for expenses incurred in connection with the move to a new residence for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Catherine Vasuk to the Prime Minister on the urgent need to repair roads in the areas of the Wallin region. That's true. Mikoli Rudchenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State Budget for the construction of a new solid household waste range in the city of Korstoschev of the Zitomir region. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister to finance the completion of the construction of a district hospital in a town-type village called Chopperwich Zitomir district. Alexander Crnvolenko to the Prime Minister, head of the Kiev State Department on the need for funding in 2011 from the State budget for the construction of the second line of the Kurenov-Red Army subway line in Kiev towards the Teremka residential area and the construction of the Sub-Vygur line of the metropolis in Kiev towards the Trieste residential area. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister, head of the Kiev State Department on the need for funding in 2011 from the State Building of the second thread of the main sewage collector in Kiev. Alexander Shepeleva to the Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Regional Development for the Urgent Use of Measures to Prevent Warmage Accidents in Kiev. Paul Sulkovski to the Prime Minister, Henprocuror, on violations by the State authorities of land resources at the site of the "Principal Provisions" requirements of the Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to Article 20 of the Land Rental Act" and on urgent steps to regulate the procedure for the State registration of land leases. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the attempt to destroy the foundation of the Tenth Church. [[Stoika, Grigorovich, Kendziora]] Vasil Petovka to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, Head of the NAC Government Naftogaz for the completion of construction of underground and inter-urban gas pipelines with a high degree of construction readiness in the Zakarpatsk region. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister, the Commissioner of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Head of the Federation of Trades, the Head of the Pension Fund, the Henprocurorate on the use of urgent measures of reaction to abolish the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine and the Pension Fund from 11 March 2009 on the conduct of a pension census, issued by a special letter, which led to the State’s actual abduction of working pensioners from 200 to 1000 dollars per month. Edouard Prutnik to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, State Road Service, addressed the Dublin Rural Council of the region of Nižin region of Chernigiv, on the need for action for planning for 2011 and the ongoing repair of the road of Nizhin - Dubolugivuk. Edward Prutnik to the Minister of Health, head of the Poltava District Administration, on the need to take urgent measures to speed up the creation and opening of a hemodialysis office in Mirgorod to ensure proper access to medical care for patients. Elina Shishkina to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprosecutor for the facts of Jacob Strogan's torture by members of the police department of the Kyiv district of Kharkiv. Eugene Kzarkov to Minister of Interior, Henprocuror of Ukraine, for the investigation of Ukrainian citizen Vijacheslav Graciotov. Irina Heratschenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprosecutor, for the inadmissibility of the use of xenophobic expression by co-workers. Eugene Zarkov to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General for the criminal attack on the Odessa District Committee of the Ukrainian Company into the public reception of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Catherine Vaschuk to the minister of health about the urgent need to increase funding for the medical facilities of Mariupol Donetské region for the treatment of patients with chronic renal insufficiency. Marina Perestenko to the Minister of Health concerning the business structure of Alpha-Crime located in the 6th Simferopol Hospital. Mikli Kravchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for ignoring the decision of Interior Minister Anatolia Mogilov, head of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Donetsk region of Mikola Kupjanski. Oleg Tishchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Minister of Health, Henprocurorate for the examination of illegal facts, according to the complainant, of the actions of the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Dnipropetrovsk region, as set out in the address of the citizen of Constantine Bilzan and the improper treatment of him by the administration of the City Hospital No. 10 in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Alexander Schepeleva to the minister of health for taking precautions to prevent an outbreak of infectious diseases in the Zakarpatsk region. Peter Zybenk to the Ministry of Health, the Attorney General's Office, to verify the closure of Irpine's specialized sanatorium, the Ministry of Health and the rightfulness of the decision to transfer to another owner a portion secured by a sanatorium of the land area. Romana Zvarič to Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprocuror for the detention of members of the law enforcement agencies of journalist Mustafa Nayem. Sergei Vlasenka to the Head of State Treasury of Ukraine on the use of the funds received by Ukraine in 2009 - 2010 under the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, ratified by Ukraine on February 4, 2004. Sergey Pavlenko to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to ensure that the requirements of effective legislation are met when a tender is made for the production and supply of registration plates for means of transport. Sergey Shevchuk to the first Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine, Ukraine’s chief national health doctor, for the control of the circulation in Ukraine of food products with banned preservatives. Yuri Treguchev to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the raiding of Nadir Ahundov's private property. Jury Karmazin to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Head of Nutzbank, Henprocuror for the use of response measures for the annulment of the Ukrainian National Bank Order of 6 August 2009 "On Measures to Secure Loans" in the provision of information on borrowers who are in a difficult financial position. Valery Bondik and Alexia Plotnickov to the Supreme Council of Justice, BSB, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Ministry of Justice, Attorney-General's Office, Government Commissioner for Anti-Corruption Policy, State Agency for Land Resources, Kyiv District Government, High Town District Government on the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of members of the "Gladin Sadowic Society" on the fact that land is occupied in the territory of the Chullensk and Lebedovian Silrad of the Vishgorod region of Kiev and the use of appropriate measures. Anatolia Yagoferov to Henprocuror of Ukraine regarding the inaction of the Luhansk City Head on the abuse of the tender and the reconstruction of schools in Lugansk. Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Central Electoral Commission and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on ensuring the implementation of the requirements of article 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine and on the launch of the electoral process aimed at ensuring the holding of the next election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 27 March 2011. Arsenija Yatzenyuk to the Attorney General on the possibility of closing a criminal case against Julia Timoshenko. Vassila Hari to the Attorney General for bringing an illegal decision to the judge of the Dniprovsky District Court of Kiev by Ludmila Antipova for the prosecution of the First Professional Organization of the Executive Directorate of the Social Insurance Fund, on the basis of falsified documents, against the temporary loss of employment to the Federation of Trades. Gregory Omelchenka to Henprocuror to give a legal assessment of the actions of the former deputy head of the Boripil district government, the head of the Senkovsky Village Council of the Kyiv region of Kyiv, Valentina Honcharenko, the judges of the Borispila District Court, John Bondarenko, and the private notary of Tetjana Savitsky, who have signs of official crimes. Gregory Omelchenka to Henprocuror to give a legal assessment of the actions of the former deputy head of the Bohrdievsky District Administration and his assistant, Edward Yegorov, who have the characteristics of the crime provided for in article 191 of the Criminal Code, section 3. Eugene Goodyak to the Attorney General for the destruction of the road to general use of Radomisl - village Potyyyyuka by the Society with limited responsibility for Pathek Philippe, for causing material damage to the state, and for drawing the guilty to justice. Zoya Shishkina to Henprokuror regarding the appeal of residents of the Basilic district of Zaporozhye for the work of gambling establishments in the area. Mikoli Komara to Henprocuror in relation to the improper investigation by the Prosecutor’s Office of the Odessa area of the case concerning the legality of the actions of officials of the South Customs in the case of the goods. Roman Zabzaluk to Henprocuror for not giving an answer by the prosecutor of the Mikolai district to a parliamentary appeal regarding the distribution of cards to unknown persons in the city of Mikolayev openly provocative. Roman Zabzaluk to Henprocuror regarding the failure to respond by the prosecutor of the Mikolai district to a parliamentary appeal regarding possible illegal actions by officials of the Office to combat the criminality of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Mikolai region. Sergio Vlasenka to Henprocuror with regard to the review of the activities of officials of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. Henprocuror's Sergey Grinewecko to the Henprocurorate on the violation of effective legislation by the leadership and members of the Odessa District Electoral Commission No.05223 of the one-maned majority electoral district No.38 of Malinov. Mikoli Petruk and Eugene Dobrjak to Henprocuror on the unlawful actions of civil citizen Rostislav Savichuk and the failure of the police officers of the Glossiev district office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev to respond to citizens’ appeals. Vladimir Yavorowski to the head of the Kiev City Administration on the catastrophic situation in the village of Podgorka, namely the inability to provide drinking water to the residents because of the well, well, and well. All parliamentary inquiries. Now, honourable colleagues, we turn to the question: The report of the commission of inquiry on the use of budgetary resources by the Heads of the State Committee on the State Material Reserve. The chairman of the commission is Oliynik Volodymir Mikolaiovich. Where's the reporter? () [[B in m in s a l in]] Please come to the rostrum. Ten minutes, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u92	Dear colleagues. As a result of the work of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the conditions for the use of budgetary resources by the Heads of State Committee, a number of systemic violations have been established in the organization of the State Committee’s activities from the State Material Reserve, which is created by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as its special state stock of material values. First of all, it should be noted that according to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regulation of 08.10.97 on the approval of the procedure for the formation, placement and conduct of transactions with the material values of the State reserve, the report on the stocks of material values of the State reserve and their movement is submitted by the State Reserve to the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukraine of Mineconomy and Minfin each year. [[Number 1129]] The data provided by the National Court of Auditors in response to a parliamentary appeal indicates that in recent years the state’s wealth reserve, which according to the law is a special state reserve of material values, has been transformed into a tool to solve the problems of today’s internal food market. Yes, in 2008 the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine adopted the decree of 12.02. In 08 C.E., Derecomreserve was obliged to purchase meat and meat products of foreign origin from the state stockpiling budget, to increase material values, and to implement them. [[has a graph]] During 2008, the inefficient management of material assets reduced the state’s reserves by more than 1 billion dollars. In 2009, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in violation of the Ukrainian State Reserve Act, did not take steps to properly function as one of the main pillars of national security. During the first half of 2009, Derzkomrezer practically failed to place material values in the government reserve, but according to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, he sold the remains of material values. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in 2008-2009 created conditions for the realisation of the material values of the State's material reserve at prices much lower than the starting prices. Much of the material value of the material reserve in accordance with paragraph 21 The order was implemented at liquidation prices that did not exceed one percent of the starting value of the goods. [[Just think about it.]] And this list of products included: oil, rice, wheat, and other foods. During 2008-2010, the Security Service carried out 25 inspections of the State Committee from the State Material Reserve, which revealed the facts of the commission of crimes and attempts to commit crimes provided for in articles 191, 364, 366, 353 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. As a result of these tests, 17 criminal cases have been investigated by the Ukrainian Security Service, transferred to other law enforcement agencies under article 97 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. The State Committee's financial and economic activity from the State Reserve, held in the second half of 2010, revealed the fact that the purchase of the State reserve's goods and materials at low prices had resulted in significant economic losses to the State for over 2 billion dollars. To date, the Ukrainian Security Service is conducting investigations and is taking appropriate operational measures to address the 8 violations identified by the HeadCRO. Yes, according to the fact of possession of a total of 530 million coins by officials of TV “Grandmother’s Recipes” and TT company “Rondo LTD” on 15 April 2010, the Ukrainian Security Service’s main investigators have violated criminal case number 548 on the grounds of the commission of a crime envisaged in part five of article 191 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. I'll tell you, it's been decimated that our report is calling and confirming international auditing, because when the same Germes Trade company is listed in front of it, 243 million dollars to buy foreign-origin sugar, and it shows domestic origin and it's not put in stock, and in this respect, the unreturned cost of damage to the government is only evidence of the corrupt schemes that the government has and has systematically done so. Sometimes they talk about curatorship. There was, you know, such a double accounting: on the one hand, legalized curators in the relevant ministries, and there were actual curators in the person of the first vice-premier who actually managed these processes. And in this respect, it is necessary for the investigating authorities to give a proper assessment. In fact, the abuse of the service position by the employees of the State Reserve and the Resources violated criminal cases when, at no cost, just the gas from our national reserve was sold for more than 800 million dollars. 29 illegal use and alienation have been established, usually with a shortage of material values from companies responsible for storing more than 140 million dollars. Also discovered are 34 companies — responsible custodians who have been bankrupted and eliminated. But there is no material resource at all — that is, it disappeared along with all businesses. During the 2008-2010 years, 17 criminal cases have been committed against 7 people. The HeadCRA has established the irreparable loss of government stocks of 2.4 billion dollars, at present over 7 billion dollars. They're stolen. But we cannot say that because there is a presumption of innocence and it is necessary for the court to give an appropriate assessment. Of the total number of savings companies out of 547, 76 percent is not enough, i.e. 76 percent of businesses that have stolen material from one or the other. [[Just think about it!]] In addition, according to the Head of State, the State has incurred a loss of 4.2 billion dollars due to the inefficient management of the financial and material resources of the state reserve. It's so soft, as it should be written by the CRU. But the court, I think, will set up a crime scene there, and that's what we have to do to have a trial perspective there. At the same time, according to the Attorney General's Office in 2008-2010, there were no convictions and other court decisions in criminal matters concerning officials of the State Reserve. This is the most important one, today, unfortunately, there are no criminal ones. Criminal cases, but there are no convictions yet, who's running, and who's playing cats and mice with our law enforcement agencies here in Ukraine, we need to take control. At present, the authorities of the State Executive Service of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine are in the process of carrying out implementing documents on the collection of funds in favour of the State Treasury for more than 900 million dollars. During 2010, however, only 197,000 dollars were collected by the State Executive Service, accounting for 0.02 percent of the total amount. Today, the State Reserve needs to take concrete steps to resuscitate the state reserve system, to restore its positive image, to strengthen the role of the State's State Economic Security Reserve, to work on these priorities: the first is to develop a new concept of reform and improve the functioning of the state reserve system; the second, to develop a plan of action for decommissioning the state reserve system from crisis; the third, to exceed. the transfer of the material values of the State reserve with the aim of focusing them on the enterprises and organizations of the State Reserve system; the fourth, the improvement of the quality of the annual mandatory inventory of the material values of the State and the mobilisation reserve; and the fifth, is the optimization of the State Reserve structure, including the elimination of non-profit and constantly profitable state-owned enterprises. Thank you for your attention. We're proposing a draft decree for the Supreme Council to take, "for," as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u93	Thank you, thank you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, you have the Bill of Order number 7479, which proposes to accept the Commission's report to the public and to send it to the Attorney General, the Security Service and at the same time, to hear the report of the relevant authorities on the investigation and to stop the commission accordingly. I am voting on the adoption of Decree 7479 on the report of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on terms of use of budgetary resources by the Heads of the State Committee on the State Material Reserve. Please vote. [[11:53:14]] For 271 It's been decided. We turn to the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on temporary prohibition of the acquisition of Peni from Ukrainian citizens for late payment of housing and utilities. [[concerning the operation of this Law]] We have two bills here: registration number 7013 is the Cabinet of Ministers and 7013-1 is the National Deputy Carmazin. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? I'm putting this motion to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:53:57]] For 261 The decision is supported. I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of ŽKH Lasikov Sergey Andriyovich. Please have two minutes. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u94	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The proposed bill proposes to amend article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of Reunion from Ukrainian Citizens of Peni for Untimely Payment for Housing and Utilities, predicting that the Act will be terminated on 1 January 2011, with the determination that the collection and collection of pennies for untimely payment for residential and utility services will be effected at the amount of debt that may arise as of 1 January 2011. If you don't mind, I'd like to give you a few digits. So today, 1 November of this year, the population debt for residential services is about 8.5 billion dollars. In doing so, housing companies owed their creditors 14 billion 200 million dollars. Business losses for today’s housing and utilities amount to 2.5 billion, including 1.5 billion dollars in heat. Today, the population accounts for the current services provided by our businesses are about 99 percent. That is, for today’s current services, the population is almost fully accounted for. The adoption of this draft law will enable residential enterprises to work with their consumers to fully account for the services they receive. Request to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u95	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin None. Please, from the committee, Deputy Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, in November 1996 the Ukrainian National Deputies 'Factions of Ukraine's Compatriots adopted the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of Retraction from Ukrainian Citizens of Peni for Untimely Payment for Housing and Utilities. There were listed circumstances that made it impossible to impose a penny on the state. First. The State’s failure to meet its obligations to pay salaries, to pay pensions, scholarships, and other financial benefits. We have two bills: a government bill that has just been reported by the deputy minister of the LHK, and there's a bill by colleague Karmazin that proposes to add to the list of circumstances that make it impossible to raise a penny, it's a banking system for introducing a moratorium by the National Bank, not paying to depositors. I want to remind you immediately that 12.05. In 2009, Decree No. 282 repealed such a moratorium and the moratorium order became invalid. The committee came up with this: today the foam will be 0.01 percent of the debt on residential services. At the same time, we see that today, the debt on wages takes place and accounts for 590 million dollars in economic and active enterprises, in general in the national economy, 1 billion 169 million dollars. In this way, the State has not fully fulfilled its obligations to payment service providers for residential services. So if we vote, if this is the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committee recommends the following: to support the bill of government. But with the government’s record or protocol commission for 2011 to resolve the issue of debt on wages and other social benefits. Otherwise, we will have to go back to this bill and continue its operation in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u97	Thank you. Yes, please, let's sign up for two for two, two against. Please, Sulkowski. Get ready, Gordy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u98	It's a good thing that the Supreme Council finally has a job, a policy outside the walls. And we can do so today by adopting laws that are essential for Ukraine and for the people of Ukraine. I fully support the committee's decision and must support it. And I urge all national deputies to vote in favour of the government. Thank you. With the committee's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u99	Please, Gordien Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u100	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that we have all the factors that led up to this. or that led us to vote in favour of the bill. In fact, they voted for the foam to be counted. Of course not. What is most often the real reason for this debt is that it is usually a government policy that we have all the bourgeois authorities. Who is most often responsible for the fact that and who forms this very policy is the state and the power. And it owed people a lot and a lot today. First. The State and authorities today are guilty of failing to comply with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. And today this is already reaching the extent of national security and defence of Ukraine. I'll give you the same examples. Who has done so, and who today has not returned the human loans that have been left in the Redemption? Who worked with deposits and froze those deposits? Who today does not enforce social laws by children of war, by the Chernobyls and others, by other categories. He doesn't pay, he makes me go to court, but Penny doesn't pay for the period he doesn't pay. Today, the person who forms the tariffs, raises the prices for gas, raises the prices once, raises the prices in the spring. Who is shaping price policies? Government! Power and all power, both local and central. If the authorities do not want to meet people, can we support such a bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u101	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u102	The faction of the Ukrainian company will not vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u103	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee's proposal was to vote on the bill as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote. And there's this proposal, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves this law, let's support the commission to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the same time, so that in the first quarter, by the end of the first quarter, we can ensure that debt is paid off. If this is not done, we will return to the matter. And I think it's going to be an optimal and responsible decision. Taking this proposal into account, I am voting on the decision of the Committee on Adoption as a basis and on the whole of the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the temporary prohibition of the withdrawal from Ukrainian citizens of Peni for the non-timely payment of housing services. [[on the operation of this law]] Registration number 7013. Please vote. [[12:02:51]] For 255 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will now rephrase my commission to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and I would like to support it. To entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine during the first quarter of 2011 to ensure the liquidation of debt on wages in enterprises and organizations irrespective of their form of ownership, and to provide relevant information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by April 1, 2011. I ask you to vote. We will form it as a document of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a decree. Please vote. [[12:03:48]] For 280 We made a decision on this point. I'm asking the apparatus to shape it as a determination. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question: this is a draft of the City Activities Regulation Act. [[on the reduction of permit procedures in construction]] And before that, we need to consult. Dear colleagues, we could work with you in 13 hours to complete the consideration of the issues and then close the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I put to the vote such an offer to work until 13 a.m. and at 13 a.m. close the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in view of the continuing work on the budget. Up to 19 MPs and factions and committees should make appropriate proposals. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[12:04:57]] For 263 Decision taken. There has been a proposal to consider the draft laws governing urban activities" under a reduced procedure. [[on the reduction of permit procedures in construction]] Please vote. [[12:05:26]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you. Deputy Minister for Regional Development and Construction Sokolov Igor Anatoliyovich, National Deputy of Ukraine Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. The Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Housing, Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy of the Forests of Igor Volodymyrovich. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u104	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill before your consideration today provides for the improvement of all stages of urban activity from urban documentation to the implementation of the completed construction of objects. It is proposed that the amendments be made to one hundred and four articles of the 26 laws and to one decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. One law is laid out in a new edition, and the Law on Planning and Construction of Areas is no longer valid. Much attention has been paid to the fundamental issue of planning areas under construction. To this end, the bill has fundamentally changed the approach to urban documentation. It has a central perspective on the construction, functional use and legislative provision of new construction and engineering and transport facilities. The law repeals the Regional Rules of Obstacle as a document that has not demonstrated its effectiveness in practice. Local construction rules are proposed to be developed when needed and at the request of local authorities. The draft law provides for the introduction of modifications to construction documentation not more than 1 time every 5 years. For the purpose of the economy of state funds and time for the development of building documents, the authors of the law have carried out analysis of existing plans that were developed in the 1970s and 80s and, given that most of the urban documentation was built in most of the locations, it is proposed to introduce the timeliness of the general plans and the procedure for updating them. In their majority, they are villages, villages, and small cities. For the first time in urban practice, it is suggested that modern GIS technologies be used, including for the creation of an information system called the City Cadastre. This is the purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u105	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u106	the creation of city cadastre services. For optimization and systematic approach, an expert is proposed to break all objects into five categories and establish a regime for each. For the first and third categories, this is an optional course of expertise. For the fourth and fifth categories of increased security, there is a mandatory expertise. In general, this law provides for a reduction in the number of arbitrary and agreeable procedures in construction, a reduction in their time spent, and a list of necessary documents. Thank you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u107	Thank you. It's all right. Yes, have a seat, please. Yuri Carmazin, please. None. Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov. May I have the committee's opinion, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u108	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on Construction, the City of Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy have been reviewed by the Cabinet of Ministers for a draft Law on the regulation of urban activities. [[on the reduction of allowable procedures]] [[by number 7418]] The main purpose of the bill is to deregulation of the city’s economic activity. Substantial decreases in the number of permits, reduced time spent, and a list of necessary documents of a permissive nature. This is achieved through, inter alia, the construction of individual activities without obtaining documentation of a permissive nature, the introduction of silent consent, “one window” and organizational unity in an appropriate area. Merge the city’s documentation with the relevant land - and - land documentation. At the same time, with the substantial simplification of urban activities, it is suggested that responsibility, personal responsibility in this area, be increased. Along with this, some comments are made before the bill. In particular, insufficiently justified is the fact that local rules are left under the conditions of the unitary state when the main part of the Zoning is derived from these rules as a separate city document. It is also appropriate to include in the bill provisions on the division of building objects by category of complexity, since the text of the bill has a constant link to such division. There is also a need to significantly strengthen the monitoring of compliance with the legal terms for the construction of new objects. Low observations are also made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. This is particularly true of the relationship of the bill with the draft city codex of Ukraine. The committee agrees with the majority of the board's comments and believes that they can be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. In view of the committee’s presentation, he proposes to adopt the draft Law on the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u109	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u110	proposes the adoption of the draft Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities as a basis. And in view of the fact that the committee has not yet passed the law of the alternative national deputy Karmazin, we will take the text of this law into account for the second reading and, if we succeed, we will merge the other document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u111	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 7418. With regard to the alternative bill of 15 of our colleague Yuri Karmazin, the committee believes that a number of reasonable suggestions should be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. And they also have to take into account those proposals that came from other institutions that are interested in having this bill in high condition, especially from the National Academy of Sciences there are a number of proposals. I'd like the committee to take them into account. And if there is no one who wants to participate in this bill. Are they desirable? Please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u112	May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Nobody's signed up? But he's entitled to 1 minute, please, Corporal Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The law for its purpose is very timely and very necessary, for we actually have very bureaucratic obstacles to construction after all procedural matters have been resolved. But his articles, the first thing I want to focus on, he regulates land legislation by 90 percent, especially the Earth Code. Therefore, it would be desirable to move it and identify it as the main committee, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. There are a number of comments and objections to the article, which conveys the full power of decision to executions because they are personally shaped by the head of execution. And that can cause a lot of problems as well. So we'd like to ask, if you hand it over to us, this bill, we'll take all the rules into account and put a good bill to the Supreme Council for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u114	Thank you. I think you have another chance to make a good offer to the profile committee that he should consider. And then on the second reading, when we accept it, you stand up for it. Because we already have. And here, however it may be, really, you're right, Gregory Mikolayovich, which is a lot to your committee. But still, a professional committee in this sphere is a committee that is tasked with doing so. So I'd like to join, actively join the committee on second reading. Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities, Vote. [[on the reduction of permit procedures in construction]] [[Registration number 7418]] [[12:15:09]] For 246 Decision taken. Accordingly, the second bill of colleague Karmazin is not being considered. But as you have heard, in a report from the committee, they will definitely look and take good suggestions into account when preparing for the second reading. Here we go to Bill 7428 on Amendments to Part One of the First Article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the One Customs Tariff. [[on the exemption from taxation of transactions from the import of macular and energy-saving equipment into customs territory]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Ask the chairman. [[12:15:56]] For 212 Supported. Please, the author, please, Pinchuk Andry. I don't yell at him. Then Vitaly Hometic from the committee, please. Vitaly Yuriovich, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u115	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy reviewed the draft Act amending part 1 of article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's Only Customs Tariff. [[on the exemption from tax on the import of machinery and energy-saving equipment into the customs territory of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 7428]] The purpose of the bill is to regulate the exemption from taxation of transactions involving the import of machinery and energy-saving equipment. Considering that the rules on exemption from VAT on imports of higher goods were supported and introduced in Chapter V of the Ukrainian Tax Code, it is necessary to amend Ukraine's Single Customs Tariff Act by adopting a separate law. This, by the way, was what we talked about when we adopted the Ukrainian Tax Code. The draft law introduces changes that specify that goods that are not produced in Ukraine and imported into the customs territory of Ukraine are exempt from the payment of duties for use in publishing and book-making activities, and provides a new edition of the list of goods that work on renewable sources of energy, energy-saving equipment and materials, measurement tools and other equipment. The committee, after considering the bill, recommends that it be accepted on the basis and given that it is more of a technical bill that goes on to continue with the Tax Code, it would be worth considering, adopting, and generally considering that, as of 1 January, this law should already work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u116	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Is that clear? Then, dear fellows, let's do it this way. We'll make decisions. The only thing I would ask, Vitaly Juryovich, the committee, is that there are some observations by the Chief Legal Authority that in preparation, if we now make a positive decision, you have made legal corrections to those normative remarks that are here to get his approval and the President, that is to say, to become law. I am voting on the adoption as a whole of bill number 7427 amending part one of article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Single Customs Tariff. [[on the exemption from the taxation of transactions of the merger of maculture and energy-saving equipment into the customs territory of Ukraine]] Please vote. [[12:19:27]] For 258. The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[about metallurgy operations]] [[Registration number 7429]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:19:55]] For 201 Supported. Please, the author of Majorod Sergey Fedotovich, 2 minutes. Prepare Homutinika from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Today, production of colour metals in Ukraine is extremely limited by raw materials, which are insufficient to meet the needs of the industry, resulting in only 35-38 per cent of production capacity. Professionals estimate that the collection of coloured scrap metal for the next 2-3 years can be reduced by almost 3 times compared to 2009. In particular, the amount of scrap metal at the beginning of this decade was more than 380,000 tons, in 2009 only 180,000 tons, and in the coming years, experts estimate that it will decrease to 100,000 tons. Moreover, there has been a negative trend in foreign trade in these goods over the past three years. In particular, copper and its products are exported, and scrap metal products are far ahead of their imports. The Tax Code has been amended and, in order to avoid the negative effects of this bill, it is proposed that for a year the bill should pause in reducing the rates of export duties and develop a restructuring programme for the industry, taking into account new tax realities. The proposed changes would create conditions for the introduction of state-of-the-art technologies, the development of production, high-tech products, the protection of the national manufacturer, streamline the production of scrap metal from the population and facilitate the legalization of such activities. And for the stenogram. I propose that the words “third and sixth” be replaced by the words “third and fourth” and, respectively, by the words “third and fourth”. replace the words “seventh, eighth and ninth” with the words “fifth, sixth and seventh”. In the light of what has been said and what has been said, I ask that the bill be supported in its first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u118	Thank you. Sit down, Sergey Fedotovich. From the Committee of Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! The draft law is designed to rationalize the use of its own raw materials, protect the national manufacturer, legalize the calculations for the adoption of scrap metal. In fact, the rapporteur and the author described what was proposed in the bill. The committee at its meeting had considered the bill and had decided to support it, to accept it as a basis and again, also taking into account what was left two weeks before the New Year, it would be worth considering today those proposals that could be changed now to avoid second reading. What exactly is this about? Today, the rate of export of a metal scrap metal is 24 percent. The author suggests that this bet be saved for another three years, in recent years. There's a note by the Ministry of Economics to this and the common agreement is to continue the rate of 24 percent, the export rate, for the following year, that is, for 2011. After that, there will be a gradual decrease of 21 percent, 18 percent and 15 percent each year. at certain points of decline. So for the transcript, I would stress that the third and fourth years of the law, i.e. this is the tenth, 2010 and 2011 -- next year, the rate is 24 percent and starting with.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u120	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u121	I'm done? So the third year, the fourth year, 24 percent, the fifth year, 21 percent, the sixth year of the law, I repeat, 18 percent and the seventh year, 15 percent. So we, if we accept these editorial clarifications that I said for the transcript, we can vote on this law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u122	Thank you. Yes, there is. Have a seat, please. Are there speakers? No, there's a desire to speak, we'll give him a chance. Please, Easy Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, for giving the opportunity to speak to the non-fractional national deputy Lyashka. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I do not think this law should be voted on in general. This is a purely lobbyist bill designed to satisfy the private interests of the narrow circle of metal scrappers. We were recently shown on television, remember, a story that shocked the whole of Ukraine when two boys, two brothers, spent 7 hours in cold water in a sewer yard, because they took the hatch off. And the children barely survived. And there are thousands and thousands of such cases in Ukraine. And that's why we need to set strict rules and control the whole process. On the other hand, we are weakening and giving the opportunity tomorrow, and the Supreme Council will be put on scrap metal. Maybe we should do it, but not to that extent. So I think that once this law is passed, the situation of protection of citizens' rights will be much worse. Therefore, it cannot be accepted as a whole. It's a lobbyist bill, and it's very sad that the Supreme Council, in conditions where millions of citizens need the attention of the state, support, protection, instead of considering bills aimed at raising the standard of living of people, to meet their first needs, to be able to earn a piece of bread, to have a job, to have a salary, to support their families, unfortunately, the Supreme Council is considering laws that give up billions of additional people who already have that money. I don't think this should be the task of the Supreme Council at the current historic moment. So I ask my colleagues to stop, to remember, finally, the people we're all sitting here with. And we remember them, or you, more precisely, only when you have to promise the golden mountains before the elections, and after the elections are the metal crumbs, the earth, everything in the world is beneath you. I firmly oppose the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u124	Thank you. The only thing I would like to point out is that what you're talking about right now is metal scrape. And here this law regulates problems and says that only specialized enterprises and organizations should do it, not anyone who sees that it's bad lying and pulling. So that's exactly what this law takes into account. So I'm proposing a profile committee and taking into account the amendments that the rapporteur and the committee head have made on the adoption of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7429]] Please vote. We're voting on the basis. [[12:28:06]] For 258. Copy that. It was an offer to accept as a law as a whole. Who's in favour of supporting this proposal, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u125	Vote against it. [[12:28:28]] For 255 Offer supported. I now consider the adoption as a whole of a law amending some of Ukraine's laws on metallurgy operations, taking into account those proposals that have been made in both the report and the committee's report. [[Registration number 7429]] Please vote. Easy, vote no. [[12:29:02]] For 260 The law is passed. A draft Law amending article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Electricity Act is under consideration. [[on changing the expiration date by adding an additional option to the power generation incentive order from alternative sources]] [[Registration number 7411]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:29:39]] For 221 Supported. The authors and the committee will report to Igor Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is designed to create preconditions for the promotion of domestic production of equipment, raw materials, materials, services to be used in Ukraine to build power plants that produce electricity from alternative sources of energy, such as solar modules. The project proposes to amend article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, according to which an additional condition is passed on for one year to apply the order in which electricity production from solar energy is stimulated. The main management considers that it will analyse the situation of solar power modules being released from electrical production. electronic technology, reduced dependence on imported raw materials and simultaneously created a powerful export potential. The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security recommends that the bill be adopted on both the basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u127	Thank you. Have a seat. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? None. Then again, dear colleagues, I bet. There's no denying that as a whole as a law? None. I am voting on the adoption of the whole Law amending article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Electricity Act. [[on changing the expiration date of an additional condition and applying the order of stimulation of electricity production from alternative sources]] [[Registration number 7411]] Vote. [[12:32:07]] For 251 The law is passed. Once again, I would like to ask the committee of profile -- this is the Committee of Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security -- to look at the proposals that were made by the General Legal Authority to ensure that everything is legally verified there. Let's go to the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Pension reform as a component of economic reform." [[7387]] I'm supposed to report Suškevitch Valeriy, no. And then we have an alternative, 7387-1, to hold parliamentary hearings on the same subject. By the authors of the Pecklusenko Bill, Alexander Mikolaiovich. There is a motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[12:33:16]] For-198 Supported. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! I and my colleague, Suhim, are proposing this bill to dispel the myths that are being dissolved today on the issue of pension reform. Our opponents believe that pension reform should only be reduced to a higher retirement age. Oh, my God! Pension reform is a basic document that will enable: the first is to make the number and quality of people who retire truly a measure. That's the first thing. The second task is to bring them into line, especially with over-retirement pensions. Pensions cannot vary tens of times in Ukraine, so we are convinced that higher pensions should be brought into line with the average pension. And, of course, the issue of the state of the Pension Fund. Today, the state of the pension fund is a matter of national threat. We have to deal with the reasons, we have to deal with the mechanisms that will enable the Pension Fund to be filled and made inefficient. It is therefore proposed that the draft regulation be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u129	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that we hold parliamentary hearings on February 16 on the theme “Standing for pension reform and ways to improve it”. The only thing we'll have in February is parliamentary hearings, well, as an exception, we'll be looking at the recovery and rest of children and young people, the decision has already been made. Let's take into account the relevance of the problem that the reporter was talking about and support in February, namely at the 16th of February, another parliamentary hearing, but it's an exception. I am voting on the adoption of Decree No.7387-1 on the holding of parliamentary hearings on the theme “Stand for the implementation of pension reform and ways to improve it”. [[author — Pecklusenko]] Please vote. [[12:35:50]] For 231 It's been decided. We move on to the section on re-examination with proposals by the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Diplomatic Service, with proposals by the President. [[4785]] Yes, from the committee, please, Chernobyl Taras Viacheslavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u130	Dear fellow members of the National Deputies, honourable Adam Ivanovich, there is now specifically under this law a request from the committee today not to make a final decision for one single reason. After the full processing of the President's amendments, there were other consultations with the President, with the President's Administration. There has been a need for changes in the Constitution to make several more amendments to the law, which are required by the President himself, who are directly related to the constitutional process. [[Back to the Constitution of 1996]] They do not go beyond 116 articles of the Rules. They apply exactly to the standards that are regulated by this law. We can do this, but we have to do it separately. In addition, the consultations that took place revealed several nuances on application, following implementation of the President’s amendment law. And the ministry, in itself, and our committee, in agreement with the arguments, and with the logic of the amendments, have found several places where there was a problem in the form of their implementation. That's why we've been working out a way to take the president's amendments into account, but they're included in the updated version. After consulting yesterday with the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, we have come to believe that in order for the procedure to be preserved, which is an international law, this is about our diplomatic service in Ukraine, we have to follow a 100% clear procedure. To that end, by strictly following the principles of the Rules, we have decided that there should be no substitute for this law and problems, so that the additional amendments that the President insists can be made, and which he can no longer resubmit adequately, should be recommended to the Supreme Council to amend this law formally for the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in order to take into account the final amendments of the President and other subjects of the legislative initiative. In fact, the comparative table is ready, but we can't bypass this procedure. Therefore, immediately after we have voted on this resolution, the committee will be ready to submit a final table of amendments to the President and to those additional points that his administration has fully agreed with the President. Therefore, the request to immediately vote on draft regulation 4785 on the drafting of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Diplomatic Service. This position is consistent with the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u131	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! You heard. The point is clear. We passed the law on June 1. At the end of June, the President returned it with veto remarks, and in October there were famous events that, as it were, brought about a decision by the Constitutional Court, introduced new political and state-making realities. And that's why we need to take this into account in the law on diplomatic service. The only way we can do that is what the committee proposes. And I would like to support the bill 4785, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Diplomatic Service, to be drafted into a Professional Committee. And in the near future, we will consider all of those proposals and proposals from both the President and the new realities that have arisen in connection with the corresponding changes to the basic law. Please support this decision. Vote. [[12:40:02]] For 231 Offer supported. A profile committee was asked to expedite the consideration of the matter so that we might consider the law for even weeks to come. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on priority directions for innovation is under consideration. [[Registration number 7333]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Vote. [[12:40:40]] For 224 Offer supported. Deputy Head of the State Committee on Science, Innovation and Informatics, Chebotarov Valentin Pavlovich, from the Committee – Lutsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is proposed by the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Priorities for the Innovation of Ukraine. This law is based on predictive and analytical research at the leading scientific institutes of the Academy of Sciences and higher education institutions in Ukraine, and makes such changes to existing legislation. First of all, the introduction of a system of strategic and medium-term priorities is proposed. The strategic priorities are reduced from 8 to 5 today. The medium-term priorities for innovation are defined as national, sectoral and regional levels. The branch and state level are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the regional level is approved by the regional councils. The duration of the strategic priorities of 10 years, the duration of the midterm priorities up to 5 years. Such a system allows the Cabinet of Ministers to quickly intervene in those activities that are specific to Ukraine and thus enable operational management. In addition, there is a need to monitor the implementation of such priorities, which also improves governance in Ukraine. In general, the adoption of this bill will allow for more rapid identification of the main activities and will, of course, give certain powers both at the regional level and at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please support the draft law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u133	Thank you. Lucki Maxim from the committee. None. Yeah, well, then I'll let you know that the committee proposes that you send for the retraining for the first reading. The main scientific and expert management is making the same proposal. Is there a need to discuss? None. Then I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill 7333, the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on priority directions for innovation. Please vote. [[12:43:33]] For 235 The law is passed. But once again I'm calling attention to the committee and the government to get involved, what it takes to prepare for the second reading is to take into account everything that's here, because here is a serious legal reference to settle them. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Red Cross Act is under consideration. [[about an additional notation mark]] [[Registration number 7310]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:44:16]] For-195 Deputy Sharov’s proposal to deal with the issue of the reduced procedure received 195 votes. Please Deputy Justice Minister Gorbunov Lydia Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u134	Honourable National Deputies, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Association of the Red Cross of Ukraine, was developed in connection with the adoption of Ukrainian laws ratifying the Additional Protocol to the Geneva Convention of 12 August 1949 concerning the adoption of an additional emblem, Protocol 3. This ratification law was passed on October 22, 2009. The purpose and purpose of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Red Cross Act is to bring Ukraine into conformity with the international legal obligations of the Ukrainian Red Cross Society Act. In connection with this ratification of the specified additional protocol. To this end, it is proposed to amend articles 2 and 8 of the Ukrainian Red Cross Act. That's right. Insert article 2 as an editorial, removing the figures and words “in 1977” relating to the Additional Protocol of 1977, Protocol 1 and Protocol 2. Because the Protocol No. 3 has also been valid for Ukraine since 2005. And add the words "Red Crystal" after the words "Red Cross and Red Crescent." Since Protocol 3 introduces an additional identification symbol for the international Red Cross and Red Crescent movement. This is the red frame in the form of a square on a white background that stands on one of its vertices, or red crystal. And in this context, also article 8, add the words “the Red Crystal. ” According to the Final Provisions, this law will take effect on the day of its publication. The bill was agreed with interested executives, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u135	Thank you. Please sit down. Yes, from the committee, we have Grigorovitch ignoring the meeting, we don't. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? None. I think it's clear and clear. Let's support the proposal of a profile committee that proposes to adopt this bill both on a basis and as a law as a whole. No objections? Then I am voting on the adoption of the Law, registration number 7310, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Red Cross Society of Ukraine. [[about an additional notation mark]] Please vote. [[12:47:47]] For 237 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pricing is under consideration. [[on improving consumer market price control]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:48:21]] For a hundred and Supported. Please, Jaroslav Suhi. Get ready for Hayman.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the bill is written on the proposal and appeal of a number of trade unions, public organizations, particularly veterans, to protect the rights of persons with disabilities who come to the Social Policy Committee and to you as deputies. People are justly asking about the ability of all branches of government, including the legislative branch, to set an elementary order, to establish effective price control in the consumer market. This issue is particularly relevant today when the economy comes out of the crisis and the speculative trends in consumer markets are activated. It is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity to 162 - 188-3, 244, five, six Codes on Administrative Offences and article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices and the Law on Protection against Unfair Competition. So we're trying to approach this problem in terms of complexity. The legislative improvement of the state price control system in the country, as proposed, will be carried out on the basis of promoting effective protection of economic competition and on the part of the public administration, as has been done in previous years, in the area of pricing. In addition, the State is given the opportunity to react quickly to the changing price situation in the social goods, jobs and services market. In doing so, we will gain market expansion, greater accessibility, and the responsibility of officials for violating price and pricing legislation will increase. This bill, if implemented, is of great social importance, because today we need to expand and activate the internal market more than ever before in order to come out of the crisis. The narrowing of the internal market robs us of our economy, deprives us of the people's investment funds we need. So I'm asking you to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u137	Yes, thank you. Please, Oleg Eisikovich Hayman of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u138	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 2 November 2010 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on pricing, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Suhim. [[on improving consumer market price control]] The project proposes a number of amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, as well as to the Ukrainian Laws on Prices and Prices, on the basic principles of State oversight in the field of economic activity and on protection against unfair competition, which aim at improving the system of State control over economic competition in the field of pricing. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers the relevant draft law of Ukraine to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on pricing issues introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Suhim to return to work on taking into account the comments and proposals made. [[Registry 7264]] The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Suhim, on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u139	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote? Okay. I am voting on the adoption on the basis of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pricing. [[on improving consumer market price control]] [[Registration number 7264]] Please vote. [[12:52:55]] For 236 The bill was adopted in the first reading. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the regulation of labour and service relations and the removal of legal gaps in legislation in the field of public secrecy]] [[Registration number 7233]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. [[12:53:33]] For-198 Supported. Here we have the author, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. He's gone. Please see the bill. The Committee of Profiles and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration have concluded that it can be accepted as a basis. Here, honourable colleagues, the right to admit citizens who have access to State secrets is being improved. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please, Samuelnka, please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! You are invited to consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to regulate labour and official relations and to address legal gaps that govern the scope of State secrecy prepared by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, members of the Committee: Grizenko, Sameilenko, Scybinecki. We propose to amend articles 22, 23, 24 of the State Secret Act and article 40 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. In order to address these changes, legal gaps in the legislation governing State secrecy are addressed. The proposed amendments are consistent with the provisions of article 26, part five, of the State Secret Act and article 40, paragraph 2, of the Code of Labour Laws under which the abolition of a worker's admission to a stay if the performance of his obligations requires that he be admitted to a stay shall subsequently be transferred to another post or post. If this is not possible, the employee may, in accordance with the law, be transferred to another job or service other than that of the Secretary of State or fired. The same effect of our bill is proposed in article 23, part three, of the State Secret Act and in the event of the refusal of a newly appointed employee to admit to State secrecy. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Committee considered the bill at its meeting on 3 November this year and the members of the Committee proposed to the Supreme Council, in the absence of comments and suggestions, to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole as a law. Well, for the transcript, the word “paragraph 1” should be replaced by the word “paragraph 2” is a technical error that needs to be corrected. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u141	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, here you have what Gritsenko will report, but also colleague Samuelenko is one of the authors of this bill and represents the Committee, including on National Security and Defence. There's a committee proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. That is why I am voting on this proposal for adoption on the basis of Bill 7233, the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on labour and service relations and removing legal gaps in legislation on matters of state secrecy. Please vote. [[12:57:23]] For 232 Adopted in the first reading. And, dear fellows, we have one last question. I continue to meet before his consideration. That is: Bills on mandatory public social insurance. [[We have three bills here.]] There is a suggestion to consider them by a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:57:56]] For 203 Supported. Please invite one of the authors: Suhi Jaroslav Mikhajlovich. Bill number 1040.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, since the first years of independence, the transformation processes in market principles, the existence of different forms of ownership, the regulation of wages through tariff agreements and thus the creation of new socio-economic preconditions for the development of society and the acute need to develop an adequate social welfare mechanism. I remind you. On December 21, 1993, the concept of social security for the population of Ukraine was adopted. The concept defined social insurance as the basis of the social security system. I quote: "The fuel must be provided to citizens in the event of unemployment, sickness, accident, and old age." The concept was fulfilled, it had to be implemented in two stages. In the first stage, the Supreme Council carried out its task. The basics of legislation on compulsory public social insurance were developed and adopted in 1998. But the second stage was partially accomplished. The fourth call provided the basic principles of four types of social insurance. Please, my time is short, my time is short. I realize that with this law I will never go to the rostrum again because it is not accepted by the brow that is against this law. But, colleagues, think about it, we have four types of social insurance. Think, if we didn't have them, how much of the budget would we have to allocate, for example, just one pension, how much for unemployment, how many accidents at production, birth and burial, temporary loss of employment. Those who have no idea how these funds function today are opposed to introducing the fifth last species. I remind you, the fifth most recent type of social health insurance, we have to implement, according to the social charter we ratified, which we will be writing about in October 2011. So I ask you to do what you want, and you have to take medical insurance. Medicine is ours without an alternative source of funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u143	Thank you. Please, we have two more bills. Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna, 1040-1 doesn't have a 1040-2 Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich, either. Please turn on the microphone light.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u144	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. Adam Ivanovich, it seems to me that the bill on mandatory public social insurance was not to be considered for the first time. Because it's a deep bill, one of those whales that's supposed to hold the social status of citizens in Ukraine. Medical provision of affordable drugs, affordable medical care, is the most important thing the state has to do. And we have in the Constitution that we have medicine for free, and in reality it's all paid. And that's what Suhi said, because there's no money in the state to implement these rules of the Constitution, you have to look for alternative sources and you don't have to come up with a bicycle, the whole world has come up with it. In addition to the State, there is non - State insurance, especially medical insurance, when employers pay for their employees and provide them with treatment. So I think, if a colleague yells, "vote, vote," we can't vote on such serious bills, we can't take it out of the box, it's got to be a serious discussion in the room, maybe even parliamentary hearings involving a wide range of specialists, a discussion of pros and cons, and then the adoption of a bill. And when you're, excuse me, on short notice in two minutes you're looking at a deep bill that depends on the proportion of millions of people who don't receive the necessary medical care today, it's just propaganda for both the work of Parliament and the propaganda of this bill in general. It's a disgrace! People today have no opportunity to buy medicine in villages and cities. They're going, God knows, in three worlds into a paradise to buy drugs, because the pharmacies are closed. They don't have the ability to get surgery when they don't pay the money, but they don't pay for anything because they retire.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u145	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u146	And you're taking instead of considering a bill that will solve the problems of millions of citizens of the country, you're not actually doing that. It's a job campaign. And I propose, Adam Ivanovich, to consider this project in full procedure, to discuss all the pros and cons, and to take seriously this very important issue for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u147	Thank you. He's lying down! I'm absolutely 100 percent supportive of each of your phrases. In fact, he deserves to be discussed at large, I'm responsible for it. But that was the will of the hall session, and they had the right to make that decision. We cannot discuss, under the reduced procedure, only bills that have more than 100 articles. These bills are smaller, so we didn't break anything. But the problem is serious enough. I'm here with you guys. Please, Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! In fact, what our colleague said is happening. This bill is really so important that it requires, and discussions on the full procedure and broader work on the bill. But why is Parliament and we today, including supporting this discussion in a summary procedure? Because we all understand very well that the options or two that have been made will not be accepted and we will send them to work out. In fact, a group in the Government is working today, which, along with the reform package, is also addressing these issues. The issues are very complex, affecting every person residing in our State. Therefore, after a short period of time, we will return to this problem. And what Oleg Lazko said, I hope he doesn't take a minute after that, and we'll look at it in full. And I hope that we will take a consolidated, correct and necessary decision on this bill for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u149	Thank you. The discussion is over, and I put to the vote bill number 1040 on mandatory public health insurance on first reading. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:05:25]] For-9 Not supported. Bill number 1040-1 is on the vote, please identify yourself. [[author Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna]] [[13:05:49]] For two. Not supported. The bill 1040-2, the bill of the Law, is a mandatory national social health insurance. [[author – Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:06:15.]] For 1 So, respectable colleagues. No, no, let's do something different. The drafts are all over, we're already finishing the session. Those who want to work with either the authors or the Cabinet of Ministers should work together. In February we begin a new session and have every reason to register and consider. Anyway, if we send him to work, it doesn't change anything, it's better to work on this bill right now, which is what we're all here about in this unanimity. Dear colleagues, we have exhausted the order of the day according to the order of work voted today. Allow the morning meeting of the Supreme Council to be closed. I remind you that we'll be working with you next plenary week, Tuesday is a start.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-17-m0.u150	"Variance," today it is declared that there will be no "Variance," sorry. Morning session, once again, closed.
