ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for registration. Please invite the deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, we'll register now, and then we'll discuss one question and we'll make a decision. Enable the “Race” system. [[16:00:14]] Cards were registered in the 305 national deputies’ session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! At the Conciliation Council, we agreed with you that the factions would advise on the proposals, express their views and at the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will consider whether tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider the issue of informing the General Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine about the assessment of the latest conflicts in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But we agreed with you in such a way that when the Supreme Council of Ukraine votes in favour of this issue, we continue to work in a state-of-the-art regime and there will be no kind of demarches, conflicts and confrontations. The factions held appropriate consultations. The faction “Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense” stated that since they demanded that this issue be considered, if it was included in the timetable, the factions would be working on the issues that were determined by the schedule for this plenary week. The “BUT” faction stated that it would not participate in the meeting until these issues were addressed. So, honourable colleagues, I propose now, I will put to the vote, to support tomorrow's Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the issue of information from the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the assessment of the latest conflicts in the Supreme Council. According to article 240 of the Rules, there are up to 20 minutes of information and 20 minutes of answers to questions. Just a minute. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to discuss the matter, the proposal will have to be further discussed. And that's how we're gonna go. It's tomorrow when we look at this question, we'll listen to the information. That's what I'm talking about. I remind you, 240 articles of the Rules of Procedure. So let me go now, I beg you, Anatoly Sergiyovich, because. Well, let's vote because then we don't have a decision. Please. I am voting on the proposal for tomorrow's Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the issue of information from the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the assessment of recent conflicts in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Information, answers to questions. If there are draft decisions that need to be made, then we'll make decisions. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[16:04:14]] For-300 So the constitutional majority voted. We have reason to appeal to the Attorney General's Office so that they can determine who will inform us about the proposed issue. Dear colleagues, we now have good reason to continue working. From what? Well, please, now we're gonna go out on another one. Dear People’s Deputy. Well, we don't, we don't. Tomorrow, if we're going to consider a question, please. Then we will have questions to discuss. Well, please. Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of matters for today. We need to consider Bill 7,280 on Ukraine's Customs Tariff. That's how he is here. Hence, we may not be able to follow a reduced procedure. Please report to Deputy Minister Sukhomlin Alexander Anatoliyovich. Prepare Homutinika from the committee. Please, Alexander Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u3	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Good afternoon, Adam Ivanovich! Draft Ukrainian Act amending the Customs Tariff Act. The essence of the bill. The draft law was drafted by the government to bring Ukraine's legislative base into line with the system of universal international law, particularly through the creation of Ukraine's Customs Tariff. It is based on a new version of the Ukrainian Classification of Foreign Economics Products, based on a harmonised system of description and coding of goods in 2007 and a combined nomenclature of the European Union. However, to meet the tariff obligations reached in the negotiating process from Ukraine’s entry into the WTO, as set out in the 2011 protocol on Ukraine’s entry into the WTO. Ukraine’s Customs Tariff is based on the 2002 Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System. While the application of tariff and non-tariff measures in most countries of the world, particularly in European societies, is based on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System in 2007. In connection with this, a number of complications arise, particularly with the differences in the commodity codes of the exporting country and Ukraine during the customs treatment of the imported product. It is impossible to compile customs statistics within the framework of statistical exchange agreements, etc. The issue of transferring Ukraine’s Customs Tariff to the latest version of the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System is constantly raised in negotiations with the European Community. The International Customs Organization expects Ukraine to do the same. In particular, in the framework of the International Convention on the Harmonized System of Description and Coding of Goods, to which Ukraine has joined, according to Presidential Decree of May 17, 2002, No. 466/2002. Regarding the import duty rate, it should be noted that today, during the customs clearance of goods, import duty rates are applied in accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. But at the same time, in excess of the import duty rates set by the Ukrainian tariff commitment schedule for the entry into force of the WTO, the tariff rates provided for in Appendix one to the Ukrainian Protocol during the transformation period ratified by the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Entry into force of the WTO are applied. The transfer of import duties took into account Ukraine’s international obligations as set out in Ukraine’s 2011 tariff commitment schedule. Ukraine's draft law foresees the following changes to the customs tariff of Ukraine: changes in the codes of the OPCZD to meet the requirements of the International Convention on Organisational Systems for the Description and Coding of Goods, of which Ukraine has been a contracting party since 26 August 2002; changes and refinements in textual descriptions, notes to commodity groups and chapters of the Customs Tariff in accordance with changes in the harmonised description and coding system of 2007 and the Combined Nomenclature of the European Union; transfer of import duty rates into compliance with Ukraine's international tariff obligations, in particular with the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine's Entry into the World Trade Organisation. What will be the outcome of the adoption of the law? The adoption of the bill will, first of all, contribute to Ukraine's implementation of international obligations. The second is to simplify the compilation and analysis of statistics, especially those that are part of international trade and exchange in international agreements or international trade negotiations. The third is the standardization of external trade documentation and the acceleration and simplification of customs clearance during external trade operations. In addition, this will lead to the adaptation of Ukraine’s statistical system to international standards and classification methods. The non-admission of the bill would lead to a breach of Ukraine’s international obligations, such as membership in the International Customs Organization in Brussels and the international convention on a harmonised system of description and code of goods. The bill aims to bring effective legislation into line with international obligations regarding the classification of goods and regulations in force today of the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine’s Entry into WTO and does not require financial costs. As regards the analysis of the expert conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The new law, first of all, stated: “It would be appropriate to provide that the introduction of new and changing import duty rates as determined by the customs tariff of Ukraine should be carried out by the Supreme Council by adopting the laws of Ukraine, taking into account not only the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but also the decisions of the Customs Council, to which, pursuant to Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law of 5 February 1992, on the "One Customs Tariff", was addressed, inter alia, in the consideration of draft legislations of Ukraine on customs tariff regulation”. It should be noted that in accordance with the above article of the Ukrainian Law on the Single Customs Tariff, the Customs Tariff Council operates at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the same time, according to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of 3 August 1998 on the procedure for amending import duty rates, draft legislation on customs and tariff regulations, such as the establishment, modification or cancellation of duties, is submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine after their prior consideration and approval by the Customs Tariff Council of Ukraine.” [[No. 1213]] I mean, it already is. Thus today, the issue of the adoption of Ukraine's laws, which foresee the establishment of new and changing import duty rates, taking into account, inter alia, the decisions of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Council, has been regulated by legislation. That's the first one. On the second question, an expert opinion. The law under consideration must take effect 30 days after its publication. Along with both the valid and the draft legislation on the Ukrainian Customs Tariff since 5 April 2001 stipulates that Ukraine's laws on establishing new or changing existing import duty rates take effect no earlier than the date of the start of the new budget period. In accordance with Ukraine’s tax laws and customs tariffs, changes and additions to Ukraine’s tax laws regarding the granting of taxes, tax changes, congregations, compulsory payments have been effective since the beginning of the fiscal year. In view of the above, Mineconomy, the Cabinet of Ministers agrees with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the taking effect of the draft Ukrainian law from the start of the new budget period and proposes to determine the expiration date on 1 January 2011. The bill was discussed and approved at meetings of the Supreme Council Committees on European Integration, Transport and Communications, and Tax and Customs Policy. Taking into account the need for the earliest entry into force, please support the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. I would also like to emphasise that one of the conditions for Ukraine's macro-financial assistance to the European Union is the implementation of a draft Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the European Union, which, among other things, provides for the introduction in the customs system of the modern system of codification of production, built on a harmonised system of codes in 2007, in accordance with international practice. Thus, the key task of this law is to bring into line with the classification based on the harmonised system of description and coding of goods in 2007 and the Combined Nomenclature of the European Union. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? You don't? Thank you, please sit down, Alexander Anatolyovich. Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, please head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u5	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on December 2, 2010, reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers at registration number 7280. The draft Law is designed to bring Ukraine's legislative base into line with the system of generally recognised international law, including through the adoption of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, which is based on the new version of the Ukrainian Classification of Foreign Economics Products, based on the harmonized 2007 System of Description and Coding of Goods and the Combined Nomenclature of the European Union and on the implementation of the tariff obligations achieved in the negotiation process from Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, as set out in the 2011 Protocol on Ukraine's Entry into the WTO. To date, the State is using the external economic classification of goods built on the basis of a harmonised 2002 product description and coding system. So there is a general need to accept the change to the Customs Tariff and to harmonize our legislation with appropriate European updated legislation. According to the general conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the bill can be adopted as a basis. The committee considered the bill in fact, without prejudice to the fact that it is such a great bill, a great project that actually duplicates all the rates that are now in customs legislation, but does not change them in terms of increase, not in terms of reduction. I mean, there's harmonization, there's more technical work, there's code work, there's other positions that are in the customs tariff of Ukraine. The committee's decision to adopt the draft Customs Tariff Act as a basis and to work for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u6	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for the performance. Please, from the factions, national MPs, if you please. Then let us thank the reporters who have told us so well that there is no question or desire to share in the discussion. And indeed, honourable colleagues, those who have met the bill, despite its weight and scope, it aims to resolve technical problems. And that's why I'm sure this is where we're reacting to it. I then make a proposal for adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill No. 7280 amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. Please vote. [[16:18:44]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, could we, given the scientific expertise's comments on what the reporter said they were willing to do. Other nuances that are here and that are to be accepted as a law as a whole. No objections? Roman Mikhailovich, the point is, really, it's a technical law. That's exactly what I'm talking about, Yuri Anatolyovich. I'm saying that I would agree with the scientific expertise's comments that, not 30 days after publication, but with the introduction of the budget year, which is January 1. With such proposals, I am voting on the adoption of the entire law number 7280, amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. Please vote. [[16:19:56]] For 245 Thank you. The law is passed. We should be looking at Bill 7,250 right now. But the government is asking in connection with certain nuances, especially with the change in the names of the central executive authorities to which it will be referred, to transfer its consideration. I'm voting on the motion to postpone the Bill's consideration of 7,250. Please vote. [[16:20:42]] For 234 Sadly, Yuri Anatolyovich. And I would ask, really, when we write bills, to write so that we don't have to change the laws. Write: the central authority of the executive authority that is in this area. But unfortunately, laws often call specific ministries and departments, and they change, and that's why we have to change laws, change laws. Yes, bill number 7106 is under consideration – the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on Economic Associations and on Securities and Stock Markets – on disclosure of information in the stock market. [[Registration number 7106]] I ask you to vote on the bill for a reduced procedure. [[16:21:52]] For 213 Offer supported. I see you've changed the reporter. The Prime Minister suggested that the chairman of the commission report. Where is the commission head? Who Changed the Reporter? I don't know, the Prime Minister's report contains the head of the commission, not a member of the commission. Once again, the Prime Minister's report states: “He will present the law in the Supreme Council of the Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market of Teveliev Dmitry Mihajlovich”. That's very good, but I'm stressing again. We forgive once, secondly, thirdly, and constantly treat the Supreme Council as it pleases. On what basis? Where's the head? The question is being considered. I'm taking a picture of the question until there's a reporter defined by Kabmin or there's a letter to Kabmin about the replacement of the reporter. I don't see the letter here. Yes, we are looking at Bill 7107 -- draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on mortgage bonds. [[7107]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:23:49]] For 209 Supported. Unfortunately, however, respectable colleagues, exactly the same situation, will present the draft law in the Supreme Council of the Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market of Teveliev Dmitry Mikhailovich. Do you have any Well, there's a letter. Let's think about it, but this is the last time we're going to go like this. Because there's no argument: why can't the head represent. It's just the head, you see, doesn't want to go to the Supreme Council. So, please, Bill 7106. We voted that he was in a reduced procedure. Member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u7	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a bill is proposed to amend some of Ukraine's disclosure laws. The amendments are made to bills that give the issuer of debt securities the opportunity to register the basic prospectus of the issue. This will allow the issuer to question the process of registering the issue of securities, and he has the right when he has the right to register securities repeatedly. This simplifies the procedure, particularly by proposing to shorten the registration deadline to 10 days, which will allow you to quickly resolve the issue of completing the circulation costs and solving business problems when the basic prospectus is registered. In addition, it is envisaged to supplement the law with rules that clearly regulate the grounds for refusal to register the release of securities and the prospectus. With a view to preventing cases of changes in the terms and conditions of circulation and payment of securities, order and form of payment of income for securities after the acquisition by an investor of securities and other placement conditions, the bill proposes to prohibit changes to the prospectus after the commencement of the posting, so that no changes can be made to the investor and the conditions of his acquired securities have not changed. The bill requires that the issuer submit a prospectus and register a prospectus, information and procedure for providing information to investors. In addition, the bill provides for amendments to the provisions relating to the system of disclosure of regular special information about the issuer, as well as the obligation of the issuer to disclose information that does not have confidential saturation but is important for the investor to make a decision. The adoption of the bill will ensure that it is appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u8	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u9	And it will remove inaccuracies, and it will also provide an opportunity to protect the interests of the state, the average citizens of investors and other groups of investors. Thank you for your attention. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u10	Thank you. Have a seat, please. You're not guilty because you were sent, so. Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Prasolov Igor Mikolaiovich, 2 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u11	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill was considered at a meeting of our committee on 17 November this year. Let me briefly state what is proposed in the draft. The draft proposes to clarify the rules on disclosure of securities issuers and to facilitate the registration of prospectuses for the so-called base prospectus. The category of the law relating to the procedures for the issuance of securities in Ukraine is also well improved. In addition, the mechanisms for registering the prospectuses for the issue of shares, as well as the manner in which they are introduced, will be changed. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis for further elaboration of the comments made by the Office. In this connection, the Committee decided at its meeting to recommend that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. Please support the decision of our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u12	Thank you, Igor Mikolaiovich. Yes, one. Who else wants to share in the discussion? You don't? Then please, Arjevitin, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the stock market really needs to be improved in our country. And the standards of this bill give progressive impetus to this. And so, no doubt, he needs to be supported in the first reading. Although, of course, he is still imperfect. Let me give you a few examples. For example, when it comes to marketing under this law, and when it comes to marketing under banking law. If banking is about buying securities in the primary market, it's about placing securities under this law. I mean, of course, we have to make sure that all the legislation has the same wording as the main key thesis in the text. The innovation is that it is proposed to introduce a basic prospectus that has never existed before. But of course, as I think it was not appropriate to include now in article 33 of the Law on Economic Societies concerning the issuance of securities, because this rule is already regulated, no matter how this bill is adopted. It takes, of course, something to do with improvements in the design of the basic prospectus and the next prospectus, i.e. to work out the working mode of these different avenues. And in general, of course, I urge that we, on the first reading, support him and improve him to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u14	Thank you, Stanislav. Shall we determine? I then vote on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill 7106 amending the laws of Ukraine on economic societies and on securities and the stock market. [[on disclosure of information in the stock market. Please vote]] [[16:31:39]] For 261 Copy that. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on mortgage bonds. [[Registration number 7107]] We've already voted that under a reduced procedure. Please, a member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich. Get ready for Piglet. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u15	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The specified bill is designed to create conditions for the proper performance of the issuer’s liabilities under mortgage bonds and the performance of mortgage management functions by the manager. The bill provides for changes and additions relating to the quality of mortgage coverage, by establishing a requirement not to include questionable mortgages and other assets to calculate the size of mortgage coverage. It is also envisaged to clarify the principles of the balanced income of the mortgage and the payment of the issuer for mortgage bonds. The bill provides for the improvement of the verification mechanism by the mortgage manager personally and through the auditor, and for the determination of the specified verifications under the terms of the contract. The bill provides for the organization of the manager's actions when the default occurs, including technical ones, as a result of the appointment of a temporary administrator, bankruptcy or liquidation of the issuer of normal mortgage bonds. In addition, it is possible to establish the necessary terms for a contract that is made during the introduction of mortgage management activities. This will allow for a clear and detailed settlement of the issues raised by the obligation to manage mortgages. The adoption of the bill, in our view, will contribute to the proper fulfilment of the issuer’s obligations under mortgage bonds, the stewardship of mortgage management functions, and the strengthening of the protection of mortgage owners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u16	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Igor Mikolaiovich Praslov from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u17	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In short, it is proposed that the draft amend the requirement: the first, to calculate the mortgage coverage, with which there are today certain problems, the activities of the manager and the third, mandatory condition of the mortgage management contract. These three issues together improve the regulation of the mortgage bond market, ensure proper compliance with mortgage bond issuers'obligations and improve the management of mortgage cover management. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council made a number of non-essential comments and suggested that the draft law should be adopted as a basis for further elaboration. We have considered the bill at a meeting of the Committee on 17 November and we recommend that the Supreme Council adopt it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u18	Thank you, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Yes, there can be no serious financial law without Arjevetin. Please, Stanislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill will allow us to settle many things, especially with regard to the circulation of bonds. A new terminology is proposed for the default and the technical default in general. But it seems to me that this formulation needed not only to be defined by this law, but also to be translated into the main basic law, the Securities and Stock Market Act, so that we also have a clear definition throughout the legislative framework: what is a Defolt, what is a "technical default"? Because here we're introducing it exclusively to bonds that are regulated by this law, that is, mortgage bonds. Will this default, or will the technical default spread in such interpretation on bills, on shares, on other bonds? Therefore, it may be appropriate to extend it and make changes to other laws. I don't think it's enough, of course, so far this draft law has settled issues regarding the implementation of these outstanding bonds. Some things need to be improved, how to deal with bonds when they are distributed in a kind of closed regime, that is, among their founders. I think the bankruptcy of a mortgage issuer is not perfectly defined. In fact, these are standards that can be adjusted to the second reading. So I also urge you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u20	There's no more. Then I put a vote on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill 7107, the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on mortgage bonds. Please vote. [[16:37:55]] For the 250. Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on the abolition of the national jury institution in criminal proceedings]] [[Registration number 7154]] Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. [[16:38:27]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please, Filipenko will report. Get ready, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is proposed. [[on the abolition of the Parliamentary Institute in criminal proceedings]] The need to adopt this bill is due to the fact that the current Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code was adopted back in 1960. And so far, a large number of its positions are hopelessly outdated, ineffective, and not in line with modern standards of criminal justice. One of the institutions that has lost its relevance is the Institute of Participation in the Consideration of Certain Categories of Criminal Matters of People’s Congresses, which in practice has led to considerable difficulties in applying them. To date, participation in the national jury’s criminal proceedings is mandatory in the trial of the first instance of crimes for which the law provides for the imposition of a sentence in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty. This is article 171 of the Ukrainian KPC. However, due to the lack of enough people who want to serve as national judges, their involvement and further challenge to the court, and their direct participation in the trial today for 6, more than 600 common courts are a very big problem. Such a state of affairs leads to a decrease in the speed of justice, since judges are constantly forced to postpone judicial proceedings that lead to a violation of the rights of both the accused and the victims. The practice also raises questions about the qualifications of the national jury and their ability to deal professionally with complex issues of criminal law. In view of the bill that you have tabled for your consideration, it is proposed that the criminal proceedings in which the national jury is currently taking part be conducted by a college composed of three professional judges. In addition, the project provides for the removal from the CPC of all the positions that refer to the national jury. I believe that the removal of the need to involve the national jury in dealing with crimes under the law will not lead to a deterioration in their quality, but rather to an effective solution, since such a case will be handled by purely professional judges. Thank you. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u22	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee is Musik Volodymyr Romanovich. I can't see. Chevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u23	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Honorary Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, discussed at its meeting a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the abolition of the National Parliamentary Institute. The project proposes to amend the Criminal Procedure Code to eliminate the national jury's institution in matters that are currently being brought before the court for their participation in the jurisdiction of the court, which is made up of three professional judges. Having examined the bill, the committee considers it necessary to recommend that the Supreme Council reject it, since it is contrary to the requirements of articles 124, 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Moreover, the bill also contradicts the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. The principal scientific administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is of the same opinion. Thus, the committee proposes to reject the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u24	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Where are our lawyers? Yes. Rubinsky, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u25	Dear colleagues! Well, practice shows that most of the people's jurors perform such a formal, I'd say a decorative mission. Moreover, the author of the legislative initiative correctly pointed out that judges simply had to use their personal connections to find those who wanted to become a national assembly. To some extent, this function is obsolete. But I don't want to talk here about the need to throw away another moment. Why has the jury not yet been tried in Ukraine? I'd like to ask that question. And obviously I want to pay attention to my colleagues. Sorry, but the art film also inspires or allows you to analyze some of Nikita Mikhalkov's "12". With regard to the jury's work, it is the jury that makes it particularly difficult, morally complex, ethically complex criminal cases often, more densely at the expense of the jury that this court can be more objective. People, I'd say so, and fair. So without denying the idea of this bill, I would like to ask those who are developing appropriate legislative proposals to pay attention to the non-implementation in Ukraine of the stated principle and mission of the jury. As it is in many countries, including those where we consider the legal system to be one of the most developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u26	Thank you. Is there no one else? Dear colleagues! Then we are. Yes. Please, just a minute. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u27	Dear colleagues. In fact, we have a problem in this regard, which is suggested to settle it in the most optimal way. You know what the problem is. There are a number of institutions that we have moved back to when, for example, our principles of constitutional order and the judicial system were formed, which are not suitable, let's say, for an objective, continental system of law and have little application in the environment of countries with a continental system of law where we want to go. Because now that we're there, it would be very loud. For example, as far as the jury is concerned, and so on. They are still more of an Anglo - Saxon legal system. The courts of the chief judges or the Asian courts, which are in the French and German legal systems, are far from the jury, which is quite common to the Anglo - Saxon system of law. But I have to tell you, even the Anglo-Saxon system of law is already moving away from the ordinary system of judges, considering what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u28	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u29	In fact, they are now, especially in the British system, where more than 90 percent of the cases are being filed without the appropriate jury, since the accused himself admits his guilt immediately, hoping to mitigate the appropriate penalty on the part of the court in this case. So I think that this bill is worth supporting, because in this case it's completely congruent to at least the position of our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u30	Thank you. Let's vote, dear fellows. The question is not very simple, for there is a Constitution, and we do not want to follow it, but the will of the author. And it will now be shown by the Supreme Council. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill 7154, amending the Criminal Procedure Code. [[on the abolition of the national jury institution in criminal proceedings]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:46:33]] For 224 Who's to go back to the vote? Please vote. [[16:46:55]] For 234 We're back. I am voting on the proposal for support in the first reading of Bill 7154 on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code. [[on the abolition of the national jury institution in criminal proceedings]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:47:26]] For 233 Decision taken. Bill No. 6339 is under consideration — draft Law supplementing article 164 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the lifting of responsibility for the implementation of economic activity and the application of the principle of silent consent. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:48:08]] For 208 Supported. Please, Chechatov will report. Prepare Shemchuku Victor from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u31	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act on the addition to article 164 of the Code on Administrative Violations (responsibility for carrying out economic activities with the application of the principle of silent consent). This project provides for additions to article 164 of the Code on Administrative Offences to clarify the composition of the offence for work without a document. The main objective of this law is to abolish administrative responsibility for the conduct of business with the application of the principle of silent consent. The adoption of the proposed bill will lead to the abolition of responsibility for the implementation of economic activity by applying the principle of silent consent and, as a result, to the real implementation of this principle in the permissive system. To sum up, this bill is in the context of the implementation of the strategic policy that is being implemented by the President in order to deregulation the economy. Asking for support in the first reading of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u32	Thank you, sit down, please. Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u33	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement examined the draft law proposed by the People’s Deputy. The purpose of the bill is to abolish administrative responsibility for the implementation of economic activity with the application of the principle of silent agreement since 30 December 2009, since Ukraine has introduced the principle of silent consent under which the holder acquires the right to conduct certain activities, to carry out economic activity or to carry out business activities without obtaining an appropriate document of a permissive nature, provided that the holder, or the person authorized by him, has been given a full application and documents, but in the legal period of the documents of a permissive nature, or the decision not to issue it, has not been issued or has not been submitted. After reviewing the bill, the committee considers it necessary to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and generally as a law. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus has the same point of view. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u34	Thank you. Yes, is there a need to discuss? You don't? I then put to the vote on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 6339 of the draft Law supplementing article 164 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the lifting of responsibility for the conduct of business with the application of the principle of silent consent. Please vote. [[16:51:40]] For 232 The bill was adopted in the first reading as a basis. We are considering Bill No. 7038, a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase the responsibility of officials to prevent entrepreneurship. The author of the bill is Royal. He won't report. Please, from the committee is Shemchuk Viktor Viktorovich. Report to the committee, please. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:52:30.]] For 218. Supported. Victor Victorovich, I heard your proposal. But unfortunately, there's a scientific observation. That's why it's better for the second one. The previous law means the previous law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u35	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! A law enforcement committee has considered a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibility of officials for hindering entrepreneurial activities. The purpose of the bill is to increase the responsibility of officials who act as authorities or as local government, as well as of law enforcement agencies. The task of the project is to impose severe sanctions for violations of the law in the field of service. The committee received many conclusions and suggestions from government authorities and agencies. And since the project covers a number of different aspects, in particular its reasoned observations and suggestions were provided by experts from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice, the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the leading legal institutions, and so on. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. After considering the bill, the committee, in support of the position of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, as well as of the professional ministries and departments, recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft bill, number 7038, be returned to the plenary on the first reading, subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u36	Thank you, Victor Viktorovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u37	Carmazine, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u38	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a case where we can now begin to stop the saviour of control organs that come and, I don't know, how you do, and I'm very often approached by people and say, "We've got as many as three men coming and, by referring to the law of "The militia," they want to do this, both of them, and check it out." I say, "They have no right to do this." Yeah, he says it's good for you to explain that they don't have a right, but that's what you do. And it stops the business, it damages the individual, the business, the institution or the organization. This is also an opportunity to demand corruption payments. And that's how today's budget is formed both in the MCS system and in the militia system, and in the system of many, many organs, and law enforcement, and others close to them. The same is true of local governments. As a result, we need to make the changes that are there. They involve harm to the individual and responsibility. By the way, that's exactly what the President wrote to you, honourable national deputies, in remarks to the Tax Code. That's exactly what he wrote about. But there were no such suggestions. There are proposals in this bill, in the Royal Natalia Bill. So I suggest you accept these suggestions in the first reading. They need to be cleaned up, bits of polished. But it is urgent to give people these changes to legislation, where we would deprive officials and make officials responsible for the damage caused to a natural person, a business, an institution or organization of their illegal activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u39	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Question completed. I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill 7038. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase the responsibility of officials to prevent entrepreneurship. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:57:04]] For the 15th. Not supported. There is a proposal by the committee and the same conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration: to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote on this proposal. [[16:57:32]] For two. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues! I'd like a moment of your attention. We need to make some changes to the rulings that we voted with you on December 2nd when we were considering the decision to elect judges. Sadly, it was not the Supreme Council’s fault. And those who made those proposals. The Higher Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine has made some mistakes. Some of the judges were already elected on an untimely basis. They offered to choose again. Some were not chosen, and they thought that they had already been chosen on an untimely basis, and unfortunately, they came out, sorry, confusion is unacceptable. Therefore, I propose, be careful, so I propose that in the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges, the words: “The Žitomir Administrative Court of Appeal of Epaka Valentina Vasilovna” be replaced by the words: “Dnipropetrova’s Court of Commerce Temkižev Igor Hažmuridovič and the Ravenske Appellate Court of Agriculture Machischuk Angelina Veniaminovna”. [[Registration number 6368-2]] And in the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the election of judges, we propose that the words “The Lifetime Court of Appeal” be supplemented by the words “Yevpak Valentina Vasilovna”, and the words “Dnipropetrova’s Court of Appeal Temkižev Igor Hažmuridovic and Macishuk Angelina Benjaminovna” be deleted. [[Registration number 7368-6]] Such clarifications would correspond to the actual circumstances of the case and the content of the original documents presented by the Ukraine’s Higher Qualifying Commission. Please vote on these clarifications in the Supreme Council's ruling. [[16:59:45]] For 254 Thank you. We've made a point. A draft Act amending article 48 of the Ukrainian Mining Code is under consideration. [[on social guarantees for mining workers]] [[Registration numbers 6437 and 6437-1]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:00:19]] For 213 Supported. Please, Landik Valentin Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u40	Dear MPs, dear Adam Ivanovich! Amendments to the mining law of article 48 are proposed. What's the problem? I think, and a thousand citizens who address us with the fact that when the law was passed in 1999, there was a mistake, etc. When a mine closes, for example, coal miners get coal after the mine closes and continue to work, it is written in the law. But they forgot to write one thing that when a mine closes and it closes for a year or so, they don't get that coal. That is why I propose to make changes to article 48 in this way. Part five of article 48 reads: “During the liquidation or conservation of mining companies, coal security is carried out within the tariff agreement by a legal successor to such categories of persons,” followed by the text. And part of article 48 reads: “After the liquidation or preservation of the mining business, coal collateral for the consumption of coal is carried out in part five to the categories of persons by the successor defined in the order set out in the following part by the numbers.” So I ask you, honourable deputies, to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u41	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, please, Volinec, we have Eugene Valeriyovich. Please. 6437-1 bill, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u42	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill has been prepared on the implementation of articles 43, 48 in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the current Act on State social security for workers, pensioners, their families of enterprises that are destroyed, preserved on an equal footing with destroyed or already preserved mining enterprises under articles 43 and 48 of the Mining Law of Ukraine, in particular the provision of coal for domestic needs, compensation for electricity consumed, gas, central heating for persons with central heating. The law also covers the expansion of the list of categories of citizens who are entitled to domestic coal. The need for coal processing facilities to be distributed is due to the fact that almost all paragraphs of part seven of the law in force confirm this. The extension to mine-building facilities is due to the fact that, apart from coal-building enterprises, there are enterprises that perform the same functions as coal-building plants, but for various reasons, they are called “shockhouses” and have unfortunately fallen off the list. It is proposed that justice be restored in respect of the right to be granted free of charge to families of pensioners, persons with disabilities who have died from a general illness, if they have enjoyed this right in life, who receive a pension in connection with the loss of the breadwinner. Thus, the rights of families who have died of a common disease will be comparable to those of families who have died in enterprises. The changes in the law clarify the list of enterprises and workers and other persons entitled to free domestic fuel. By doing so, we will improve existing legislation and improve the transparency of the system of providing public social security to employees, as well as those enterprises that are being eliminated or preserved, to resolve existing legal conflicts. Thus, the bill proposes that enterprises be exempted from additional expenditures for the provision of carbon free of charge for domestic needs and that compensation be paid to enterprises through subsidies from the State budget to local budgets without additional costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u43	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u44	With regard to article 48, the provision of coal for domestic needs is currently only effected after the destruction or preservation of the mining plant, which is unacceptable to the categories of miners who have completed the statutory rule and have not, by their own volition, remained in the status of enterprises. which is disposed of or preserved. Please accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u45	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, you have listened to two bills, number 6437 – author of national MP Valentin Ivanovich Landik. A very important section of this Upper Law, he reported here today from this rostrum. And the second bill, 6437-1, which was reported by Evgeny Valerevich Volínec. There is also the expansion of the professions to be provided with domestic fuel, compensation for electricity and gas. The Committee therefore decided to support both bills in the first reading and to merge them in the second. This is the decision of the Committee. I want to report to you. And I, Adam Ivanovich, ask for the floor because two "for", two "against" as a national MP. I was not present on this committee, and I was on the Committee on Budgets because the issue of financing the coal sector for 2011. Therefore, with regard to the first bill, 6437, which was reported by Valentin Ivanovich Landik. That's a very serious question, because our coal companies are closing and this closure can take two or three years, and people work there, coal miners do the same thing. Having an internship, they don't get coal because they're on a liquidated enterprise. I think this is where we have to support the first reading clearly. With regard to the second bill, the author has reported here, it should be said that benefits are increasing. I firmly oppose today's introduction to the Mining Act of articles 43, 48 by miners or workers of mining enterprises. We can't hang under the Mountain Law today, they're miners, we can't supply domestic fuel to miners for one reason: it's a mining facility. Shavers extract coal and it's a relief to miners who.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u47	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u48	I therefore categorically disagree with this bill and against it because it only concerns miners who work underground.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u49	Who wants to share in the discussion? The best miners know Sulkowski, I see. Who else? And Vaziewsky. Then, please, Sulkowski, then Vizevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u50	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for the compliment. Indeed, the faction of the Party of the Regions, Equality. There are no mines in the Plains. But I really listened to the interviewing authors of the 5437 Valentin Landik project and listened to the proposal of the committee and Victor Ivanovich Turmanov. And really, you have to say that author Wolintz Eugene, he's always, so he's a patriot for miners. But only when the election is over, then he's the only one who talks and talks, then forgets everything. And then in the process, when author Valentin Ivanovich registered his project, I think then, and he joins, the alternative is that he's more concerned with miners than other people's deputies. So today it is clear that he did not even appear to report his draft law. Taking this opportunity, I'm making an offer, and I'm making a proposal, really, to support the committee's decision, as reported by Viktor Ivanovich Turmanov. Indeed, Valentin Landik's draft law is useful. And he's really going to take into account all the gaps that were made by the previous laws that we passed on miners. And I urge you to vote in favour of draft Law 6437 by Valentin Landik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u51	Thank you. Then there will be, Eugene, a replica. Paul Gnutovich, you've gone a little sideways. It feels like there's no shafts. We have two Volinians. Yes, please, the Vizier microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u52	Dear Ukrainians! You can see that even this bill, which I'm sure will support and the ruling Party of Regions, has already been discussed. First of all, the question is, when does this have to be an election so fast? And secondly, not knowing your colleagues by the so-called majority is also wrong. Because Eugene Volintz has actually proposed a rather constructive bill, and I think that this option should be fundamental, should be fundamental. And Mikhailo Wolintz, who at one time proposed similar bills now, thanks to the same Party of Regions, is in the hospital. But speaking of essentially, it would be right to take the bill of Eugene Volintz as a basis and just attach it, because this particular detail about the coal companies that are closing down might be more likely to enter into the bill, as proposed at number 6437/1. And it's more complex to solve for the miners, because it's not just the question of the miner that he's working and that there's a mine. And if he went back to his mother far into the village and the coals, he would have to drive hard, and he would have to be supplied with electricity, or otherwise. He was a miner! The same electricity is produced from the same coal that is mined by his fellow miners. And it would be fair for him, in another way, to be compensated for this reward that his mining colleagues receive and are able to get this coal. So it's quite fair, I insist that we vote first, and here we've shown mining solidarity and those who are with them, and those miners identify themselves, in the context of voting for Bill 6437/1. And in the committee's future, Landik's first initiative is already under consideration in addition to the bill. I think that would be fair, first of all, to the miners. The important thing is that the governments in front of the miners do what they have already done in this room. 'Cause for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u53	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. The faction was already being introduced, although not by miners. No, no, I mean from that faction, there's another general who wants to speak, but not a coal general. Dear colleagues, we will now determine. I want to remind you of the committee's decision, because the committee was briefed by a representative who wasn't at the committee meeting. This is a committee decision based on the adoption of Bill 6437-1, because it's broader. And 6437 should be included in the preparation for the second reading, since it touches only one 48 - article article. That's the committee's decision. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 6437 amending article 48 of the Ukrainian Mining Code. [[on social guarantees for mining workers]] Author – Landik Valentin Ivanovich. Please vote. [[17:13:42]] For 262 Copy that. Well, we have reasons, although they're alternative, but again, here's an article, there's a wider one. I'm voting on Bill 6437-1, author of Wolintz. Yeah, yeah. Once again, the honourable colleagues, the honourable colleagues, both Bills 6437, which we voted on, refer only to the 48th article. And the bill that I'm putting on Wolinz right now applies to both 48 and other articles. To avoid falling under 116 articles of the Rules that cannot be passed on to others, I propose that I support this in order to then make one comprehensive bill. I'm voting 6437-1. Please vote. [[17:14:48]] For 262 The bill is also supported. I'd like the committee to prepare for the second reading. Bill 7065 on amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Free System of Economic Activities is under consideration. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[17:15:24]] For 218. Supported. Yes, unfortunately, there is no author of the Royal Bill. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? It's all clear, isn't it? I then put to the vote the first reading on draft Bill No. 7065 of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:16:14]] For-39 Then let's do this, let's send him the author of the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. For processing. [[17:16:43]] For 246 Offer supported. Bill 4708 is under consideration, draft law amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[to accompany medical advertising with warnings of the threat of self-medication]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:17:16]] For 216 Offer supported. Please, Oleg Zarubinsky, author of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u54	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, this bill provides for amendments to part four of article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act, which establishes that the advertising of all medical devices should be accompanied by a warning of the threat of self-medication. The bill is designed to protect the physical health of Ukrainian citizens by restricting the manipulative components of medical advertising and thus forming a constant social awareness of the danger of self - care. The Explanatory Note to the Bill contains some statistical material. I'd just like to publish some of them. Every year, there are up to 40,000 reports of drug abuse that have led to various side effects, including some 100 deaths. This is because only the effects that occur during a period of medication or the next few days do not take into account the complications that occur after a considerable period of time, months, or years. The main reason for the spread of irresponsible self - medication is the uncontrolled advertising of drugs that by pressing on the human psyche offer to cure all possible diseases without medical care within a short period of time. We are all consumers of television and not only television but also radio and press products, advertising products. And we all see a panacea being advertised that's enough to go through the course and then the disease will be cured without talking to a doctor, a specialist, a professional who might point out what side effects there might be for a particular person. So this bill, once again, I want to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u55	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u56	There are very few proposals for this bill. Very little. Advertise that self - medication is harmful to your health. Just like it's on cigarettes. And statistics show that experts prove that this little change has a positive effect. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u57	Thank you. Yes, we have Condratuk Helen from the committee. None. Yes, Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u58	The committee considered a bill of the Ukrainian Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act, which was introduced by Ukrainian national deputies Zarubinsky and Shepelev. [[to accompany medical advertising with warnings of the threat of self-medication]] And I approved of recommending it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis for consideration in the first reading. The bill provides for amendments to part four of article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act, which obliges all medical devices to be advertised with a warning of the threat of self-medication. What should shape society’s view of the danger of self - medication? The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council recommends that the first reading of the draft adopt the bill on the basis of the comments it has made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u59	Thank you. Please sit down. The question is clear. But the medics want to say their word. Carpuk, please. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u60	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. The current nature of this problem underlines that in addition to this bill is the following – 7007, where the issue of the ban on medicines in Ukraine is more widely addressed. And in practice, if you adopt Law 7007 as a basis, then this law will complement it. Because in 7007 there is a total ban on advertising medical supplies. As far as the bill is concerned, it should be said that it is extremely relevant. And what needs to be said about self-medication damage is a really positive moment that would really have to be included in the next bill. This is also emphasized by the fact that in recent times only we have considered the Heratchenko and Gerasimük bills on changes to the Advertising and Advertising Law. You know, last Sunday, the Kyiv City Council accepted an appeal to the Supreme Council to have legislators draft an appropriate bill on the complete prohibition of advertising medical devices. I want to say that in Ukraine the amount of medicine has increased in several ways in recent years. And in 2009, think about it, it's $2 billion. These are huge sums. When you look at the list of drugs that people use, it's often for nonmedical purposes, often for self-medical purposes. Self - care is the fifth cause of death in the world, and in the United States, it is noted that 1 out of every 4 hospitals is linked to the side effect of medical treatment. That is why this law is valid, and it needs to be supported. But once again, I would like to emphasize that we need to consider it with the law of 7007, which we are about to hear in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u61	Thank you, the discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the bill amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on the promotion of medical warnings, the threat of self-medication]] [[Registration number 4708]] [[17:23:55]] For-74. No, let's do the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u62	You don't have to? Yeah? Well, then, it's rejected. We are considering a draft Law amending certain legislation in the field of health care. [[on increased control of the circulation of medicinal products, food products, special dietary intake of functional food and dietary supplements]] The registration number is very nice - 707. There's an offer and he's asking Tetjan Bachechev for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:24:53]] For-200 Offer supported. Bachelor Tetjana Dmitrovna, subject of the legislative initiative Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! What Zarubinski is proposing today is that Oleg proposes in each package that self-medication be harmful to health. This will definitely lead to drug travel. Just like the cigarette is written on the package today. This bill, 7007, as Vladimir Karpuk said, we worked very closely, and the people's deputies, who had previously proposed a bill prohibiting drug advertising, were all united here. And we will certainly take your next wording into account if this law is adopted as a basis. Respected People's Deputies, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council recommends that Bill 7007 be adopted as a basis; the Committee on Legal Policy indicates that the bill does not contain rules that are contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine; the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship supports the bill and recommends that it be adopted as a basis; the Committee on Health also recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. The four laws of Ukraine are amended: the framework of Ukrainian health legislation, which was adopted in 1992; the Drug Act, which was adopted in 1996; the Law on the licensing of certain economic activities, which was adopted in 2000 and the amendments to the Advertising Act, which was adopted in 1996. The main points that we point to this law are to strengthen State control not only of medicines produced in our country, but also of medicines imported into Ukraine. And, of course, change is an important point here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u64	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u65	Invites the Ministry of Health to amend its obligation to provide a single official State registry. Today, no one knows how many drugs, how many new drugs, and that's why it's very important. We also propose that pharmacies that sell drugs today, that have certain conditions, that disabled persons with physical disabilities and the elderly and the pregnant and wheeled have access to pharmacies as well, that they have certain conditions as is the case in Europe. We also suggest that today, when a license is obtained, it is stated that the right to produce, let's say, such a medicine, but it does not specify that it will be a tablet, ointment or capsule, specifically specified. Because they get a license to produce pills, and they produce ointments, and so on and so forth. This is very important. When we obtain a licence, we offer a mandatory examination of the logistics base, under which conditions the tablets and the mandatory qualifications of the staff are made, because of the 140 inspections that took place in 2010 out of 140.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u66	Yes, Aunt Dmitry, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u67	10 are dislicensed. And the main one, one second, Adam Ivanovich, is in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u68	I'll give you five seconds, but finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u69	Full ban on advertising medicines and biologically active additives and medical supplies. Today, $2 billion in drug sales, $1 billion in drugs are purchased by Ukrainians and sold by farmhands to advertisers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u70	Thank you. Aunt Dmitry, you said four minutes instead of two minutes. Thank you, you've convinced us. [[Applause]] You convinced us. And now you're going to feel that way. Please, Karpuk of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The need for the preparation and introduction of this bill has been caused by a number of negative developments that are currently being observed in Ukraine and that can be eliminated through legislative regulation, such as ensuring citizens' right to quality medical care and affordable medical care, protecting the population from the upsurge of unconscionable, unreliable drug advertising, which leads to catastrophic trends in self-medical use, nonmedical use of drugs and the emergence of drug poisoning. Regrettably, the potential consumers and victims of such advertising are the least protected groups of the population and the elderly. Today’s legislation on medical devices does not protect the population from entering Ukraine’s market for inadequacies and counterfeit drugs. Therefore, Ukraine has become a country for unscrupulous drug suppliers to import and advertise all the junk from Europe. This bill strengthens control over the quality of medical devices in circulation in Ukraine’s market. In addition, it aims to reduce the prevalence of irresponsible self - medication among the population by banning advertising for drugs and vacations. and the introduction of prescription drug leave. In this context, the bill prohibits advertising for drugs is not a means of achieving a goal, namely, a system of protecting the population from bad advertising and reducing the use of nonmedical drugs, but rather a goal of ban. Moreover, the European Convention on Transboundary Television, which prohibits the broadcasting of prescription drugs, provides that each party may take more stringent measures than the convention provides. Therefore, the bill does not conflict with European legislation on the prohibition of advertising medicines. In view of what has been said, the Health Committee recommends the adoption of a Law amending certain legislation in the field of protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u72	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u73	on strengthening the control of the circulation of medical devices on the basis and entrusting the Committee with further work on the second reading, taking into account the observations and suggestions made by the legal entities of the legislative initiative. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u74	Yes, dear colleagues, I think it's understandable. Zarubinski is right. Two minutes, please. Catherine Timofievno, you may want to, but the faction has already wanted Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u75	I carefully read the first and second bills. Both have the right to exist. But I would like to point out that the second bill does not cover the first bill. That's the first one. The other one. There was a significant inaccuracies, let me put it mildly, in terms of the fact that something is going to get more expensive, a package of drugs. This bill, the author of the legislative initiative of which your humble servant is a servant, provides for changes to the Advertising Act. The advertisement in Ukrainian legislation is clearly defined, advertising is not what's written on a package of drugs, it's simple things. And it was said that it obviously had a negative impact on the vote on the right bill, although the first reading was that it would increase the price of drugs. It's a lie, consciously or unconsciously, I don't know, I don't want to say anything else. But what I'm saying is that this bill, which was rejected, doesn't make the medicine any easier, it's not true, and it only applies to television advertising, to radio, where there's a notion of advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, we're done. Do not pressure situations where they are not needed. We will now return to King Horoch. I put to the vote the first reading of Bill No. 7007 of the Law amending certain legislation in the field of health. [[to increase the control of the circulation of medicines, food products for special diet, functional food and dietary supplements]] Please vote. [[17:34:28]] For 260 Decision taken. There may be suggestions, but think when the law is being considered, not tomorrow. Dear colleagues! Now we have to look at Bill 2619. But there is a letter from the author. He's asking for a transfer. I am voting on a proposal by my colleague Shevchuk to transpose the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Employers' Organizations. [[Registration number 2619]] Please vote. [[17:35:18]] For 214 They didn't. So I'm asking Chevchuk. None. There is a motion for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:35:45.]] For 208 Decision taken. Please, Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich. None. Dry from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u77	Dear colleagues! In general, the author of the bill, Oleg Borisovich Shevchuk, the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, has asked very much for this bill to be transposed because he needs to agree on a number of rules that apply today to the organisation of the work of employers and the signing of the general agreement. Sadly, this offer of support has not been reached. That's what I'm talking about. The author of this bill proposes a new edition of the current Employers' Organization Act, which aims to further enhance the role of employers' organisations, their integration in economic, social and labour relations in shaping economic policies in the state and improving the social dialogue system. You know, today when our economy is called a transition or a catching-up, there's probably no more important legislators than the perfect system of social dialogue. The bill defines legal, socio-economic, organizational principles, creation and functioning, employers' organisations, forms and directions of their activities. Clearly, a number of comments were made on the committee, and we agreed with the comments of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration regarding article 26 of the project on 0.3 percent of the payroll fund. Article 5 of the Law on Taxation of Business Income. There are a number of comments that could certainly be implemented when preparing this bill for second reading. In view of the fact that the Hall did not support the passing of this bill, voting for it, I think something will be problematic. But I'm reporting the committee's decision. The Committee supports the legislative initiative of the author of the bill, since the proposed standards are designed to enhance the role of the employers' organisation and propose to adopt it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u78	Yes, who has the desire to share in the discussion? None. I then vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 2619, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Employers' Organizations. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:38:41]] For-7. The bill was rejected. Bill 2619 was rejected. Dear colleagues, who, in order to return to the vote on Bill 4708, please vote. [[17:39:48]] For 255 We're back. I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 4708 amending article 21 of the Advertising Act. [[to accompany medical advertising with warnings of the threat of self-medication]] [[17:40:23]] For 254 Copy that. Let God do it. Bill number 7066 of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the cancellation of the driver’s licence voucher and the improvement of road safety regulations]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:41.]] For 199 Supported. Please report to Gusarov Sergey Mikolayovich. The reporter is Blue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to increase road safety. Bringing Ukraine's legislation into line with European Union legislation. Today, the need for a license card is not in line with the requirements of the International Convention on Road Traffic. According to it, the right to operate a transport vehicle is certified only by the appropriate certificate. According to the U.S.S. In the countries of Europe, as in Ukraine, today, the calculation and analysis of traffic violations are carried out through state-owned automated electronic databases. The management of the DAI MVS database of Ukraine is provided for by the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. As a result, the existence of such a gift at the moment is not worthwhile. So the idea of the bill is very simple to cancel a coupon that has ceased to function. In addition, the bill proposes to remove the gaps in the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences regarding the definition of a body which should have protocols for the commission of an offence under two articles. It's abandoning the location of road accidents and disrupting the installation order, using special signal devices. Imagine that today there is a responsibility for these offences, but there is no one who has the right to make protocols under these articles. The main scientific and expert office, the main committee in its conclusions, makes observations on the view. Underworld*** for violating articles 122 with badge 4 and 122 with badge 5 of the Code of Administrative Offences. They point out that the sanctions provided for in the above articles include public works, administrative arrests, and the confiscation of special signal devices, and these sanctions can only be imposed by a court of law. I agree with that conclusion. The authors make a commitment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u80	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u81	I agree with that conclusion. The authors commit themselves to making appropriate proposals for the second reading of the bill. So we're going to determine who's going to make the protocol and we're going to leave the matter to court. Ladies and gentlemen, let's give a New Year's gift to motorists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u82	Thank you. Comrade General, when you're a deputy, you're generous, and when you were in charge, you probably looked at these problems differently. Yes, Sinica, please, Artem Mikolaiovich, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u83	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications at its meeting on 20 October considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (as regards the cancellation of the driver’s license card and the improvement of the regulation of road safety relations). Subjects of the law of the legislative initiative are asked to amend part of article 15 of the Road Traffic Act, which excludes the driver’s license card from the list of documents confirming the right to drive a vehicle. The Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences proposes to change the cases of misconduct referred to in articles 122.4 and 122.5 “Distortion of the order for the installation and use of special light or sound signals, devices”, referring them instead of the courts to internal affairs authorities. The aim of the bill is to improve road safety and bring Ukraine's legislation into line with European Union legislation. The legislative repeal of the requirement to confirm the right to drive, in addition to the licence, and the driver’s licence card will meet the requirements of the 1968 Convention on Road Traffic. At the same time, the Committee believes that some of the provisions of the bill to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences need to be further developed, since the above-mentioned articles provide for, inter alia, the imposition of public works, administrative arrests, confiscation of special light or sound signal devices that can only be imposed by the court. These positions will be further elaborated on the committee during the preparation of the draft for second reading. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, together with the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Ministry of Justice, reviewed the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u84	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u85	He supports it. As a result of the discussion at the committee meeting, he unanimously decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws of Ukraine from 30.08.2010. [[on the cancellation of the driver’s licence voucher and improving the regulation of road safety relations]] [[Registration number 7066]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u86	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? So it's not like it's about banks. Sign up. Yes, please, Arjevitin. Arjevitina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u87	Ladies and gentlemen! I have a technical question. As a law-abiding driver, I know that if you're more than 20 kilometers, well, you're over 60, and you're up to 80, only if you're fined by the militia. But I lived with that thought. And I'm reading a valid editorial and a proposed editorial. Where it's written, if you're over 50 kilometers. So that's how I got it. I printed a special edition. There's also 20 in the actual edition, 20 points out of 20. But why were we given a table where the figure is 50 and the actual number is 50 and the proposed number is 50? I don't understand. Is it a technical mistake or is it a deliberate one? Sadly, there was no way to ask the reporter. But, well, they're different. As far as I know, over 20. And in the table, we have 50 and 50. So I'd like this, or this is a technical mistake, to correct. The other one. If you talk about a gift, I think a lot of drivers are saying that there's already a practice, a culture on the road, and the drivers are thanking each other by the way that they include this, well, what's it called? It's an accident. And they're asking if we can take two or three seconds to get a legislative fix so that they can take advantage of the crash, thank you, raise the mood of the person who missed it on the route. I suggest that we consider this before the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u88	Yes, until the next reading, we can only consider what, in the first reading, other articles, we cannot change. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 7066, the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the cancellation of the driver’s licence voucher and the perfect regulation in the field of road safety]] Please vote. [[17:49:26]] For 239. Decision taken. The draft Resolution on the Special Report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights is under consideration, “The State of compliance with European standards of human rights and freedoms”. [[Registration number 7461]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:50.]] For 210 Supported. Please, Edward Ivanovich Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u89	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! On October 22, 2010, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, Nina Ivanovna Karpachov, presented a special report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine entitled “The State of Compliance with European Standards of Human Rights and Freedoms”. The report was prepared for the implementation of paragraph four of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Decree of 23 September 2010 on a special 60-year-old meeting since the signing of the 1950 Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It should be noted that the Commissioner’s report provides a comprehensive analysis of Ukraine’s commitments to the Council of Europe and those arising from both the European Convention on Human Rights and other European conventions ratified by Ukraine. According to Nina’s report, Ivanovna Karpachov made a number of suggestions on the need to take action to promote European standards, to ensure human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. According to part four of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Special Report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine is to adopt a decree. To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Lithuanian Committee, at its meeting on 15 December 2010, reviewed the draft Order on a Special Report of the Authorised Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, “The State of Compliance with European Standards of Human Rights and Freedoms”, submitted by members of our committee, and approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a whole. [[Registration number 7461 from 14.12.2010]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u90	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we vote? I am voting on the draft Resolution on the Special Report of the Authorised Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, "The State of Ukraine's Compliance with European Standards of Human Rights and Freedoms" on the adoption as a whole as a decree. [[Registration number 7461]] [[17:52:41.]] For 240 Decision taken. I continue, my fellow Members, for 15 minutes, our meeting. Who's the louder? Yes, let's move on to the chapter, "Rereading First Reading." The chairman has such a right, fortunately. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine on the Unification of Political Parties. [[Registration number 2002-d]] Upstairs Sergei Petrovich. None. Yes, the committee suggests that the State Building Committee propose to adopt this bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office proposes, writes: “The bill is intended to give the subjects the right of legislative initiative back to work.” The bill states that two or more political parties registered in the proper order have the right to unite through a merger. Do you understand the situation? Yes, there are no willing speakers? None. I am voting for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the 2002-d bill, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Political Parties Act on the merger of political parties. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:54:40]] For-16 The bill is not supported, rejected. Honorary colleagues, Bill 5108, amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons, the drafters of the bill ask the drafters to postpone its consideration. Please vote on the transfer, on the transfer. Vote. [[17:55:21]] For 259. The bill was transferred to the proposal of the authors, shut down. First of all, Anatoly Gristenka. Yes, we are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the registration of a manufacturer's declaration of conformity, registration number 6711, is a second reading. Royal Natalia Yuriovna is not. Yeah, the committee's offering 6711 to take as a basis. Is that a word you're asking for? I'll give you my word. So the committee is offering 6711 to take as a basis. The 6711-d bill can be adopted as a basis, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration proposes. Please, Jojik, on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u91	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, Bill 6711 was considered in September of this year and was not supported by the National Deputies and sent to read again. However, in the course of the work of the committee, the comments and proposals of the national deputies were not taken into account in the creation of a barrier to the introduction into Ukraine of dangerous counterfeit, inefficient, and counterproductive products of unknown origin at demping prices to ensure fair competition. In fact, the Supreme Council is being re-examined by a bill that has been rejected. Only the expiration date of the bill has been changed. The registration is to verify the existence of a manufacturer or a supplier of documented evidence in accordance with the requirements of the product. Including reports of production testing conducted in the competent laboratories.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u92	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u93	Why one minute?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u94	Give me one more minute, please. You have one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u95	Cancelling the registration of a declaration of conformity will create conditions for circulation in Ukraine's market of produce without any State control, including potentially dangerous and falsified, inefficient products at dumped prices. This poses a danger to the Ukrainian consumer and will have a negative impact on the economy of domestic enterprises that produce similar products. Such a state of affairs is neither European nor international. The adoption of a bill in such a form without the prior introduction of a system of State oversight in accordance with European and international requirements will create a catastrophic situation for a domestic producer as a result of unfair competition by importers. This bill will only weaken the State's control of production in the absence of the producer's responsibility for providing unreliable data when making a declaration of conformity. So I'm going to re-send this bill for further processing. And finally, let's count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u96	Actually, dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you something else. In the bill, as was unfortunately the case, and in some others, there was a substantial change, so to speak. The author of the bill, which we sent for further work, was the Cabinet of Ministers. The committee has redrafted the bill if it has been redrafted and is already speaking for itself. You can never do that. If we are to be further developed, the subject of the legislative initiative should be further developed. If we're going to re-read it, we should point out that we need to work on it. And that's why I'm having a hard time right now, and we're gonna be out of your hair. But once again, we can't look at 6711-d, because it's a committee-written bill from the Cabinet of Ministers, and they're already the subject of the legislative initiative, not the Cabinet of Ministers. We can only consider a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers. I stress this especially because both this committee and others, unfortunately, allow for similar actions that cause one subject and then others to appear. Or in the first reading, we take one, and then we write how we want and what we want. So here's the situation, colleagues, I'm going to get your attention. Cage, please, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u97	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Our Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, unfortunately, wasn't the main one in this bill, but we looked at the committee in detail and we decided unanimously that 6711, as you've already seen, is a reflection of 6711. So I suggest you accept 6711 in the first reading, send it to the second reading. And to prepare for which they must be taken into account is our committee’s decision to establish strict market surveillance. Because it is only in this case that what this bill wants to do can be reversed, because the non-registration of the manufacturer's declaration should only take place if appropriate inter-State agreements on mutual recognition of work are made to assess compliance with countries of origin and to implement an effective market.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u98	Finish up. Everything? Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u99	effective market surveillance. Thus, the committee decided to support 6,711 in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u100	Thank you. Thus, the discussion of the matter, the honourable colleagues, is concluded. I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill 6711. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:02:44]] For 217 The bill is not supported. Declined because he's already looked at it twice. The more I don't see the problem here, the session's over. If necessary, in the next session we can consider a new one, that is, in February. And the last bill: this is Bill 4510 and 4510-1. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[concerning the regulation of the broadcasting of programs and online bidding broadcasts]] I called the registration numbers. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:03:41]] For 210 A decision has been made. Yes, 4510, authors of Condratuk and Bagraev. I can't see. Please, 4510-1. Authors: Karmazin and Martinyuk I'm asking Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u101	Yuri Carmazin. We have introduced such a bill, which we have been forced to make in view of the fact that the absence of direct prohibitions on the legislative level on the broadcasting of online fees, games and quizzes is the cause of numerous cases of the task of property damage to television viewers as a result of being misled by unconscionable subjects of speech, since, according to analytical data, the main audience, the participants of such interactive games are minors and the elderly, the normalization and ban on the legislative level of such broadcasts will prevent the commission of violations on the part of unscientific subjects of speech, and protect television broadcasters from illegal landslides. We suggest that we present article 6. After part two, add a new part of this content. Broadcasting programs and online contests, games, quizzes, which directly or indirectly provide for the acquisition of a person's status as a participant, or in which television and radio audiences for the purpose of winning in a cash or property form for a personal victory are offered to contact the organization in any way: to make a telephone call, to send a text message, etc., which provides for the collection of funds for a merger or a telephone conversation, is prohibited. In connection with this part of the third and sixth articles, consider part four to seventh. This is the whole text of the law. That's why when we adopt this law, we're going to keep a lot of families out of these scandals, from the devastation that's happening right now. And with regard to the alternative bill, let me make my point. I think that the bill, which has the number 4510, has a lot of these sheets that can be passed by people who aren't willing to go through it. For there is written such a thing, accounted for: The position given is not extended to. And then you count a lot of cases where you can fool people. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u102	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u103	That's why we're asking to vote in favour of our bill 4510-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u104	And that's the right thing to do. Yes, please, from the Committee, Bondarenko Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u105	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to say that we will now make a decision of either 4510 or 4510-1. What's the point of one and the other bills? 4510 are restrictions that do not apply to such things as creative competitions, sports competitions and lottery games. As far as 4510-1 is concerned, this is a total, total ban. In the case at hand, 4510 places everything on the lottery, competitions and sports competitions in niche channels, i.e. channels with limited access. The Committee's decision as a profile of those who know the industry better, of course, to support 4510. But in this case, we propose a decision of the Hall. As an expert, I recommend a vote of 4510. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u106	Right. He'll keep fooling the people. Yes, if you would like to share in the discussion, write it down. Yes, please, Zarubinsky and Karpuk. Please, the Zarubin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u107	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorary colleagues, the subject of the regulation proposed by the authors, are all subject to the legislative initiative. But to a greater extent, and that's what George Carmazin rightly said, it refers to minors and older people, who, on the part of a highly manipulative, skilled combination by the organizers of these so-called interactive competitions, are victims. I mean the elderly and the underage. We all see these contests. And a normal person certainly sees it as a lie. At least consider that this line, where it goes, how much the Pension Fund, how much there is, how much there, goes so that no one can ever notice. It's a lie. Let's put it bluntly, this is a lie. Whether the legislator should promote this deception or ignore what people simply choose, I think he has no right. And that's why there's a proposal to vote out any manipulative formula, and that's true of manipulative games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u108	Please, Karpuk Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u109	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We support the bill proposed by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, which severely prohibits all these interactive competitions. Because this has nothing to do with the lottery or sports competitions. And we see virtually every channel has a channel that lasts more than two hours, and that light simplicity of guesswork seems to force a lot of people to call, and no one really knows what huge incomes both the owners of television channels and mobile cell phones have. It's estimated that this is quite a large sum, which is tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of dollars a year, totaled on television channels. And that is, indeed, the tragedy of many families, and it must be strictly forbidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u110	Thank you. You can't have two words, because. The factions didn't come from the factions. One minute. Please, the owner of the channels, please. Landik Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u111	Thank you. They don't own TV channels. The thing is, if we take and ban alcohol, tobacco, today's medicine, we ban any kind of competition today: creative, sporting, public lottery. Guys, what can we show on TV is just the Supreme Council and nothing else? Is everything else forbidden? I mean, there's a television industry that has to make some money. It's kind of weird for us. And then we go to a TV show or something and we say we're all good. So be good then and open, and open here in the hall. I'm in. Our committee has supported the first bill, 4510, please support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-21-m1.u112	So, your honors, the discussion is over. Literally, two words. Of course, the bill will be adopted because the owners of the TV channels will never allow such a large amount of money to be lost. But I'd like to think about the kids, the kids, and once again the kids who, unfortunately, give in to this hook, and when the aunt is there, she tells me pretty much what you call me and guess, and then I'll give you the prize. And you know what a huge amount this guess is going to be. Well, when adults do it, then another thing, he does it consciously. And when it involves children and adolescents, which, as it were, is about the same thing that we have spoken to you on more than one occasion. But the matter behind the session hall, and you'll see how it's going to be voted, because the owners are the owners. The bill number 4510 – draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act – is put to the vote. [[concerning the regulation of broadcasting of online bidding broadcasts]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[6:12:47]] For 207 Not supported. I'm voting on Bill 4510-1, amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. Please vote. I'll vote on it. [[18:13:15]] For-72 Dear colleagues. The factions. Everything's gonna be okay now. Region Party 2, Fatherland 0, Our Ukraine 18, Communists 25, People's Party 18, non-fractional 9. Dear colleagues, one minute. The point is that the rating vote showed that the first bill was almost enough. Let's at least do it a little bit. So I propose who, in order to go back to voting on Bill 4510, please vote. Let's do something. Please vote. [[6:14:07]] For 238. We're back. Please support Bill 4510, at least we can do something. Please vote. [[18:14:29]] For 253 Thank you. The bill was adopted in the first reading. Please prepare for the second one. Once again, there will be some restrictions. At the evening session, we also put our money on schedule: 18.14. The plan is complete. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll get back to work.
