ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:13]] There were 423 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Barwinenko Vitalia Dmitrovic. Please welcome our colleague and wish him every success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on June 2, 2010. 20 questions of the agenda were considered: 3 decrees were adopted, one bill was adopted on a basis, 2 bills were sent for re-reading, and 9 bills were rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles 5 and 9 of the Ukrainian Act “On the Supreme Radustice” on 31 May 2010, the President of Ukraine issued a decree on the appointment of the Head of the Security Service of the Ukraine of Horoshkovsky Valerius Ivanovich as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. According to article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice, and part of the first article of article 217 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, before taking office as a member of the Supreme Slave of Justice, I make an oath at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath, I invite a member of the High Council of Justice of Horoshkovsky Valerius Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u2	I, Khoroshkovsky Valeriy Ivanovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. Member of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, welcome to Valery Ivanovich. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing the draft Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy. Rapporteur – Prime Minister of Ukraine Azarov Mikola Janović, co-rapporteur of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of Gorbatyuk Anatoly Aleksijovich. Please, Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! On June 28, we will celebrate the 14th anniversary of the Constitution of Ukraine. I very much hope that it will be celebrated in the light of the fact that, for the first time in these years, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has exercised the powers laid down in article 85, paragraph 5, of the Constitution and has adopted the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy. The President of Ukraine introduced a draft Ukrainian Law on Internal and Foreign Policy for the exercise of his powers and according to the right of legislative initiative. The adoption of this law will fundamentally change the legal space of the State. Internal and external politics as a result will be based, not on political relevance, personal preferences and orientation, as we have seen many times in recent years, but on the law. This is a huge progress towards ensuring the rule of law, strengthening the democratic principles of our nation's existence in the development of civil society institutions. I can see why the previous authorities were resisting the principles of internal and external politics, since this law makes it impossible to pursue an adventurous policy and prevents society from imposing something that it does not support. At last, a measure will appear in the State, a legal standard with which all norm-setting activities of government will be verified, a law, a decree, or a decree that is democratically determined by the principles of public policy or does not respond. Under that condition, there will be no normality of mind, there will be no socio-economic, with the permission to say, experiments that have plagued the people of Ukraine. Under the terms of this law, there will be no situation that shocked society when senior officials quietly signed a letter of agreement to join the NATO Entry Action Plan and the state learned about this by chance from the US senator. There will be no situation where, from society and even from the President of Ukraine, the text of a gas agreement that has damaged the economy in comparison to the loss of military action has been hidden for two years. There will be no situation when the dissolution of Parliament is used as the authoritarian importance of change of power and political course. Instead, the constitutional order and the non-alternative application of legislation will be strengthened. The bill clearly provides that the principles of internal and external policy are to be taken into account when drafting legislative and other legal acts. All projects will be conducted by an expert on the conformity of the basic law. I am deeply convinced that this law is able to consolidate society as a decisive legislative step towards long - term systemic reforms. The citizens of Ukraine will be told: Where the state moves, how it moves, how it moves, how it moves, how it moves, how it moves, how it moves, how it moves, how it moves, how it moves, how it moves, how it moves, how it moves, how it moves. The adoption of the law will also be a clear signal on the principles of Ukraine’s foreign policy for our foreign partners. The adoption of such a law will certainly contribute to the smooth functioning of all branches of government, ensure the continuity and continuity of a course aimed at the development of a modern democratic Ukraine will create preconditions for the stable and constructive functioning of the authorities. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, other public authorities within the limits of the powers established by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, will exercise control over the observance of the principles of internal and foreign policy by the authorities. Ukraine will be a state that is clear, predictable and responsible both for its citizens and for the outside world. The main element of external political forecasting and consistency contained in the bill is a clear confirmation of Ukraine's non-block status, approved by the people during the establishment of the independence of our state. In Ukraine, the president proposes that the day-to-day issue that has dissipated society be removed from the search for its own effective ways of developing the state. At the same time, by approving this provision of law, Ukraine makes a geopolitical choice that is clear and stable for both neighbors and the world’s influence centers. There is no doubt that such a choice will be perceived by the world around us with ease and understanding. The principles of domestic and foreign policy presented by the President of Ukraine are based on the unconditional observance of the Constitution of Ukraine, the guarantees of human and civil rights and freedoms proclaimed by the Constitution of Ukraine, the principles and norms of international law, the social orientation of Ukraine's economy and the continuing socio-economic development of Ukraine, which lead to the strengthening of democratic principles of social state life, the rule of law, the economic and political independence of the State, the protection of its national interests and the strengthening of national security, the establishment of Ukraine as a full and authoritative member of the world society. I point out to the National MPs that the principles of internal policy are defined by the defining areas of state activity: the development of statehood, the development of local self-government and the promotion of regional development, the formation of a civil society institution, national security and defence, the economic sphere, the environmental sphere and the sphere of technological security, the social and humanitarian sphere. That is, the implementation of this law will ensure the continued development of Ukraine, the protection of state sovereignty, the protection of the interests and rights of our citizens, the protection of property, and thus ensure progress in all spheres of life. I would like to stress that the bill defines and implements the principles of internal and external policy on the basis of close interaction and coordination of the efforts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, ministries, other central and local executive bodies. People's deputies please support the bill. Thank you for your attention. Ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister has finished his speech, please sign up for the question. Everything will be on full schedule. Names of the national MPs, please. National Deputy Kozub, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mikhail Chechetov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u6	Dear Mikolo Janovich, we are very grateful for your very thorough report, where you have clearly defined the underlying principles of foreign and domestic politics. But, with your permission, I would like to ask you one question for clarification. The president of Ukraine and the new government dramatically changed foreign policy by taking a closer look at the Russian Federation. At the same time, the law deals with ensuring Ukraine's integration into European space with a view to gaining membership in the European Union. How will this be accomplished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u7	Thank you for asking. I want to say that European integration is a systemic social transformation aimed at building a legal and economically stable state. As a result, the course towards European integration remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u8	National MP Zablockatz, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u9	Thank you. With each year, the number of citizens who go to the European Union in matters of service, scientific affairs, cultural matters, and employment is increasing. What is the government doing to bring the time of the visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens to the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u10	As you know, the President of Ukraine has made it a task for the Government to conclude negotiations with the European Union on the granting of visa-free entry to Ukrainian citizens. Such negotiations are persistent, with each meeting with the representative of the European Union, these issues are raised. A meeting has recently been held in the Government, at which I would say the main actions of the Government that will contribute to this task. I hope that, within the time frame set by the President, we will meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u11	Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u12	Dear Nikolai Janović, the current authorities have recently been accused of defaming Ukrainian language and ignoring national cultural interests. It was difficult to say what was specifically said, but I would like to hear if there were any rules or guarantees in the draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u13	Absolutely. First of all, the law is based on the provisions of the Ukrainian Constitution, which clearly define the legal basis for the functioning of the State language in Ukraine. Second. The draft is based on the basic provisions of the European Charter. Thus, the fundamental provisions contained in the Constitution are supported by the relevant provisions of the Act. Well, what the opposition says is her right. Please, we accept all criticism perfectly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u14	Alla Alexander, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u15	Give the floor to Marmazov Evgenia Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u16	Eugene Marmaz's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u17	NikolaiJanovic, please say, please, this is what is meant by the term in article 7, I will read: “The transition from fiscal pre-investment-oriented privatization model”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u18	The point is very simple: to stop spending the money from privatizing the latrine of the state budget, and to channel this money to the modernization of the economy, to technical re-arms. Regrettably, we are now emerging from the debt impasse that the previous, previous government has left us. And this is a promising goal in the law. I think that from next year we will be able to balance all our costs and revenues and channel the income from privatization mainly to the investment component of our economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u19	National Deputy Vecerko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u20	Evening, Party Regions. The distinguished Nikolai Janović, of course, you are doing a great deal to work with the European community, and in terms of European integration, the Government is doing a lot in your head. Please tell me that you will continue to cooperate with the Committee on European Integration in the Supreme Council, which has a great deal of experience in this regard? And I think it will be very helpful in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u21	I have answered that question in practice. I can only reiterate that we are open to cooperation not only with the Committee of the Supreme Council, including with this Committee, but we are open to cooperation with all the opposition forces. We are prepared to consider at the Government meeting any proposals by the opposition political forces aimed at stabilizing the socio-economic situation of the country for the development of the country. Please, we are prepared to do so publicly, openly, with the invitation of all the sponsors of such proposals. We're open to it, and we're ready for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u22	Yes, the national deputy of Glazunov, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u23	Pass the word to Gorina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u24	Nikolai Janović, would you please tell us what priority steps are being taken to implement the pension reform?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u25	The pension reform, as you know, was launched on 1 January 2004. It was then postponed for a number of reasons. And today, yesterday, the President has issued a reform plan, including a major reform agenda for pension reform and the introduction of two additional pension levels. The transition, first, to personalized stockpiling accounts, well, and further steps towards reform. What is the main obstacle to reforms? This is a very serious imbalance in the Pension Fund. Suffice it to say that of the 190 billion expenditures of the Pension Fund, more than 60 billion are covered by direct grants from the State budget. This is now the main issue that the Government should address for about two or three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u26	Yes, Victor Terrence, faction of the Timoshenko Yuli Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u27	Thank you. Well, your intentions to address the issues that split society are noble, but first the replica. Why did you then sign the Kharkiv agreements that broke society? But it's a very different, specific question. Is the government responsible for the actions and statements of its ministers, that is, is there a consolidated position of government here? For example, while in Donetsk, the minister of education, who is fiercely struggling with education in Ukraine, stated in particular that school reform would be carried out and that rural schools would be cut short. Well, I think you realize that the disappearance of schools will lead to the disappearance of the village, cause a lot of problems. So the question is, is the reduction of rural schools a government position, is that Yanukovitch's position, or is it, I repeat, the undisturbed struggle of the education minister with Ukraine's education?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u28	We are open to the opposition for dialogue, but only if the opposition does not distort and distort the main policy of the Government. What did the Ministers mean by the need to reorganize small schools? He stated literally the following: would a school with 3-4 students and one teacher be able to give our schoolboy adequate education? Would a State be able to provide the necessary educational standards for such a school? Is it not better to look at the world experience, including the European way European countries are doing, considering the functioning of such small schools? So here we call on you, let's talk about this question, what are the best solutions? But the main thing here is how to raise the level of educational services provided to our rural schoolchildren? That's the point. And the last. As a result of the Minister's activities, we will judge, not by his statements, but by how the level of education services and the quality of education will change in real time. Then we'll tell you whether the Minister is in line or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u29	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u31	Fellow dignitaries, co-reported by two committees: the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please, from the committee. And who will speak from the Committee on Foreign Affairs? Then you'll have a separate thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u32	Dear Mikolo Janovich! Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Litvin, at its meeting held on June 2, 2010, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Internal and External Policy from June 1, 2010. [[Protocol No. 93/8]] In 2010, introduced by President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine and recognized as urgent. The committee notes that the bill proposes to determine the basic principles of both domestic and foreign policy. It is envisaged that such principles are based on the unconditional observance of the Constitution of Ukraine, ensuring human rights and freedoms in Ukraine and guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of the citizen, as enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine, on the principles and norms of international law in ensuring the social orientation of Ukraine's economy and Ukraine's continued social economic development, strengthening the democratic principles of social and state life, ensuring the rule of law, the economic and political independence of the State, protecting its national interests and establishing Ukraine as a full and authoritative member of the world society. Taking into account the high social profile of the state, the principles of internal policy are defined in the bill by appropriate areas, such as: the development of statehood, the development of local self-government and the promotion of regional development, the formation of civil society institutions, national security and defence, the economic sphere, environmental and technological security, social and humanitarian spheres. The Act also provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Security of Ukraine on the adjustment of certain aspects of the foreign policy course of the State. The Committees of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy and Health believe that the first reading of the bill may be based on a number of suggestions and observations to be taken into account when it is processed for second reading. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster also directed us to take into account our comments and suggestions. The Committee on Foreign Affairs sent a bill to redraft the subject of the law of the legislative initiative. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council in its conclusion of 02.06. In 2010, he made a number of comments and proposals for specific provisions of the bill. After hearing this question, the deputy head of the Committee, the First Deputy Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Emilianova, found out the positions of Ukrainian national deputies and committee members and discussed the issues, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the draft Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy to be adopted as a basis. [[vote: 9 – “yes”, 3 – “against”]] National deputies of Ukraine, members of the committee: Bondar, Klukkowski, Matvienko, stated a separate opinion on the bill and commissioned it to be announced at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the People's Deputy Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u33	The report has been completed. Please, Your Honor, ask a committee representative. Names are asked to be put on board by the people's deputies. Jaroslav Kendzer, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u34	Jaroslav Kendzer, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear reporter! For more information, see article
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u35	Turn on the microphone, please, Jaroslav Kendzior. Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u36	You've looked at this bill on the committee. Article 10 of this draft Law on the Principles of Internal Policy in the Humanities. Did not your committee members find, as it were, people thinking that would at least synchronize the first paragraph of article 10 with the Constitution? I quote: “Ensure the full development and functioning of Ukrainian language in all spheres of social life throughout Ukraine”. Why did you not succeed in adding “as a single national language” — what is mentioned in article 10 of the Constitution? And you were essentially comparing the national Ukrainian language that is defined by the Constitution with other languages: and the use, the guarantee of free development, the use of Russian and other languages of Ukrainian national minorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. We've had a lot of questions, committee members, and they've been asking reporters. And I'll tell you that none of the rapporteurs and members of the committee that voted "yes" deny that the Constitution has the highest legal power, these norms are defined in the Constitution. And so if we take it to the second reading, and you have suggestions, please, let's make suggestions, we're ready to look at them on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, for this reason, at the National Security and Defence Council meeting, when the draft of this law was being considered, it was precisely the suggestion that our colleague Jaroslav Kenziord made: to record as a national language, as required by the Constitution and the Constitutional Court. And all the members of the LNB agreed that when preparing for the second reading of this proposal, it would obviously be made by deputies, including colleague Jaroslav Kenzior and others, we would certainly consider it. JaroslavJojik, please, the faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u39	JaroslavJojik, Ukrainian People's Party. In 2003, with President Leonid Kuchma's initiative in support of the government of Viktor Yanukovic, in which the First Vice-Prime Minister was Mikola Janovich Azarov, the National Security Foundation Act was adopted, which envisioned taking a course for NATO. President Viktor Yanukovic's initiative in 2010 was to turn the state's 180-degree turn down from NATO. At a meeting of the Ukrainian National Security Council these days, it is clearly stated that further delay in resolving this issue poses a threat to the national security of our nation. Perhaps this is how the President's team conveys a kind of SOS to the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u40	Please complete the question. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u41	Perhaps in this way the President's team is passing on a kind of SOS to the Ukrainian people, which is intimidation, which is threats that are ultimatums. What do you know about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u42	Thank you for asking, and I want you to read very carefully article 11 of the Foreign Policy Principles, where one of the points clearly defines the position of Ukraine's non-blocking policy, which means Ukraine's non-participation in military and political alliances, its priority in improving and developing the European collective security system, continuing constructive cooperation with NATO and other military and political blocs on all issues of mutual interest. In this bill, we continue to reveal the essence of the Declaration of State Sovereignty. And I believe that our pre-election program, with which the President and our political power were involved, was implemented in foreign and internal politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u43	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u44	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of YuliaTimoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Of course, in recent times we have seen a process where the Supreme Council ceases to be the Supreme Council of Ukraine and becomes actually the subordinate body of the Cabinet of Ministers. I am interested in your committee, where as a result of the betrayal of several people who walked under other political flags, the majority of them appeared, and there are only three people who stand in the positions of those who were before. With whom they went to the Supreme Council. What observations did your committee make before this document? What do you see there that needs to be changed, added, or taken to make it better? Because not only the “goodness” but obviously the thoughtful work on the positions outlined in this document would improve it. If you just raise it like that, considering most of it, hands like you did, obviously it's wrong. What do you bring in extra good? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u45	I want to begin immediately with the answer that let's not talk about traitors, these are your former colleagues, and you brought them to Parliament. And to blame us for them, I don't think we should. So, if we're still -- I'm still going essentially -- we have a team that's ready to implement its programs, it's just, I think, for the Ukrainian community plus. We don't have a swan, we have cancer, we have a hammer, we have a team that works together, we have a government, we have a coalition that acts as one thing today, and it's our big advantage over yours. What about the offers? Yes, indeed, there are, there are, and we will bring them into the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u46	Have a seat, please. Time's up. On the committee, a number of deputies took note of their particular point of view. In accordance with the Rules, Anatoly Matvienko has the right to make a separate opinion other than that of the committee. Prepare a co-report from a committee in foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u47	Anatoly Matvienko, S.R.P., "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I have a mandate to express the opinion of a group of deputies, members of the committee who consider today's adoption of this law impossible, even in the first reading, and suggest that it be sent for further work, although it would be useful to withdraw only out of respect for the author of this bill. What is this group governed by, and why do we find it impossible to adopt the law today? First, this law is a law that is fastened, and it is declarative, except for the last 14 articles. And so we suggest that if there are any claims or initiatives regarding the Ukrainian National Security Fundamentals Act, make appropriate proposals to this law – and do not propose the absurdity that this law is, unfortunately, too. First. This law does not determine the subject of regulation today, or it is completely unclear. Preamble says that it is the subject of regulation. This law defines the principles of internal and external politics, and article 12 says that the principles are defined by other laws that are worked in close cooperation with the authorities. Thus, the author admits to these contradictions that the attempt to determine the principles of domestic and foreign policy is the only normative act that is legally difficult and virtually incorrect. The third thing you want to pay attention to is that article 14 gives this bill -- unprecedented -- some special status, which means that other laws only work in a part that does not conflict with that law. [[part of each other]] Under the Constitution, all laws are equal, and no law can be considered as the main law, and some law is secondary. This is an unconstitutional norm, then it cannot be accepted for this reason. Four. This law does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine in that novel, where Parliament is given additional powers to implement the principles of domestic and foreign policy. This is the second norm that is unconstitutional in relation to this law. Fifth. In addition to duplicating the individual principles enshrined in the Constitution, the project contains a number of absurd provisions, particularly on the completion of political reform, the removal from the operation of the Chernobyl AES, which has long been removed. [[What is it? No one knows.]] And the last thing I want to say is, I condemn politics “the worse” as an opposition, but I condemn the policy of the treaty. I'm talking to Mikli Janovich. Mikolo Janovich, this law has nothing to do with the work of the government. And today, by representing him, you are demonstrating the policy of the treaty. Moreover, I don't even know why the Prime Minister isn't sitting in the Prime Minister's chair, which is a chair released for whom, for the President? We already have the President's government today. Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u48	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u49	Vladimir Mikhailovich, release your chair, let this be the President's chair, we'll have the President's Supreme Council. The monopoly drives all of us to rebirth. I don't want us to fight. But I'm in favour of having control to be reasonable, otherwise we'll have trouble in the state, including with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, let me give you some help. Initially, it was recorded in the National Security and Defence Council's proposals to report this bill to the Ukrainian President's representative at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I have asked the President of Ukraine to make this report by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, this is an expression of respect for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Let's welcome that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, let's not focus on such details, talk about the content, about what our colleague was talking about. Dear colleagues, from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, please, Taras Cnerwell, the first deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow national MPs, I will only take a very brief look at our committee's decision. The committee has made a preliminary procedural decision: to consider, by and large, only the part that relates to international policy, because the principles of foreign and domestic policy automatically foresee that the external part, in fact, is balanced internally and is equally relevant to it. We have come up with a great deal of both professional and political claims. Political, in fact, the main point was whether it was worth paying attention to today, when the question of NATO's accession was not based on NATO's readiness to accept Ukraine, nor on the reason that most of Ukraine's population today did not support this idea, was there an urgent need right now, when there was a rather serious social tension, to bring this issue up for consideration? Other experts, on the other hand, took up the main part of the discussion. We had a lot of pretenses. I really want to hope that they'll be settled before second reading, but the claims that the document is old enough, especially in matters of foreign policy and national security and defence, it's unbalanced in this regard, it doesn't answer very many questions. In particular, we raised the question of how can we say in political principles that our goal is an off-block status? If we want to be outside the blocks, we have to say that, in that case, Ukraine is today a de facto non-block state, but we're setting ourselves a goal, and this is a task for the Supreme Council in terms of legislative work, and for the Cabinet of Ministers, and for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, first of all, to seek in the world for Ukraine's future to recognize the status of active neutrality. We have one of three choices: the ODCB, NATO, or active neutrality. Nonlock status cannot be a factor of a goal, a goal, this is a factor in our suspension today. And we've made some very serious points about that. We have similarly criticized a number of provisions in which the tasks of Parliament, in our view, have not been properly presented. In particular, standards such as parliamentary diplomacy, which is being actively applied worldwide today, which is being actively conducted by the Ukrainian Parliament today, but which has not been reflected in the concept, have been completely ignored. So our warnings, they were all about the many things that Anatoly Matviyenko presented today. As a result, when voting on the committee, the distribution of votes went as follows: two people felt that it was necessary for the bill to be adopted, supported by the Supreme Council, and nine members of the committee said that the draft was to be finalized. From myself, I just want to go to the profile committee with a very serious request, because we see, of course, that the first-reading project is going to be adopted, let's make sure that all the textual and technical problems are corrected before the second reading. I'm just calling on the Supreme Council and especially the profiling committee to work very actively for the second reading. And that's exactly what I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers to do. I understand that the political aspect, which is fixed on the issue of non-blocking and the actual rejection of NATO, is going to be fixed because it is actually not the main objective for which this document was submitted in such a hurry. And there's no way to get past it. But I have, and from me, I think, and from the committee members, a colossal request, let's make sure that for this document, when it's finally accepted, it's not embarrassing. In order to avoid the knowledge of the Chernobyl station from the exploitation, that Parliament's mandate there should be defined exactly as it should be, so that where the President's role is itself clear, it is not known why it is written by the LRA, which does not have its own decisions, which are imposed solely by the President's instructions, so it cannot appear on its own in such a document. Let's make sure that this document, even with those political problems, is already, I see, not a minute, in five or six years, we can go back to this subject, but not to be, at least for us, ashamed of our technical problems. Once again, the position of the committee of ten votes against two was to reject the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, a question to the first deputy committee. Please sign up for the question. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National Deputy Fomin, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u53	I give the floor to the deputy of Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u54	Pavlovsky's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Taras, please tell me again, specify the committee's decision, the Committee's decision in foreign matters was to send the author to redraft the bill or to reject it. And secondly, as you refer to the second article of the Final Orders that put this bill above another bill. This is a violation of the Constitution, there can't be one law above another, even so important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u56	Dear colleague, I literally read out the committee's decision. But I remind you, our committee isn't in charge, we're responsible, because foreign policy here is also balanced with the internal committee, we've passed on our position to the Main Committee, but we're going to vote on the decision of the Main Committee by Alexander Alexander Omelchenko. Ours reads: “The committee at its meeting on 2 June 2010 considered the draft of the Ukrainian Law on Internal and Foreign Policy, introduced by President Viktorovich Yanukovitch of Ukraine, and approved recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should return its subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. Results of the “yes” to 9 members of the committee, against - 2. With respect to the head of the Committee, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus.” This is an official document, and I introduced it to you today. As for the position you're talking about, we've also drawn attention to it, and that's what I'm asking of myself personally, both the government, and the profile committee, let's do everything in the second reading, let's do what's politically resolved for the next five or six years, but not to make such a mistake. It's really, I think it's a mistake, you can fix it to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u57	OlegZarubinsky, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u58	Thank you. OlegZarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear reporter, there's a problem that's on the verge of both international politics and foreign issues and the internal one. It's a migration problem, and you know very well about it. It is an issue of international relations, social politics, economic politics, cultural politics, medicine, and so forth. Please tell me if the committee was looking at a hypothetical amendment or addition to a second reading, which would refer to the fact that there was a real state migration service in Ukraine, because today this extremely complex and universal problem is being dealt with by almost seven, maybe ten, and as a result, we see that there are serious problems. That's a question of content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u59	Dear Mr. Leže, one of the members of our committee has left out items that, in our view, must be reflected in the document, and are not reflected in this text, this is the fact that this direction is not regulated. By the time the previous relevant documents were written in 2000, as I recall, in 2006, the problem had not yet been taken seriously in Ukraine, although it already existed. Apparently, sadly, many of the points have been out of line since then and are still unaccounted for. I would recommend here, because, both ours and your committee in this situation, in an equivalent position, and we, and you as committee members, national deputies, can submit our proposals and observations to the profile committee, I would ask that in this case, where you are absolutely competent to have these comments and suggestions offered by members of your committee. And we're going to work very seriously on the amendments and proposals for second reading that apply to foreign policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u60	Stanislaw Arzzewitin, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u61	May I have a word with you, Deputy Matchuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u62	National MP Matchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u63	Thank you. Matsuk, "Our Ukraine". Tarasse Vejacheslavovich, in article 11, there is a definition such as “prevention of conflicts in regions bordering Ukraine and settlement of existing conflicts”. I hope Ukraine is not going to do it the way Russia did in Abkhazia or Ossetia. And because do you not think that this definition needs to be complemented by the words “extremely peaceful diplomatic methods”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u64	I'd put it a little differently. There are other situations that relate to national security and defence and the first chapter of the basic principles where the use of the Ukrainian army is highlighted. And there's a very clear question that the Ukrainian army can't do aggression, well, I'm speaking in very simplified form. So that's the question that you're saying, it's settled. I have another question. Not recently, and in fact, for several years now, the definition of today’s President, then the leader of the opposition, who insisted that all conflicts were frozen, all territorial conflicts must be resolved at the level of the United Nations with the maximum possible effect of its influence. And I was talking about this particular thesis by Viktor Yanukovich here, too, that Ukraine would appeal to the United Nations in all its conflicts. Plus, I've personally given a warning thesis that “only on our borders”. On our borders alone, this is the land of Transnistria and the maritime border is Abkhazia. So are the others. Aren't we worried about Kosovo? And we're going to Africa, we don't have to define ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u65	Thank you, sit down, please. Time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the bill. Please sign up for the factions. Factions, please. Yes, your name, please. Now I'm asking you to sign up. May I have the names of the people's deputies, please? Sergey Grynevetsky, please. Dear colleagues! Calm down, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues! I'd like to express the position of the Lithuanian Block faction on the issue under consideration. By accepting such an important document for our state, I would say that the President was more likely to come out to determine the meaning of both internal and foreign policy and what purpose we would pursue. As far as external dimension is concerned, it's obviously pragmatism and predictability, in internal politics, it's improving the quality of life. The most important positive points that I would like to describe are, first and foremost, the focus on the implementation and empowerment of the Constitution, the principle of the rule of law, the guarantee of citizens' rights and freedoms, the protection of national interests. It is very important, in my view, to note what is being done to preserve the parliamentary-presidential form of government and to strengthen the principles of parliamentaryism. An important aspect, we think, is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u67	Sergei Rafailovich, one minute. Dear colleagues, obviously, we need the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Politics. How many screams, groanings, and now no one wants to listen. Do we need a trial? Should we perhaps discuss a bill? Well, respect each other. Please, Sergey Raphaelovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u68	Thank you. I'd like to point out that the bill clearly outlines the course for active neutrality, which is the programming principle of the Lithuanian Block. In my opinion, it would be more clear in the bill to write and position regarding the Russian Federation as a strategic partner and the United States of America as a strategic partner. Directions in which internal policy principles are to be implemented are generally laid out and usually do not give rise to objections. Although some important issues of national life have not been reflected. In such a document, taking into account the political situation in the state, it is important to note that the State, in accordance with the Constitution, will not impose any ideology on society. More specifically, with reference to the relevant positions of the Constitution, to put forward positions on language policy issues, to emphasize the non-acceptance of any privileges or pressures by language signs. This also applies to interfaith issues, such as the question of the only local church.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u69	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u70	Because these questions are discussed extensively in the community. The problem of overcoming division, consolidating society, establishing tolerance, tolerance in internal life is one of the most current today, and it should be reflected in such a document. In our view, the project needs a more well-balanced edition, including the definition of the principles of internal foreign policy under the Constitution, referred to as the exclusive competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And here's something to work on in order to correct article 12. In general, the faction “Block of Lithuania” proposes to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u71	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Boris Tarasyuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, today we are considering the draft law that was to be passed 14 years ago, because the Constitution of Ukraine required the adoption of the legislative principles of Ukraine's internal and external policies. We're making it happen. And today, when considering this draft law on first reading, I want to confirm that the Company's faction will vote in favour of first reading. But in preparing for the second reading, we believe that we must take into account the very serious proposals that society today has put before us as a requirement and a condition for the lives of our citizens. Therefore, the constitutional provisions relating to human rights in this law must be a certain guide in the formation of the legislative field and, of course, require those in power and those who today ensure the development of laws and those who work in the structures of power to do so. What today requires specificization in the definition of the main directions? How will the constitutional situation of the human right to work, the right to pay, the right to a decent pension, the right to housing, the right to free education, by the way, which is clearly enshrined in the Constitution? How does a State in the legislative field exercise the right to free medical care, which is also defined by the Constitution? We believe that there is a very serious need to finalize the draft law on the key issues that our society shares. Not only should the declaration of the extra-block status of our State clearly state the mechanism for resolving this problem, which has disintegrated society. I believe that it is imperative to write out the procedure that all contentious issues in society are resolved only by a referendum. As is the question of the second state status of the Russian language, the question of Ukraine's participation in the Single Economic Area, the participation of our country in the Customs Union, as well as cooperation with NATO, the Collective Security Treaty Organization. All these problems stand before us for one day, before the Government, before the Supreme Council, but unfortunately they do not find a solution. The law must be clearer from the point of view of borders in the preparation of laws and in the work of the same officials when we talk about the activities of banks, both public and commercial, on foreign loans. Either agree with the IMF's political requirements or have a clear position on what credit policy should be. Functioning of different forms of property. By the way, I'm addressing you, distinguished colleagues. We have a collective form of property eliminated, and it must be. The same as joining various international organizations. Conditions shall be laid down. Or it's GUAM.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u73	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u74	Or the World Trade Organization. What constitutes the economic basis of our State's independence and how it should be determined. This is also the direction of energy, food and technological security. I mean, as you can see, there's a lot of problems. And not all of these problems we find the project in this project. But on first reading, it must be accepted. In finalizing and preparing for second reading, take into account the proposals made by the Company's faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u75	Boris Tarasyuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Anatholia Kinakh will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u76	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", which expresses in the Supreme Council the thoughts of Ukrainians with common sense and national consciousness. As far as our faction is concerned, the faction opposes another violation of the Law of the Rules, as was the case with the ratification of the Treaty of the Black Sea Fleet with Russia and the adoption of the 2010 budget. In essence, the document is superficial and demagogic. The main objective is to remove the status of NATO membership, which is the main purpose of this document. So called, non-blocking makes Ukraine vulnerable to external threats. How Ukraine prepares to protect itself by increasing its security, the figures show that in Ukraine, 25 dollars are spent on defence, 606 dollars per inhabitant is spent on one inhabitant in non-block Sweden. So compare whether Ukraine is capable of protecting itself. The only guarantee of our national security is participation in the collective security system, which is the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, on which the Supreme Council has repeatedly taken decisions. I would like to warn the authors of this bill that you will not be able to comment on how Ukraine will move from the subject of international relations to the object of international relations, nonG-20, but subject to the interests of the Eastern neighbouring State. Our faction opposes the procedure for considering the bill and its contents and suggests that it be sent for further work. We support the position adopted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council and the Committee on European Integration. With regard to the Committee on European Integration. So let me inform you as chairman of the committee that yesterday the committee considered this bill and noted it as superficial and declarant in defining the principles of foreign policy compared to the current decision on the main orientations of Ukraine's foreign policy. We sent this bill to the Scientific and Experimental Council of the Committee on European Integration. In conclusion, I want to say that attempts to push a provocative document in the Supreme Council, which is conceptual in nature, are an example of disregard for the Constitution, the laws and interests of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u77	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u78	The same country is being transformed into a colony and a satellite of a neighboring state. We condemn the actions of the new authority to disregard Ukraine's national interests for the sake of the eastern neighbour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I urge you not to make a variety of accusations regarding violations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Everything happens according to the Rules and Procedures. If you had suggested another procedure for dealing with this issue, the Supreme Council of Ukraine would have considered it. To begin with, I recommend that those who speak kill the Supreme Council, read the Rules, and then evaluate them accordingly. Please, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up will be Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u80	Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! The main objective of the foundation of a national idea, which unites everyone regardless of political color, is to create an irrevocable environment for Ukraine’s development as a democratic, modern, competitive state. In the world, there will be fierce competition for economic and political space. And in this competition, only consolidated states that in internal and external space are able to protect national interests, which, on the basis of long-term strategies, create conditions for the development of competitiveness, the high quality of citizens' lives. The whole world recognizes the high potential of Ukraine: intellectual, human, industrial, natural, geographical. And at the same time, we determine that the recent periods of the Ukrainian people, the state as a whole, have become hostages to the opposition in power, the absence of consolidated action in internal and external space. This led to Ukraine’s completion of 2009 with the worst indicators in Europe, the loss of energy security, and so on. Structural reforms have been blocked. On the basis of the foregoing, we have to understand clearly that the law of the basis of internal, external policy is our unique opportunity to create conditions for the formation of a long-term development strategy for Ukraine, which is consistent with our national economic, political interests, to create conditions for the consolidation of society, the state, to carry out these tasks, to strengthen Ukraine's international authority as a predictable, reliable, predictable partner, irrespective of the direction of “west” or “east”. And these tasks can be accomplished only through united efforts of branches of government, society. We are confident that today, more than ever, we need to focus our efforts on the implementation of these provisions, starting with the active participation of Ukraine in the creation of a modern system of European, global collective security. A clear programme for the development and financing of this development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the completion of modern land relations, the continuation of the formation of civil society institutions -- and this is all that will shape our confidence tomorrow. So we urge you to support the Law on the Fundamentals of External and Internal Policy as the first step towards consolidating all the political will, intelligence and development of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u81	Mikola Tomenko, Timoshenko Street. Vladimir Moses will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I'm not inclined to absoluteize symbols, but just as nature has responded to our hall, it's probably a sign that we can't be too sharp about changing the country's strategy, the state -- and telling the Ukrainian people one year that we're moving to the left, and another year we're going to turn it to the right. Obviously, a document of such a strategic nature requires the maximum involvement of experts, experts, society, not just officials and even opposition. In view of this, I believe that the mechanism for discussing this bill must be exactly as we are discussing the Constitution or some kind of strategic document. It's an ideological moment. It's very interesting to me. I've systematically analyzed this bill. And I think the document's ideology is liberal, with an emphasis on key liberal values, starting with the expansion of private property and private property to the ground. And I'm interested in the support of the left side of the room. Perhaps they too are more evolved into liberal values because they decided to vote in favour of the bill. The bill is very European. That's the number of terms I haven't met in a long time. And it's a surprise to me, too, because we recently adopted another document: the government's socio-economic development programme -- which was, in a mild sense, exactly the opposite of ideology, it was a document more social and oriented towards cooperation with the SND, with Russia. And let me tell you that today we are discussing a document on the principles of internal and external policy, where the word “Russia”, “SND” is never mentioned. Maybe the ideology of the new team has changed, and maybe there's another move that I don't understand. The very important point he wanted to pay attention to is that in humanitarian politics, as for me, evolution is positive. Let me remind you again of our discussion of the socio-economic development agenda. I suggested that we move the constitutional standards into the document: the development of Ukrainian language, the promotion of Ukrainian culture. None of my amendments were supported. Thus, the government is now following a socio-economic development programme where there is no mention of the Ukrainian people, Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian history. Instead, in the principles of internal and foreign policy, which the President has put forward, I think is quite bold, and I think it rightly focuses on the importance of the Ukrainian nation and its development, the Ukrainian culture and its dignity. And the changes are as positive for me as they are for the government document, mainly the emphasis. It was about national education, culture. It's hard to say what it is, but in the document that we are discussing today, it's European terminology: national education, national culture, and I also appreciate it positively. It's very important to me that if the President goes to this Europeanization of his approaches, he obviously has to inform the officials, because some officials are speaking. If you'll excuse me for another 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u83	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u84	The statements of some officials today directly contradict this document that we are considering. Well, let's say in a new question: if the official speaks and says that we're going to include two national languages or two languages in the court system, it's directly in conflict with the document that we're considering today. If the official says that in the education system we will do so, the document says we will act in accordance with the principles of the Bologna Process. So to my deep conviction, there are positive things in this document, but once again, we need to translate it into a systematic serious conversation. We're not ready to vote for a strategic document today, because I think that the foundations of internal and external politics are too responsible to be taken lightly. So I think, systematically, seriously, professionally, we need to approach this bill. Our faction will not vote for the principles of internal and external politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the factions are over. Presentations by the National Deputies for 30 minutes. Instead of Vladimir Moysik, Viacheslav Kirilenko And since Viacheslav Kirilenko is also listed, six minutes, please. John the Rabbit will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u86	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Zakrain's deputy group. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! This bill has several showcases. They are scattered throughout the text, but they come under the eyes of a considerate reader. For example, there is no reference to Ukrainian as the only national language in the text. In the Constitution, it seems that no one objects officially to this. In preparing the bill, however, it was mentioned that Ukraine was the only state. And I can offer you a further scenario that's going to be with all of this. Next are the bill of referendum. And one of those bills clearly states that both laws and the new constitution can be passed directly without the Supreme Council. And it's going to be said, good people, look here we've adopted the foundations and the principles of internal politics and no mention of Ukrainian as the only Ukrainian language they have. And so in this way, in reference to this law, it's going to go to a referendum when the new authorities and Viktor Janukovic will quickly introduce the new Constitution. This is the first moment. One second. It is said that no one is going to give up a gas transport system. Why is it not mentioned that the Ukrainian gas transport system is the acquisition of the Ukrainian people, its alienation and transfer to other states is prohibited? This is a strategic document -- the principles of internal and external politics. There is no mention of this, although the whole society debates this subject, every day conflicting messages from Moscow and Kiev, and we know that negotiations are going well. This is the same for all other strategic sectors of the Ukrainian economy that are liquid, that work, that bring income to the budget right now. And the third moment. I have the impression that this bill would be called "ANTNATO," because here at the end of this table is a comparative table amending the law since 2003, where there is Euro-Atlantic integration. It offers extra-blocking. All right, let's assume that we're off-limits, so be fair, and why isn't it written in your principles, the honourable government officials, who, after 2042, the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation leaves the sovereign Ukrainian territory after 2042? And where is the same blockage, when we are now dependent on one of the countries whose armies are long in our territory and will live forever according to your policy. At the same time, you write, as you write, article 11 “External policy principles”: “Ukraine, as a European non-lock state, is pursuing open foreign policy, avoiding dependence on individual states”. So where do you avoid addiction? In every decision you make, in every government day you have, you have a strong economic and geopolitical dependence on the Russian Federation. Hence, declarations and words differ. And this group “For Ukraine! ” is very concerned. There will be a letter today. I am convinced that a good text will be written and even well read. But that doesn't mean that Janukovic and the team will act according to these texts, and this is it, and that today as a message will be published to the Ukrainian people, because practice points to something else. The words about democracy and the protection of human rights, and in fact, the Harkowieecologists go up to the trees to preserve the tree and the park through which the harkians walk, and some people cut down the tree with the man and the man falls. People go to protest to the authorities, they get beaten with sticks and taken to the catalogue, and words and practices differ with actions. Next. Shevchenków Ryviddill, the whole world is talking about it. People have been killed, and that's only what's now known through the media. There's been a wave of protests all over the country, and the main thing is that nothing happened, no reactions on the line of executive power, so specific that discipline would be given and someone would answer. None. It is good that at least a human rights commissioner admitted that it was murder and should be held accountable. So we're talking about the standards of democracy. And today in the Palace “Ukraine” will be said again, and the practice is quite different, to say exactly, directly, the opposite. Next. It's said that no one's going to twist the tree, that there's going to be freedom and prosperity, that it's going to be okay, and you don't touch this power, it hasn't done anything yet. Again, today this will be a message in the Palace “Ukraine”, there are political forces that do not agree with the ruling course, and no one has yet banned disagreements with the ruling course. Because when a respected government was in opposition, it had the right to demonstrate its lack of perception of previous policies wherever and whenever. Today, the party “For Ukraine!” is conducting a drink of this letter from Yanukovic. At night, the court is already ordering a court order. For what? For 50 people to come out and demonstrate disagreement with the course? Are you forbidding us to do this already? Should we just be supportive? The question is, what standards of democracy can you talk about in that case? We're still going to be doing this, not because we're so brave, but because we're expressing the opinion of millions of people who disagree with the course of command and no written texts change the situation until the authorities really start to listen to the opposite, a different thought and interact with that large part of the Ukrainian people that doesn't agree with the anti-Ukrainian course of the current ruling coalition. It'll be different, so there'll be tension. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u87	John the Rabbit, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Next is Anatoly Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u88	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Respectable compatriots! The emergence of the draft Law on the Principles of Foreign and Internal Policy in the proposed edition eloquently indicates that the ruling authority: President Yanukovic, the government and the ruling majority, the parliamentary, finally turned into a tool of Kremlin power for the destruction of Ukraine as a state. That is the conclusion of anyone who reads the bill impartially. This initiative of the President dismantles the European choice of Ukrainians and affirms the policy of Eurasianism. President Janukovic and the government not only refused to join NATO, but opened the door to participation in the military Tashkent bloc led by Russia. Article 11 of the bill refers to the continuation of constructive cooperation with others other than NATO by military and political blocs. What kind of national MPs do you know on Euro-Atlantic space, military blocks other than NATO? That's right, Tashkentsky. As a result, Yanukovic and the government are offered, not an off-block status, but an integration into a military bloc headed by Russia. What kind of blockage can we talk about when the ruling authorities continue to stay in the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine until the 42nd year and allow Russia's special forces to enter their territory? So this bill is called on to rip Ukraine out of Zevroazi. To tear Ukraine out of European space and isolate it from the democratic world, to turn it to the East, where there is no prospect for the Ukrainian nation. I demand you to tell the truth that the implementation of the security situation will lead to our children fighting again for the Russian interests of the world, particularly in the Caucasus. This bill is the execution of the Kremlin's will. In accordance with the existing Rules, the National Security Principles Act cannot be amended by this bill. Please enter separately. No, you broke that law. Whoever votes in favour of this law should know that you are disarming Ukraine before challenges, new challenges, such as cyber attacks, such as terrorism, which cannot be prevented together without NATO. I urge you not to vote for this bill. Examine it, it's about Ukraine working in the implementation of the European security system. There is no such security system. In Euro-Atlantic space, there's one system of collective security: it's NATO, and everyone's in favor, even Russia, and you're out of it. You're talking about going to the European Union, but with good neighbourly relations with Russia. Russia has told us that you are not going to NATO because you are not cooperating with us, and now you have transferred this formula to membership in the European Union. So you're calling us out of the European Union as well. So let's be honest: in a legal way, this bill is actually anti-constitutional, read.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u89	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u90	This bill is anti-constitutional, read the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority; and politically, it is a bill that destroys the Ukrainian state. And in the second reading, you'll see. So don't vote for him!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u91	Mikhaylo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next will be the Final One.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u92	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! 20 years ago, the Declaration on Sovereignty was adopted, where Ukraine's unblocked status was a key subject. 20 years ago, the people of Ukraine were looking forward to the arrival of a real people's president, a real people's government, a real people's parliament, who would read the Declaration of Sovereignty and exercise legislative non-block status. I mean, the real People's President has come and will be granted extra-block status. The strategic foreign policy vector is clearly defined, it is constant, we maintain continuity, it is a course of Euro-integration. But we are realists and we are well aware that, in order to minimize both financial and economic and temporary costs on our way to Europe, we must make maximum use of the potential of our normal good-neighbourly trade and economic relations, political relations with our main strategic partner, Russia. We clearly state that this issue is not on the agenda because the people do not want to join NATO. At the same time, however, we make clear and will pursue the path to maximum cooperation, to participate in various forms of cooperation with NATO, taking into account our national interests, where we will receive economic dividends. Our main strategic partners are Russia and the United States of America. We will abandon the failed former foreign policy course that divided all countries into its enemies. The attempt to make Russia an enemy has resulted in enormous economic damage. Instead of $40, which was purchased five years ago, it reached 300 from 12.4 per cent of GDP growth in the fourth year, reaching a 15 per cent drop last year. We will build normal relations with all countries, taking into account our national interests. This will give us economic dividends for the country. The Harkov Agreement has been converted into $40 billion in life-saving investments needed to modernize our economy and improve our competitiveness. In conclusion, the adoption of this bill would allow: the first would accelerate Ukraine's integration into Europe; the second would increase the amount of economic dividends received for the country and, finally, the third would significantly strengthen our State sovereignty on the basis of this. I therefore call upon all those who advocate for the strengthening of true State sovereignty, which cannot be without the economic power of the country, and the economic power of the country is based on normal relations with all countries, and especially with Russia, to support this bill and to vote for the country's true political sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u93	The final one passes on the right to speak to the national deputy for the evening. Please. IMankowski, that's four minutes. Finally, Mankovsky is handing over the right to speak to Supper - 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u94	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to thank those present for the attention given to reforming and prioritizing cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union. Today, we can confidently say that all three branches of government are working in sync and properly. The relevance of the issues raised has increased further in the presidential elections in Ukraine. The formation of a new Government has led to a review of both domestic and external State policies. This week, the President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, announced the launching of the first phase of economic reforms, social, humanitarian and legal situations in the country. The main challenges have been identified and long-term and short-term mechanisms for overcoming them have been identified. This law will define the principles of Ukraine's internal policy in the areas of State development, local self-government, the establishment of civil society institutions in the social, humanitarian spheres, and the principles of Ukraine's foreign policy, i.e. multilateralism. Among the main principles of State foreign policy, the bill proposes to consolidate Ukraine's full participation in pan-European and regional collective security systems, membership in the European Union, while maintaining good-neighbourly relations and strategic partnership with the Russian Federation and other countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States. It is clear that the implementation of an effective foreign policy of Ukraine should balance its domestic policies, improve the standard of living of Ukrainian citizens and social protection. Education and medicine in our country must conform to the standards of the European community. In other words, strong power is a healthy society. Much, I am sure, we can learn from the countries of the European community in the field of insurance. Today, the medical situation in Ukraine is very difficult. The best possible experience of the countries of the European Union in the area of insurance medicine must be taken away and implemented in our country. According to the cost indicator for the health of every Ukrainian citizen, there are 111 seats among the 190 countries around the world. In regions and rural areas, citizens strongly claim that they do not have medical care because local clinics do not have basic diagnostic equipment, let alone medicines. The constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to free medical care was left with nothing but an idea. Of course, in this situation, both the medical community and the citizens have high hopes for insurance medicine and a compulsory guaranteed emergency medical care for every Ukrainian citizen. From this, the people of Ukraine expect a great deal of change from our authority. In addition, it was logical to divide the health system in Ukraine into three areas: so-called municipal medicine, which would provide services to pensioners, underprivileged citizens; university clinics, as it is done and works abroad, which would be financed by the State and 50 per cent by universities and businesses and insurance. Such a system, as I know, works in many European countries and can be implemented in Ukraine. And that can be done quickly and quite successfully by our Government. I think there are many areas in which cooperation, exchange of experience, mutual support for initiatives can produce real results for both Ukraine and the countries of the European Community. That is why, I hope, we will use opportunities to get closer, given the commonity of our strategic objectives. Most importantly, I would like to draw attention to the need to support this bill. This bill contains true, real thoughts of cooperation with countries of independent States, with our neighbours, with countries of the European Community, where we can gain great economic and social benefits for our State. That is why the Government is on the right track. The president's 100 days. And he showed, and today, how he has such an examination that he is passing this programme on to the real for the development of our Ukraine. This programme will bring real benefits, real benefits. And I ask the deputies of all factions and opposition, all of them literally, we are a single State. And I ask you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u95	JaroslavJojik, the right to speak is given to him by Yuri Kostenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u96	JaroslavJojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to remind the Ukrainian society and today's coalition that it was from the initiative of President Leonid Kuchma, a man who recently appeared in this sessional room that was met with a violent applause from today's coalition, and with the support of then Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic, that was introduced and supported in the Supreme Hall by the National Security Foundation Act, which envisions ensuring Ukraine's participation in NATO. Obviously, this is the approach that corresponds to the strategic Ukrainian national interests, and this is the way that all the Eastern European states that we're trying to equalize. These nations have been members of NATO for many years, and their security has been assured for many years. In 2010, already from President Yanukovic's initiative, we see a change of 180 degrees in the course of the Ukrainian state. At the National Security Council, however, it is clearly stated that further delay in the matter poses a threat to our nation’s national security. The question is: "And what has happened in the last days, in the last months, what needs to be done to change the course of our state?" Perhaps this is how the President's team conveys a kind of susos, which is a threat, which is intimidation, which is ultimatums. Obviously, if this is really happening, the Ukrainian society should know that. Therefore, the Ukrainian People's Party demands that today's authorities inform Ukrainian society of the true motives for abandoning the Ukrainian nation's strategic previous course that we are witnessing today. At the same time, I would like to remind members of today's coalition of warnings by the same Leonid Kuchma, a man who continues to be an undisputed authority for most of you, in no way from a candid woman to resolve issues that have been problematic for many years. That's why the Ukrainian People's Party is calling.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u97	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u98	So to conclude, the Ukrainian People's Party and the faction “Our Ukraine” urge you not to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u99	Thank you. Andrew Schlell, Julia Timishenko Faction. Next is Leonid Kojara instead of Korj.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u100	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, the distinguished Presidency, the distinguished radio audiences, the television set! Of course, this bill, it's on one side, it's kind of a milestone in Ukrainian modern history, and on the other hand, like any bill, it can always be changed. So far, this is not an irreversible change, but it is another attempt, an emphasis, another attempt to divide, disintegrate and destroy Ukraine, that is the goal of the work of today’s authorities, and that is all they are doing, and that is clearly what they are doing. So what do we have on the way out? Here we have a bill that only two lines have been changed, written that is not written, I don't say anymore, I'm going to stand on this separately, but that the integration of Ukraine into European, political, economic and legal space and Euro-Atlantic security space has been eliminated. Let me remind you, Euro-Atlantic security space. We live between the Atlantic and the Pacific. Any defence entity that is to be formed in these areas, Ukraine will not have the right to participate under this law. I'm not talking about NATO anymore. Here it is decided that the Order of the Kremlin has been received and, I think it will have to be carried out, because, if the elders have said, only “Est” should be answered here. And we realize that that's the answer. But you just think about it this way, you're just limiting the ability of the Ukrainian state. And to talk about what you are for European integration, for integration into the European Union, you can talk about it here in Brussels, but you can't take any steps in this direction and you won't. This is a simple example of the quality of the proposed bill. Please, article 12, “Definition and implementation of internal and external policy principles”, states the second part: “the principles of internal and external policy defined by this law should be taken into account in the drafting of legislative and other legislative acts”. I would suggest that I write, and whoever doesn't, that's why they shot or, there, life imprisonment. Because that's how you deprive members of the legislative initiative. I understand that this bill has hardly been read by anyone, especially the Party of Regions, because it is something to read "right bills". But you can read it because each of your drafts has to be tested whether it fits these ambushes or not. And the next. When you say that there are other social things involved, don't forget that you're deceiving people because you're manipulating a tariff network and you're depriving people of $300 in this bill. You're here taking 300 bracelets and the prospect of joining Ukraine into Euro-Atlantic choice. Here's your job.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u101	Leonid Kojara, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u102	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! We understand all the emotions that opposition is showing today, but I think we have to agree that today, without exaggerating the historical moment. The Supreme Council is to adopt a fundamental document – the principles of Ukraine's internal and external policy, which the Ukrainian people have been waiting for for 14 years, in fact, with the approval of the Constitution of Ukraine. I also think it's an unforgivable coincidence that President Viktor Yanukovic has submitted this bill to Parliament for consideration. This is another testimony that there is an effective interaction in Ukraine today with the legislative and executive branches of government, and the only powerful and professional team under the leadership of our President is in power. This bill is not another program of government action, it is, if you want, a real constitution of principles that will live and develop Ukraine in the near future and beyond, as a peace-loving European democratic and social state. It should also be noted that there is an enormous social need to adopt the principles of Ukrainian life. We can no longer live in conditions where laws are passed on to the needs of populist tavus political interests, and the state throws in all directions depending on the whims of its leaders. The principles of Ukraine’s foreign policy were adopted for the last time in 1993, when Ukraine was in fact a nuclear power and the European Union and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe had not yet existed at all. Clearly, for the past five years, the leadership of the State has been extremely comfortable to make foreign policy decisions based only on its own preferences, ignoring the interests and requirements of legislation, which in some cases had no clear wording. As a result, it's actually divided in half of Ukraine, stopping the state from participating in important Euro-Integration processes, self-isolation from the rest of the world. Today we are honestly and openly formulating one of the priorities of Ukraine's foreign policy: our non-block status, which means its non-participation in military and political alliances. At the same time, our non-blocking is not archaic neutrality, or non-acquisition, or self-isolation of Ukraine from the integration processes around us. This is an active position on the creation of a new European security architecture, cooperation with existing collective defence organizations, including NATO and the ODCB. We are convinced that this very clear position is the real national interest of Ukraine, which will contribute to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u103	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u104	Artificially blown up by politicians in our society will help improve its positive image in Europe and the world as a whole. This also means that Ukraine is not going to be friends with one another, it will be better placed in the modern politics of the leading nations of the world, and it will accelerate European integration. In view of the above, I propose to adopt the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the closing statement is given by Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u106	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the discussion that has just taken place in this room, I am sure you will agree, has demonstrated the urgency of the development and approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy. I would like to stress once again that the content and form of this document has a strategic and conceptual character that will allow us to define the ideology of reforms in Ukraine in the medium and long term. Of course, like any bill, it's not perfect. Therefore, your comments and suggestions will allow it to be improved. We are looking forward to supporting the entire bill on internal and external policy principles and operational work by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a view to its final approval as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u107	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion. The bill is extremely sensitive and clear that we should not treat it as a ritual, as a necessity to carry out a constitutional provision. Clearly, this document testifies to the world - wide principles of authority. And, of course, he will study carefully not as much in Ukraine as outside Ukraine. It is proud that this bill is called upon to determine the directional milestones, a field in which authorities can walk without going out of this field. And we need to do everything, fellow believers, to get the law back to second reading in such a way that we and all the authorities are not unattached in their fantasies, but worked within the limits that determine the development of the country. Dear colleagues, right behind us, as we are working on preparing the bill for second reading. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on the basis. The position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs was to send the bill for rereading. It was a special thought with which Anatoly Matvienko spoke. I'm putting to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Internal and External Policy. [[Registration number 6451]] Please vote. [[11:45:43]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. By factions, please: Region Party - 171, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 23, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 10, Communists – 27, Litvina Block – 19, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, as you know, at 16 hours in the National Museum of Ukraine, President of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic will address the Ukrainian people. Taking into account the situation that the Ukrainian national deputies are invited to participate. [[B in m in s a l in]] in a special session to be held in the Palace “Ukraine” on this subject. On the Conciliation Council, you and I agreed that today we would put to the vote a proposal of such content that the Supreme Council of Ukraine would work until 15 hours in plenary mode without interruption. After 15 hours there will be buses on the territory of the Constitution and people's deputies, and factions willing to take part in this action will be able to reach the Palace of Ukraine. One minute, me. By procedure, then. So I'm voting on the proposal to hold a plenary meeting today, Thursday, June 3, without interruption until the 15th hour and the evening meeting of the Supreme Council not to be held in connection with this, for this proposal, I ask you to vote: to make changes to the schedule of our work. Please. [[11:47:39]] For 249 Decision taken. For reasons of vote, Anatoly Matvienko and then Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u108	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the “Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense” block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, since you touched on this issue, I wanted to ask it in a different way, but you violated it. This is about the President's message. Vladimir Mikhailovich! The President's message is to be sent to the Supreme Council. Indeed, there have been times when the messages were advertised and there were times when they were not announced, but there was no such thing as a presentation of the President's message in what forum before the Supreme Council had received it. We're putting the Supreme Council today, I don't know what level of disrespect it is. And I address you as the Head of the Supreme Council, there can't be such a precedent, we have to get this message, and only then can it be presented anywhere. The Supreme Council is zero. And I want to address the leadership of the Supreme Council not to allow such phenomena and relationships, even on the part of the guarantor, if he is a guarantor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u109	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u110	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski. “Our Ukraine”. I can only appeal again to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the reason that the authorities of the State should act on the basis of powers and in the manner established by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. I'm not talking about today's Supreme Council being subordinated to Ukraine, where it's actually both the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, and it's not a self-sustaining legislative body. In this way, the very principles of parliamentaryism in Ukraine are being undermined, one of the greatest achievements of Ukrainian democracy. But I also draw attention to a systematic, I stress, systematic violation of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, where Thursday night meetings are scheduled. And so by decree of the Supreme Council, we have no right to repeal the law, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. We've already shown that this Rules are "filka's letter." But it can't be bullied forever. I'm reminding you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I remind my distinguished colleagues and please do not, in your own words, demean the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to accept changes to the calendar of its work. Yuri Bogdanovich, first thing I want to say is, we've decided on the Conciliation Council that we're going to put this matter to a vote. If you want me to say it again, we'll form it by decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yuri Bogdanovich, calm down. I now answer to my colleague, Anatoly Matvienko. The point is that the President of Ukraine, in accordance with article 106, refers to the people as well as, please, listen. I'm reading to you, if you don't want to spend your time, then allow yourself to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Article 106, para. 2: “The President of Ukraine refers to the people and to the annual and successive messages to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the internal and external situation.” So listen, so I'm telling you, the President of Ukraine goes to the people wherever he wants, whatever he wants, anytime he wants. With regard to the letters to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this procedure is foreseen by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is to take place exclusively in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not make any other decision on this matter, there is no oppression, there is no subordination. I personally did not subject myself to either the other or the third or the fourth President. You don't comply. That's it. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the All-U.S. Referendum has been announced. Reporters are national deputies of Ukraine Szpenov, Klukkowski and Konovaluk. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government Affairs, Omelchenko Alexander Alexanderovich. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] About what? What? Matvienka, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u112	Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block, Matvienko. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm addressing you one more time. In accordance with the Law on Rules, bills cannot be considered unless they have been considered within a period of time on the committee. These bills were included on Tuesday in the agenda. The bill was not considered on the committee of profile. What's Omelchenko to report, I don't know? So this is a violation of the law and procedure. They should be considered on the committee officially and only after that should they view the consideration in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u113	I'm leading a respectable colleague to the point that you really need to spend time without it. In accordance with the Rules, the committee is obliged to consider these matters during the month. Instead, I'm telling you, the bill was registered 26. 04,21.04, 29.04. Please report. Please report. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich, you're a wise man.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u114	Good afternoon, fellows! The Constitution of Ukraine, article 5, provides that the people enjoy sovereignty and a single source of power in Ukraine, establishes that the people exercise power. In particular, article 69 states that the referendum is a form of direct democracy and an instrument of popular will. These constitutional rules need a clear legal framework, which is not yet implemented. With a view to resolving the issue, a bill on an all-Ukrainian referendum has been prepared and introduced. The Ukrainian Law “On the All-Ukrainian and Local Referendum”, which has been in force so far, was adopted almost 20 years ago, in 1991, before the adoption of the Ukrainian Constitution. Many of its rules are outdated and are not in force to date, as they do not comply with the Ukrainian Constitution. However, some constitutional rules are not reflected in the Law. Let me give you some examples. The current Act does not provide for the exercise of the constitutional right of the President of Ukraine to appoint a referendum, including the appointment and holding of a referendum under article 156 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the amendment of section 1 of the General Provisions, 3 of the “Elections and referendum” and 13 of the “Implementation of amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine”. Restrictions on matters that may be brought to the referendum are not in accordance with article 74 of the Ukrainian Constitution, and the role of the Central Electoral Commission in the referendum process is not regulated, as provided for in the 2004 Act. The referendum process involves the participation of a non-existent body such as the Presidency of the Supreme Council. There are no clear legal implications for the decisions taken in the referendum. This minimizes the possibility of effective implementation of nationalities by means of decision-making in the all-Ukrainian referendum. We all remember the referendum on 16 April 2000, in which the proposed changes were supported by voters, but the way in which the referendum was held, the possibility of early voting, the nature of the questions raised, the uncertainty of the legal consequences of the referendum, led to the fact that the referendum remained a large-scale public opinion poll. The need for legislation on referendum in accordance with the current Constitution has also been brought to the attention of the Constitutional Court by its 2008 decision. I would also like to point out that the Venice Commission in 2001 turned the guidelines into constitutional referendums at the national level. This document provides for minimum recommended rules that address the problems of referendums in new democracies and are designed to ensure the effective use of this instrument, the government. In particular, the Venice Commission noted the need to establish, at the legislative level, a referendum on constitutional principles of electoral law, a general, equal, free and direct secret ballot, the guarantee and observance of fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression. A number of procedural issues are recommended. The clarity and clarity of the issues raised are transparency, not interference by the authorities in the referendum process, multifaceted agitation, media use, judicial review, in the event of a violation, a clear definition of the consequences of the referendum. In the preparation of the bill, this issue has been given close attention - the process has been regulated and step-by-step and detailed. In addition, the proposed bill was based on constructive ideas from legislators in this area, taking into account the positive developments previously made on this issue. The bill consists of 13 sections which provide for a phased regulation of the referendum. By initiating entities, referendums can be divided into: on a popular initiative, and on other grounds, ratification - approval of amendments to the Constitution. I would like to refer to the procedure for holding a referendum on the people's initiative. First. An action group of at least 500 is established. At a meeting of citizens who attended at least 2,000. The Action Group shall be registered with the WCEC. Within 40 days, the initiative group collects signatures of citizens on signatures in support of the referendum. At the end of the deadline, signatures, other documents for signature collection are submitted to the Central Electoral Commission, 3 million signatures must be collected, at least two thirds of them, and at least 100,000 votes. The Central Electoral Commission shall review the documents submitted within 7 days, carry out a sample examination of the accounts, and in the event that at least 3 million votes are collected, transmit decisions on the outcome of the signature collection and protocol to the President of Ukraine for the preparation of a decree on the appointment of an all-Ukrainian referendum. The President is issuing an order. After receipt of documents from the CEC, the date shall be set on the last Sunday of the 50-day period following the issuance of the decree. Following the issuance of the President's decree the day after the publication of the CEC, the President announced the commencement of the process of the All-Ukrainian referendum at his meeting. The all-Ukrainian referendum is held in one State-wide district of the referendum, which includes the entire territory of Ukraine and the border districts. In a single State-wide district of CEC, 225 territorial districts are established to hold a referendum within which the sites are established to be ordinary, special and foreign. The referendum commission system includes: the first, the Central CEC, the second, the District Commissions, which establish a 15-member CEC. Candidates are proposed by the Presidents of the Regional Councils, the City Councils of Kiev and Sevastopol. If they have not submitted within the prescribed time limit, they shall be submitted by the Government's district administrations. The 11-member district commissions are established by the District Commissions. Candidates are submitted by the relevant local authorities. If they have not returned within the prescribed time limit, they shall be submitted by the district and public administration. CEC approves the form of the bulletin. Referendum questions can only be formulated by yes or no answers. The vote shall take place on the day of the referendum from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. without interruption. The question put to the referendum was considered approved if it had been voted for by a large half of the nationals participating in the referendum. Final results shall be established and made public by the CEC and may be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. Procedural issues of the referendum are close to the electoral process, unified by electoral law. But most clearly, the legal implications of the decisions taken in the referendum have been clearly identified. The decision of the All-Ukrainian referendum on the People's Initiative is final, binding and does not require approval, approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine or by any other authority in Ukraine. I look forward to the active participation of the people's deputies in the drafting of the second reading bill. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. OlegZarubinski, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. OlegZarubinski, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Dmitry Yuriovich! You've got enough system bill, a lot of questions he raises, a lot he even offers to solve. By the way, the next Bill of Jury Klukkowski has such a systemic character. But he has, and you have, I've noticed a rule that defines from the options of the referendum as a constitutional referendum. I know about the Constitutional Court's decision, and I foresee a possible answer for you in this regard. It is proposed in a constitutional referendum to adopt a new constitution. Tell me, do you think you're a lawyer? What people would vote for by putting a twig in one way or another. When will the tens of pages be presented with an extremely complex, most complex document that can only be in the legislative system? What will happen if they agree with one chapter rather than agree with another? Don't you think it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u117	Thank you so much for asking. I believe that this issue has been discussed by me and my colleagues, with whom I have consulted in writing this law. It's pretty complicated. And I believe that there is no way to address this issue to date. And we need to take it as I suggested and as my colleague suggested. If you have any ideas, let's do them on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u118	Vladimir Bondarenko, “BlokuTimoshenko” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u119	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", Party "Reforms and Orders". Those who have come to know this document today, which you have proposed, surely realize that it has a far - reaching prospect. This is about changing individual chapters and articles of the Constitution, which today are taboos on them, because they can only be considered after approval, but they must be considered in the Supreme Council. Taking into account the integrity of today’s power, the one-party nature of this power, we can count on the change in radical things in the Constitution, including those relating to the unitarianity of the state, which are related to its borders, which are related to so many things that have not yet been considered, which can finally break society. Do you not fear that the document you have proposed will give rise to the destruction of the state of Ukraine, which we could thus preserve today by throwing out of your bill some positions that inadvertently claim that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u120	Thank you so much for asking. I wish to say that these sections clearly provide for the Constitution of Ukraine, which is on the basis of the referendum, and what the basic provisions may be. And if the Law has become obsolete to date, they do not work if we have provided for the Constitution, then we must probably change the Constitution first, rather than bending the laws to change the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u121	Please, Baldwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u122	A respected colleague, the practice of holding referendums in Ukraine and the local interviews we conducted in the Donetsk region, for example, shows that the referendum will normally be supported by the population. Thus, the question of the formulation of the question referred to the referendum becomes decisive. Do you believe that the mechanism proposed in your bill really guarantees society against questionable questions, questionable language? Do you consider that a sufficient mechanism to formulate these issues to suit national interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u123	You know, it's kind of a complicated mechanism to start a popular referendum. That is to say, as I have said, an initiative group should gather more than 2,000 people and identify 500 people and then gather more than 3 million votes, at least 2/3 of them in Ukraine and 100,000 at least in Ukraine. I believe that, in collecting votes in signatures, all these issues are complicated, and there will be no wrong issues that are difficult, only those issues that will really interest Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u124	Please, Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u125	Thank you. Olga Bondar, “Clock of Yuli Timoshenko”, “Paternal Party”. Dear reporter, you may not even answer, but I know clearly even those colleagues who would recommend this project to you. And what I'm saying is that today this project of these three proposed, it's completely the most imperfect project ever presented. You don't even know what the object and the object of the initiation is, and even in your report, you didn't say, but you got a control shot. And tell me, please, how is this how I've heard from my colleagues and by continuing your sensation that you planted here as a bomb, how does this decision of the referendum not require any ratification and vote in the Supreme Council of Ukraine? How are we going to reverse the norms of the Constitution, or are we going to somehow uphold these norms of the Constitution, and the Supreme Council doesn't need to be here? Look, let's get rid of the budget. We don't need a legislative body. Let's who.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u126	Thank you very much for allowing me not to answer that question, but this question was clearly warned by the Venice Commission that we should clearly formulate the question and there were consequences of the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u127	Yes, Dmitri Juryovich, thank you. Have a seat, please. There's a bill under number 6278-1. Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski. And “Our Ukraine ” will ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u128	I am sorry that such an important issue is being dealt with with in violation of the Rules. For the transcript, I want to emphasize, two alternatives to my bills, at least in the last edition, were introduced on May 11. Thus, no 30 days have passed, and we have a further violation of the Rules, as well as a violation of the Rules, which has prevented the faction from asking questions. However, as I go to the point, I want to say that a sufficiently thorough statement by my predecessor frees me from the need to justify what the bill is for. The only thing I want to say is that the problem itself is complex enough, it doesn't have a clear answer to a lot of questions, even in terms of the theory of law, in the theory of constitutional law, and that's why it's going to be hard to find consensus here in the room. However, I would like to point out that my colleague Espenov's bill is close enough to those positions that I have already had the opportunity to defend several times. To a large extent, our two bills are moving in the same direction. However, his bill, in my view, does not provide answers to a number of fundamental questions related to the referendum issue. The first question concerns how the question should be asked in a referendum, which subject should it refer to. The bill of colleague Špenov takes a step beyond the 71st article, which corresponds to the legal position of the Constitutional Court, in particular its decision in 2000. Remember, though, that the referendum at the national initiative always raises questions that the Constitution refers to someone else’s authority. And that raises the question of which authority can be seized from a referendum. What laws can be passed means that we can take them from the Supreme Council. But can it be brought to a referendum questions relating to the competence of the President of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine, the courts, the local authorities, the individual central authorities? Could this be the subject of a referendum or not? Could it be the subject of a referendum? Could it be the subject of a referendum to express mistrust to an authority or an official? There is no answer to these questions in the bill by a colleague of Sphenov. I'm trying to answer that question. Next. Is there any way to formulate a question? Can you ask, for example, “Do you support the dissolution of the Supreme Council to make it better for the Ukrainian people?” Why don't we cancel the president's office so the Ukrainian people can live better? Is that a question to be asked? So, as you can see, it's not like any formulation of a question, even from the same problem, can be put to a referendum. Next. That's right. Okay, I'll talk about it later. But let's move on. If we say that there are restrictions on the referendum question, the question arises: How do we control the implementation of these restrictions in the initiation process or the appointment of a referendum? How can we prevent a referendum that cannot be conducted under this law from taking place? Because to expect an initiative group to be made up of just lawyers, well, that means to fool yourself. There will be middle-level people who may not know that this question does not correspond to the Proferendum Act. The second group of issues relates to the legal force behind the referendum. We've already spoken to my colleague Szpenov, and he has agreed that since the announcement of the Central Electoral Commission's decision, the law adopted in the referendum has been adopted. It can't work because, according to the Constitution, any normative act has to be published before it takes effect. It's a small, so to speak, technical adjustment. But I have another question: what about the referendum decision, which was not about the specific text of the normative document, but about the question in more general language? Because it can't act directly -- it requires implementation, as the Constitution of the Court of 2000. What are the requirements of the law regarding this implementation? These questions must also be answered. And finally, third. I've already said that a referendum on a national initiative removes the issue from the competence of the public authority. I have a question: does he permanently remove them? If forever, then he changes the Constitution in a way that is unforeseeable in the Constitution. Therefore, in this regard, it is also worth listening to the recommendations of the Venice Commission and setting a reasonable time frame, and I propose five years in which the referendum decision cannot be changed in any other way than by a referendum, but after that the question should return to the competence of the constitutional body. Is there another interesting question that relates to the procedural part, who has the right to vote? Because the referendum is foreordained. the answer and yes and no. And freedom of referendum should provide for freedom of agitation, both “pro” and “against”. However, according to the draft by his colleague Sphenov, the subjects of the referendum process are only those who initiated the referendum and those who speak “against” are not the subjects of the referendum process. I think that we should also look for improvements in these provisions and I have the right answers to these questions. There are other issues related to procedures, and I would like to point out that there has also been some convergence in the Espheni bill with the procedures envisaged by electoral legislation. It seems to me that my bill and the bill of colleague Sphenov are subject to, well, I would say so, the approximation of the further process of processing. So, personally, I propose to the Supreme Council: to adopt two bills on the basis of which I would assign a profile committee together to work on them, perhaps by creating a working group where all the subjects of the legislative initiative will be involved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u129	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. There will be questions for sure. Please sign up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please, Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u130	Mr. Yuri. Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", Party "Reforms and Orders". I'm asking you the same question, practically what I asked your predecessor. Can this bill be the basis for action under the pressure of an administrative structure that is now created on a one-party basis on the population, in order to address such issues as the federalization of Ukraine, the change of its borders, the transfer of part of the territory to a neighbouring state that is currently receiving only branches, there, military bases in the territory of Ukraine, and then can Tuzulu get, the Kerchny Strait and much more? So what I'm asking is, is this going to happen or can't it come from the position of the party that is running the state today, the basis for the collapse of the state itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u131	Thank you. I'm not standing in the position of the party you're talking about, so it's hard for me to speak from her position. I'll say this: in the whole world, in a democratic world, a referendum is considered a very dangerous tool, because it can create a situation of so-called plebiscite dictatorship when a beloved leader passes through the constitutional authorities and prints the necessary decisions in a referendum. Hence, appropriate fuses are needed. I think that those who voted in favour of the draft principles of internal and external policy, where compliance with the Constitution is envisaged or not the first principle, will agree that if the Law “Proferendum” establishes, and the Constitution establishes certain restrictions on the subject of the referendum, there should be a mechanism to control the question of a referendum so that, in fact, the questions you are talking about do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and the legislation of Ukraine in order not to be referred to a referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u132	Please, Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u133	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Yuri Bogdanovich, if we were to look at this bill as provided for in the Rules, I would suggest that the entire room take the basis of your bill, because it is perfect enough and deserves attention. I only have two questions to ask you, and they're rhetorical-political, faster than legal. First, in view of the fact that this room has now voted by a majority in favour of the principles of foreign and domestic politics, how will the foundations laid in your bill correspond to those principles? That's the first question. And the second question. I'm in solidarity with my colleague Bondarenko, why do you think that speed is so fast without even considering it on the committee, without all the procedures being regulated, why is the speed, the desire of the authorities to accept these bills immediately? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u134	Well, I can understand that there's always a reason for my bill not to vote. It's such a thing. But I can give political answers to your political questions, but I would like to say something else, frankly, in society already, and not just here in the room, is causing misunderstandings. If the coalition has a majority, why doesn't it want to be implemented in a beautiful, legal way? Why must opposition break through the knee in each such vote? Believe me, this is causing a negative mood primarily with regard to the coalition, but also with regard to the state that is governed by such a coalition. So, I don't understand what's going on today, I don't understand why the Law “Regulation” is being grossly violated in addressing this particular issue, but everyone can see and hear, and everyone makes their own conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u135	Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear Yuri Bogdanovich! You have a bill, particularly in the Explanatory Note, that there is a constitutional referendum on the adoption of the new Constitution of Ukraine or the Act amending chapters 1, 3, 13 of the current Constitution of Ukraine. There are no questions about the second part of this sentence, because by making changes regarding chapters 1, 3 and 13, you can actually formulate one of the positions, one question and one question about it, really, the person who participates in the referendum can consciously answer yes or no. Please tell me, could a person, I repeat the question as well as the previous report, willfully say, yes or no on the many page paper that concerns economic, ethnocultural, which you want problems, what the Constitution is, it can agree with 50 percent of those dispositions, and at 50 it doesn't. Please tell me it's a choice, it's a campaign.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u137	Thank you very much, that's a very good question. I'm afraid I won't get in in a minute to answer him. First of all, I really don't share the view that the people's initiative can formulate a whole text of a normative act. If this is about individual points of change or cancelling some standards, I'm absolutely dividing it. By the way, I want to say that this position was shared by, I think, in the third call, three very well-known Ukrainian national MPs, who then passed a bill on a referendum that was committed by the then President, where it was anticipated that the people's initiative could be voted down only by repealing the law or its relevant norms, not by enacting the law. It was the Immortal, the Road Ilavinovich. With regard to the adoption of the Constitution in a referendum, such practices exist in the world. It is really the exercise of the authority of the people. But nowhere in the world has this practice been implemented with regard to a project developed by an initiative group. Or this project was designed by Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u138	Yes, thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u139	or established congregations. Therefore, my bill provides that a draft previously approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be submitted to such a referendum as was envisaged by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u140	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Have a seat, please. Reporter for the third bill. None. Then please, from the committee. The committee, I understand, Alexander Alexanderovich, has not considered, so there will be no report. Yes, please, Omelchenko Alexander Alexanderovich, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u141	Good day to all of us in this room. We were actually assigned to the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council on Monday, May 31. In fact, two draft laws reported by reporters were registered in mid - May this year. The committee has not received any scientific expertise to date. And that's why I emphasize, and the bill today is project 6278 or could have been the other way around -- 6278/1, there are several days of differences in registration, both of them in some part together as two almost identical projects, and then the 296 votes voted by the then national MP, Alexander Volodymyrovich. [[Mikolo Mikolaiovich, you're distracting the minister.]] So I want to say that there's no need to politicize the issue today. On June 5, 2010, today, June 3, 2010, 296 votes were voted in law and sent to the x-President for today, Mr. Yushchenko. Ex-President today, Mr. Yushchenko on page 17 wrote comments that were not accepted in the hall. And we could have had the law a year ago, which was then proposed by the national MP Lavrinovich. It's a historic thing for me to look back into the hall -- don't politicize the situation, it's a law that needs to be done. [[I've got half a minute left.]] And if today was a law that we didn't break the veto. And the veto, honourable colleagues, not only did the NS-NS coalition not vote in favour of the veto a year ago, but only the 155-vote faction voted. Please pick up the documents they are all saved. So I think it's fair, with a slight violation that the committee has not considered, the session has the right, it's higher than the committee, to make a decision today, as the rapporteurs have reported. I would consider it appropriate, Adam Ivanovich, to accept both one and the other reports on the first reading as a basis, to entrust the committee, and the committee will take the conclusion of the Scientific Authority, and nine of us will go to a legal, full document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u142	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Have a seat, please. I emphasize again, it's just I'm happy to see you and I think we're all happy to see Alexander Alexandrovich in line and give him his word, although the committee has not been known to consider the issue, but at least to see that Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich has taken up his duties. Welcome back. [[Applause]] Yes, please sign up from factions for discussion. Yes, please, from the deputies. Yes, 30 minutes, please, Olga Bodnar, faction of Yulia Tymoshenko, prepare for Gordon.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u143	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I think we've been playing a little bit of a game, and we need to stop this mess where we started working here and understand that the Law “Proferendum”, which is now valid today and is a little out of date, because it has long been accepted, needs more attention than is being given to it today. I think it's a sign because it's very closely related to the will of citizens. Why did she say very much related and not one of the forms of willful expression? But because I already have such a sad experience in an independent Ukraine, when these referendums were held and held exactly as one official or another had to. Unfortunately, to this day, you and I have been able to consider only two drafts that dealt with the whole of Ukraine's referendum and passed the topic of the local referendum. I'm sorry that you didn't hear about the third bill that was submitted by the national MP Konovaluk about the referendums in Ukraine. So, with your permission, I want to say that this bill does not only apply to the U.K. referendum, but it also introduces a republican individual to the Republic of Crimea, as well as local referendums that will be held by local communities. Maybe it would be both nice and not bad if we didn't see what's going on in that bill. To hold a local referendum, you have to have the expense of holding this local referendum, and who do you think will give it to? That's what the local council will do. Well, let's see, the local referendum allows us to hold? And local referendums have the right to disenfranchise and terminate the mandate of a council. Tell me, which one of you doesn't remember how this happened in Kiev when all of Kiev came forward, collected more than 10,000 signatures in order to take down Chernivecki, and had to come to Chernivecki to sign these letters, and to get this referendum started. Do You Not Remember? Ask the Chinese, and they remember well how their will was canceled. I can also say that very many of the negative things that are going to be declared will not work because of this bill. I understand you'll vote for all three of them. I want to say that of all three of the best drafts, a bill that, unfortunately, is not heard in this room and not appreciated enough, is a colleague of Klukkowski's. But for today, I understand that this is the kind of haste that they're trying to accept this bill right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u144	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u145	It only brings me to one thought. Ladies and gentlemen! This unfortunate, killed, but not yet killed by the people, he needs to know that you want to prepare another bomb for them. During the possible local elections, you want to hold another referendum. So tell them: “People, we don’t need you, we will conduct what we need. I'll keep you here." Thank you. The faction will not vote for these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u146	Please, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Prepare for Wonderland, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u147	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! In the session room, in the media and in society, democracy, which is the only source of power, is often spoken of. For many years, however, the law on conducting all - Ukrainian referendums, as well as the law on holding local referendums, has not been passed. I have a question. Where, then, is the authority of the people really? And does the people have the right to their own opinion, and will the people speak out of a question? Yes, it does. But by procrastination, because appropriate laws are not passed and we are living under a fairly old law today, the people do not actually have that right. Now you've heard exactly what the storytellers are saying about the bills that are being proposed for consideration. And this, of course, is the exclusive right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote in favour of a bill. Today, I would like to draw your attention to what we have voted and voted in favour of a bill, and we should certainly consider what is better in all the bills, in preparing for the second reading, which is in all the bills. And the working group, the committee that had already scheduled for June 9, this year, must take into account the acquisitions made by the national deputies and the political forces. When I talk to you, I'm saying, let's just throw away all the political speculation and finally, we're going to adopt the Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum, and we're going to give the people of Ukraine the right to express their will and their thoughts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u148	Thank you. Please, Chudnov, Party of Regions. Zabarski gives the word? Please, Zabarski. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, it has been repeatedly said that the referendum is one of the forms of direct democracy. And the question of the legislative anchoring of referendums, the order in which they are carried out, the clear definition of the procedure is extremely relevant. Because the latter allows for a real impact on government, political, and social processes. The uncertainty of legislation, the lack of a clear procedure, could lead to a referendum being a way of manipulating public opinion. And this is an example when the Fascist Germany was allowed by referendum to resign from the League of Nations, to unite the positions of Reichscancler, president of the Taführer. And at the same time, this example is not in any way compromising the referendum as such, but only raising the problem of the interaction of various institutions of democracy. It should be noted that the referendum is an effective tool right there, in those countries where there is agreement between the branches of power and the balance of the institutions of democracy. And a positive example could be the holding of an advisory referendum in Norway in 1972, the introduction to the EU’s Common Market, where more than half of the citizens voted against such an introduction, and the people’s will was realized in a decision by a state body, i.e. a specific misunderstanding between the people and the government. So in order to properly address the practical possibilities and implementation of one of the two basic forms of direct democracy through the holding of referendums, to participate directly in the management of state affairs, to avoid the possibility of monopolizing the opinion of the Ukrainian people, to create a real opportunity to implement the decisions made in the entire Ukrainian referendum, into modern political, economic life, and to introduce this bill to our colleague, Spenov, on the universal referendum. There are enough positive points to this bill, something that needs to be prepared for second reading and some clarification. The bill provides not only a three-step level of verification of signed letters, i.e. the first level – the local authority in which the signatures are collected, the second level – the Central Election Commission and the friction level – the President of Ukraine, but also the procedure for the prosecution of decisions at each level and the subjects of such an accusation is determined by the authorized persons, the initiative groups, which is certainly positive. The project proposes to distinguish between the all-U.S. referendum and the event. The draft stipulates that the All-U.S. referendum on the approval of the new Constitution of Ukraine, the amendment of the Constitution of Ukraine, the annulment, the loss of validity or the non-validity of the laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine shall be declared by the President of Ukraine as a national initiative. Thus, the proposed edition simplifies the order of implementation. The only source of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u150	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u151	Drafting of the Constitution. Therefore, I would like to support the bill, which was introduced by the People's MP Spenov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u152	Thank you. Zarubinski, please. He'll be followed by Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u153	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. To say that today the issue of the adoption of the Law on the All-U.S. referendum is not urgent, is not relevant is to contradict yourself or simply be dishonest. Everyone knows very well that one of the key forms of direct democracy and nothing more democratic than direct democracy is a referendum, and that is known. From another point of view, everyone knows very well, in any case, those who have been preparing for this issue, that we are now using the law on referendums in Ukraine and the local ones, adopted on 3 July 1991 by the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. One second. This law, which we seem to be using today, does not contain any real tools or mechanisms for organizing and holding referendums. I'm not saying that, after the adoption of this law in 91, the Constitution of Ukraine was adopted, and the position of this Constitution, the more precise position of this referendum law, is not in line with the constitutional provisions of the referendum. In particular, the Presidency of the Supreme Council is absent from the Ukrainian Parliament, and it says that it can initiate a referendum. So all of these moments, I can still cut them down, sorry about the jargon, from the tenths, say it's a topical issue, and you don't have to flip it. The other thing is that the Supreme Council has to set up fuses to ensure that the referendum, the more the U.S. national referendum, does not become a mechanism for manipulating public opinion. That's really what we need to work on. And in this case, in preparing for the second reading, it's precisely the power and resources of the intellectual people's deputies that have to be directed. I didn't ask the rapporteurs either, and I asked the other questions about how there might be a conscious vote in the U.K. referendum for the full text of the Constitution of Ukraine or for a new edition. Obviously it can't be and it won't be a conscious vote, and it will be a mechanism of public mind manipulation, as it was, by the way, starting in 2000, when the entire Constitution was always in place, that the whole Constitution could be adopted in a referendum. It seems to me that, as a subject for discussion, we can look at what is proposed by my colleague Klukkowski, that only a project that is already agreed upon by the Supreme Council of Ukraine can be put to the referendum. Only as a subject for discussion. And there is no way that some initiative group will write the entire text and then people have to answer yes or no on 30 pages of legal text. And one more moment. A very important question is the formulation itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u154	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u155	on the very question of the formulation of the questions raised in the referendum. Unfortunately, we already know the practice, this practice was in the year 2000, when the question was of a motivating or encouraging nature, that is, the question was already given a clue as to how the voter should vote. The question of the referendum, and this should be legislatively defined, I hope that this will be in preparation for the second reading, should be essentially an alternative, where a person can clearly answer yes or no. I think we should start working on the referendum law and adopt it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u156	Ruslan Knyazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u157	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! It's actually an absolute sense of rain, because around, you know, the professional discussion on the Referendum Act, we're already talking to you here, starting in September 2008, when we started working together, you remember the previous texts of the law. And it was true that Alexander Alexanderovich said that quite recently this law had been removed, given that the President's veto had not been overtaken in the session room. Here, all of a sudden, instead of somehow being able to find the points of contact and work out a joint bill that will have a perspective, including if we need to overcome the veto, this bill is being introduced, which is actually almost 100 percent of the previous draft, which has been removed from consideration, except for one small part, which is obviously the subject of discussion right now. The point is that the constitutional referendum also provides for a referendum on the loss of validity or non-legal recognition of amendments to the Constitution. That is, the 2004 Act on Amendments to the Constitution. This is about cancelling the polytreform by holding an all-U.S. referendum. And there is nothing to hide here — the truth must be told to the Ukrainian people. What's more, I agree with Mrs. Olga Bodnar, which goes into language: polish it all up for the October local elections. See: 40 days is given for the signature assembly and 50 days to hold a referendum. 90 days. Count it, it's just coming out by October of the month. Think about it, 40 days is given to an initiative group to collect signatures, 3 million signatures. 75,000 signatures every day. Every day, the city needs to collect signatures. As a person who worked for the Central Electoral Commission for 10 years, including when checking the material in the signature collection, I'm going to say it's a complete campaign. The absolute mess will be brought to the Central Electoral Commission, which in 7 days no one can just check the apriorium on the Central Electoral Commission, well, physically, by even a sample test. Believe me, this is going to be a student group, at the sports halls making money, and there's going to be new cities and villages. No one's gonna check it out. If we want to make this absurd, let's do it. But I am pointing out to you that in the 2000 Constitutional Court ruling, which Yuri Bogdanovich referred to, it is said that the definition and establishment of the constitutional system belongs to the people. As far as installation is concerned, language is available. More specifically, install and edit, install -- it's about adopting a new editor. I agree here. And with regard to the changes to the Constitution, the Constitutional Court said that it was possible only through the Supreme Council. Therefore, all matters relating to changes to the Constitution and the laws governing changes to the Constitution should be considered in the session room. You have most of it. Enter, if you want, the changes in this part of the Constitution, not the absurdity of the situation. If you want to get out of this situation, you need to base the Bill of Yuri Bogdanovich, which is perfectly normal. And in principle, the one who wrote the second largely copied something from it. And then for the second reading, it's absolutely calm, there's no rush, there's no professional preparation of a normal bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u158	Valery Bondick, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up will be the Olympics. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the distinguished Presidency! Indeed, such a sensitive and sensitive issue as the adoption of the Law on Referendum is essential, for so far there has been only the legislation of the former Soviet Union on the referendum. I'd like to focus your attention, Your Honor, on Project 6278 of People's Deputies. Because the Klukkowski People's Deputy's Project is somewhat complementary, but you know, this step-by-step procedure for collecting and checking signed letters that were said here by colleagues, they're just fuses. The perfectly legal mechanism laid down in this law 6278. Why? Because, indeed, the exercise of national democracy must be implemented, that is, implemented and made known. Dear colleagues, all mechanisms of restraint, the opposition in this bill we know and they are. And believe me, the Ukrainian people are wise enough to answer these questions that have been formulated and asked. And the Central Election Commission can verify all the signed letters and, by the way, make an announcement about the referendum. So, dear fellows, I would like to ask you not to politicize this issue too much. The bill is absolutely necessary for us to vote on it, at least in the first reading. And in preparing for the second reading, you can work on it. Please support Project 6278. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u160	People's deputy oilman, BUT faction. You don't? Taras Cranville is non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u161	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, we see that this question will also be voted today in the Hall, we understand whose bill is to be voted on. Still, I would like to express some concerns about this matter. We've talked about the necessity of the referendum law for many years, and we've never, ever tried to do anything about it. And then once, there's laws and there's a momentary process going on, and we're currently getting some kind of legislative settlement. And then we quietly understand that, in principle, the law itself was in its fullest measure and that no one needed it, and one single article was needed. What happened with the previous principles was where it was clear that only one end point was needed, where the NATO theme was removed. Maybe the good thing that was being removed might be bad, but the whole law turned out to be underworked because they weren't working on it. They were working on a single position that was crucial. The same situation is now with the same Law “Proferendum”. And someone asked themselves the question that we have more than half of the referendums, and nationals and locals, happening one day with local or national elections? Or at times it may happen separately. And we have an explanation here, the unification of how it's going to happen? It has not been easier before, without rushing to perform its normal function, to do what is called the Electoral Codex, which we are talking about in the same way much, to lay down the whole procedural part of the referendum, and perhaps in the same code, perhaps a separate law already defines a political element that clearly defines what might be the question of who might be the initiator, etc. In order not to re-create precedents when there will be a conflict between two rules of law – the Law on the Referendum and the law on, respectively, the election of national deputies or local heads and local councils. They didn't think about it. And it's happening again. It's a conceptual problem. Even now we're going to unify in our first preparation, and then we're going to change the law in one and the other, and we're going to get into conflict with those laws anyway. This is unnecessary evidence that what is done quickly is not always doing well. The next point, once again, is not a question of implementation. Understanding how the following way is done, breaking the “crossbone” of the Supreme Council, introducing a completely unknown mechanism, is not either. And there is an understanding that, in the end, the bill that will be adopted was written just to hold the 16th article, to adopt the Constitution by a referendum that is absolutely contrary to the standards of the next 17 such article, article 19 on the form of a question. And that's why I think it would be worth it if we could just pause a little bit, not rush with this question and prepare a proper election code and a nationwide referendum, and a local one, because that's the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u162	Valerius Pisarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u163	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, the question of holding referendums in Ukraine is unfortunately as painful as the question of holding elections. And not only does the Constitution of Ukraine state that the will of the people of Ukraine is carried out in exactly two ways: either election or referendum. Sadly, though, the latest practice of years has shown that the question of referendum is more painful than even the question of elections. And if politicians agree on the issue of elections at least before the elections, the referendum issue has been blocked for many years. Despite the fact that Parliament has repeatedly put the issue to the vote and it has been almost almost adopted, to date effectively blocked, the actual exercise of the will of the people of Ukraine through the referendum mechanism. What is suggested in the session room today is certainly not that the law is 100% perfect, but you know, it's just that there's a lot of people who know how to criticize us. Today, it is suggested that we work on laws and work very productively, not only in the first but also in the second reading, but also in the preparation of such bills. Thus, the practice of the Supreme Council has, unfortunately, been showing in recent years that dozens of deputies have claimed from the rostrum that the Constitution is inconsistent, that there are political motives for individual bills, and then there are two three amendments to the committee and entirely from other deputies. So if we're talking about whether this bill is necessary? Of course, it is necessary, and we need to unlock the procedure for the will of citizens through this mechanism. Is it improved by a hundred percent? Of course not, but it is necessary to work on the second reading committee, to make good suggestions, to approve it as a law as a whole. It is certainly good that Parliament is starting its work with systemic bills, which can generally be adopted and unblocked by the mechanisms that most of the Constitution provides for today, but unfortunately are not yet being used to the extent that they correspond to the name of Ukraine as a legal and democratic state. Thank you. I think we need to support in the first reading and then work and help authors to make a second reading bill that would allow citizens to realize all their rights to the fullest extent that the Constitution provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u164	Mikhaylo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vyziewsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u165	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, respected colleagues, reading the Constitution, it is written in white that the source and bearer of power in Ukraine is the Ukrainian people. You know, in my opinion, putting wisdom is not the gray-haired men in parliamentary and ministerial robes on their shoulders, but laying wisdom on their shoulders is a simple working people, because their wisdom comes from the east, from the earth, from the very life itself. Therefore, according to the Constitution, yes, the people cannot rule for three years or five years, 46-47 million cannot govern the country, they delegate their powers to the authorities during the elections. But on key, principled, fateful, strategic issues, the people have the right to take power in their own hands and not to give us the right to manage their own destiny, the fate of their children and grandchildren, not of their own domestic politicians, but to decide with you. By the way, in the west where we're going, there's a decision to make now even when the store is open, working or not working on Saturday. And these referenda are made, people make decisions, not the mayor of the city. We have learned that twice the people wanted to take advantage of constitutional law. Once 3 million were gathered, five votes were collected for the NATO referendum. The people don't trust politicians, he says, "I want to decide for myself, let me say my word." The mechanism is gone and the past power has been frightened by the people, she says, "You know, the people don't understand us, they don't vote like that." And when the people heard from the past, the people believed that they had offended them, that they didn't understand anything, the people understood everything, they showed the red card to those who thought the people didn't understand the last election. Now for the referendum. Therefore, in our view, if there were a referendum on NATO, there would be no problem, we would not be discussing today, the people would by one referendum shut down NATO policies for 20 years, shut their mouths to NATO policies for 20 years, and say: "Do business, raise standards of living." We therefore believe that we must give the people the right to determine their destiny, not their politicians, not yours, not to teach the people with you, the people must teach us, and they have the right to do so in a legitimate constitutional way, and they will teach us to live through the Constitution. I propose the law of Espheni. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u166	Viacheslav Kirilenko is given the right to speak by his colleague, the faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u167	Viacheslav Kirilenko, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, today is a very important day because we will mention the adoption of this bill many more times. And that's why? The referendum is a very sharp thing, it can be used differently. The classic example of Switzerland, there, in fact, determines when a car will come to pick up garbage and from which package, where and what it will all be. That's where it works, that's where it's for the citizens. By the way, we had these referenda. Now, in my native church of the White Church, there was twice a referendum against a factory that white churchmen don't want, a metallurgical plant. Two local referendums were held on an existing legislative basis. The two white churchmen opposed the factory. The power of the former, the former, and the present does in its own spirit. This is an example of how people really view their needs. And there's a second way of using the referendum that's going to be applied now by the Party of Regions and the ruling coalition, that's how all dictators used it, that tool, Hitler applied, Mussolini applied, Franco applied, some of our neighbours to our borders dictators applied and changed their power completely, they built a usurped power vertical, but using people who seem to have given them these powers. In most cases, even in spirit, people did not know what they were threatening themselves or how the authorities were using them. Some went on to resolve political issues. This is how President Lukashenko essentially destroyed Belarusian as a national flag, changed the color of the national flag from the white to the red one, and carried out many other things, as if it were based on the Belarusian people, while not forgetting to plant all the opposition, transferred all the opposition, held several more referendums, and, at first, he provided himself with the necessary powers. This is the process where the bill from the Party of Regions is directed. Why? Because it allows even the new Constitution to be adopted in a referendum, as if on behalf of the people. He allows the referendum to adopt any law that, in most cases, 95 percent of people and the new Constitution will not read. He allows us to adopt any other issue by cynically appealing to the people and speaking on behalf of the people. That's why I'm here, until it's too late, at this highest Ukrainian rostrum to tell the Ukrainian people what they want them to do right now, and that's exactly what they want them to do, and that's what they're going to do, and that's what they're going to do. And I want to tell the MPs that even those in the ruling coalition are making any decisions right now. And then, when all the laws are passed in the referendum, all those present in this room will turn, sorry, into normal buttons, because the legislative function will essentially be taken away from us in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and this is a disgrace to us, and a disgrace to such a country, and a season.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The reporters have a closing word? Yuri Klukkowski has it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u169	I understand perfectly what the decision will now be made in the hall. Moreover, I rarely predict anything, but I can predict what changes will be made to the bill that will be adopted today as a basis. So, knowing that my speech will virtually no longer change anything, and no one will be affected, I want to say it anyway. No matter how much you love the people, no matter how much you crucify yourselves here in the rostrum on behalf of the people, this nation you are destroying, this nation you are destroying every step of the way today. And by no means today, lightning struck the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our dome, our flagpole, when the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Politics was being considered -- that's another signal from the sky, if it's on me, it's the fourth. But I want to talk to those who will then use that law. If the Ukrainian people put it, I emphasize, the Ukrainian people, not the Ukrainian people, because that's what the Ukrainian Constitution says. If the Ukrainian people treat their right as sovereign as they want to be treated by Mr. Chechetov, and I specifically call his last name so that he has the opportunity to speak with a replica, and to be heard again, because these fools need to be heard. [[Applause]] So if he uses the way he uses the right of choice and sells his voice for the Greeks and for the 100 bracelets, well, in Ukraine it's going to be a completely democratic way -- through elections and referendums he formed Hitler in the Third Reich. So if we want to live as we did with Hitler, let us do what a faction of regions today offers. I also refer to two-minority factions: colleagues, but you will first become useless after that! But first, you'll be crushed into dust, because we're far away, and we'll resist, and you won't be able to resist. So once again, let's remember that the power of the people is not a mockery of those who speak on behalf of the people. Let's still have serious control over what issues are raised in the referendum so that there is no abuse of the right, of the Constitution, and of the Ukrainian people in the way of what is called the will of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u170	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I understand now why we will not come to Europe at all. There is nothing but a declaration. How can we be admitted to the European Union if we do not trust our people! We don't trust, we think we're smarter than the people! We'll never be in Europe with you! From now on, we will be in Europe, and we will come to Europe, we will build a democratic Ukraine, because we believe our people, we trust their minds, their creativity, their wisdom, their vision. And you are yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. I'm putting a bill proposal to the vote. It's okay to register them. I first put to the vote the draft Law on the All-U.S. referendum to adopt the bill as a basis. Please vote. [[13:03:27]] For the 250. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 171, "Block of Timoshenko" – 22, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 9, communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional – 2. I'm announcing the question of the release of judges. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Justice, Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, at its meeting yesterday, the Committee on Justice decided to take decisions on the dismissal of judges. At its meeting on June 02, 2010, the Supreme Council of Justice considered the application of the High Council of Justice for the dismissal of judges of appeals and local courts in connection with the filing of applications for resignation, dismissal at their own request. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine release the judges mentioned in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft decree, according to their applications and the submission of the Supreme Council of Justice. This is Decree 6475, Volodymyr Mihajlovich. I'll read it then, won't I?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u174	Please read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u175	In accordance with article 126, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 15 and 43 of the Ukrainian Status of Judges Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: Dismissed from the positions of judges: the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of CrimeaPankova Mikola Vasilovich - in relation to the application, the filing of the resignation application; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region Military Court of Appeal of the Military Seas SilNefedova Volodymira Stepanović - in connection with the application for a state of health pension, which prevents the continuation of duties; Donetsk’s Court of Appeal for the Staravotovite Galina Jakovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Lenin District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Georgia Stepanović, in connection with the application for resignation; The Marganski city court of the Dnipropetrov district of Grysh Evgen Ivanovich - in connection with the application for resignation; The Artemian National Court of the Donetsk Region of Verescun Nina Andriyevna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Marine District Court of the Donetsk Region Paul Pavlovich - in connection with the application for resignation; The old-age district court of the Donetsk district of Djachenka Alexander Ivanovich - in connection with the application for exemption at your own request; The Hartz city court of the Donetsk district of Kaudin Alla Simeonovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Baranja District Court of the Žitomir RegionHohluk Hanna Aleksiyevna - in connection with the application for a state of health pension, which prevents the continuation of duties; In connection with the submission of the resignation application, the National Court of the Luhansk Region of Chujk Vladimir Ivanovich The Dominican District Court of the Mikolai district of Černouk Mikol Stepanović - in connection with the application for resignation; The Ochakow Regional Court of Mikolaiiv, Basanec Tamara Alexandrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; and the Balaklav District Court of Sevastopol, Shashkina Valentine Andriyivna, in connection with the application for resignation. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, there are no warnings regarding this draft decision? None. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decree on the release of judges. [[Registration number 6475]] Please vote. [[13:07:43]] For 333 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my thanks on your behalf to the judges who have faithfully served in the respective positions and today by the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who have been dismissed from their posts in connection with their applications for resignation. May you wish them good health and family comfort. Now, here's regulation 6475-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u177	At its meeting on June 2, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine held a hearing with the Supreme Court of Justice on the dismissal of judges from the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Court of Appeal of Kiev, the Kiev Administrative Court of Appeal and the local courts: Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Kyivsk, Kirovogradsk, Odessk, Poltavsk, Kharkivsk, Cerkask, Kyiv, the Kyiv District Administrative Court, the Kiev Economic Court of Kiev, in connection with a violation of a judge’s oath. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine release the judges mentioned in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft decree, in accordance with the submission of the Supreme Council of Justice. A representative of the High Council of Justice is here. All the judges who had been released were sent a personal, personal invitation to the meetings of the Supreme Council. Today, five judges appeared, six, six judges appeared in person.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u178	I have such an offer, dear colleagues. It's consistent with the law. For violating the judge’s oath at a committee meeting, a judge should be present. If he is absent for a second time for no valid reason, they may consider his release without a judge. So I have a question and a proposition like that. Now to say which of the judges was present, more specifically, was absent. The absence of judges, as required by the law, today is not a matter for considering their release from office. Consider all others in their proper order.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u179	Vladimir Mikhajlovich, on behalf of the committee, I would like to provide information that the committee, by an absolute majority of the votes of all judges, even those who did not deliberately appear at the committee meeting, has made a decision on it. And today we have a committee decision for all judges, even those who have not deliberately appeared. Moreover, the law provides that the appearance of a judge for a plenary session is mandatory, but the Supreme Council has the right to consider in the session room their release without their presence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u180	In order to stop the discussion, I see everything, Yuri Anatoliyovich, in order to stop the discussion on this subject, I read out to you the extract from the Ukrainian Law “On the Order for the Election and Liberation of the Professional Judge of the Supreme Council”, article 20: “Participation of a Judge elected on an indefinite basis on the application of his discharge from office, in the meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is mandatory, in addition to the cases mentioned in paragraphs 2, 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9.” Paragraph 5, which refers to the exemption for breach of an oath, here excluded, parts of the fifth article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine. “In the event of a repeated non-existence without valid reasons to the judge on whom the application for his dismissal is considered, with the establishment by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the fact that this person has received a notice of the time and place of the meeting, the question of this judge is being considered in the absence of him. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine assesses the validity of the reasons for nonexistence. This is also the case for judges who have refused to participate in a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or for whom there are written reports of their refusal to participate in this committee.” So I'm asking the reporter now to list the names of the national MPs who weren't in the meetings, the judges who weren't in the meetings. They will be removed from the list. For others, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will make decisions. And let's not break the Constitution. There's no debate here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u181	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, on behalf of the committee, not on my behalf, on behalf of the committee, I'd like to ask you. In accordance with the procedure, the committee decided on all judges. We ask that the committee's decision be put to the vote. If the hall doesn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u182	I repeat, no one will break the law. And the committee's decision does not change the laws of Ukraine. And that's the end of the discussion. All of it! There is a law and we will follow the law. Please, come on. Dear colleagues, report. Just a minute. The committee won't report. Please refer to judges who were not present at the committee meeting. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u183	Today. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are those judges who were.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u184	I repeat, judges who did not participate in committee meetings. Dear colleagues, I will not violate the laws, and I do not advise you to do so as lawyers. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u185	There is a meeting of the Supreme Council today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u186	I want to say it again. Judges who were not present at the committee meeting. Please. Judges who weren't at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u187	I dictate the names of those judges who were at the committee meeting yesterday and who are in Parliament today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u188	Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u189	This is the judge:Stasovska Ludmila Ivanovna, Konakin Sergey Mihajlovich, Ganzi. No, not Hansius, Pigs' Irina Alexandrovna, Babic Nina Dmitrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u190	How? Babitch?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u191	Babic. Nina Dmitrovna's grandmother.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u192	Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u193	Bachun Oleg Volodymyrovich and Kishinsky Mikola Ivanovich But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u194	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u195	Still, on behalf of the committee, I want to say what? First of all, I'll give you an example of those judges who are in this decision who are not deliberately appearing at the meetings of either the Supreme Council or the Committee. This is proved not only by the parliamentary committee but also by the meeting. was examined at meetings of the High Council of Justice. For example, regarding Judge Volkova, who deliberately failed to appear as a member of the High Council of Justice, a judge of the Supreme Court, he deliberately did not appear at meetings of the High Council of Justice, nor at meetings of the Committee, nor at Parliament today. If we allow it, maybe now these judges will come out of the session hall and leave. And then what, we're not gonna look at anybody? The committee proposed, and we, by a majority of the votes of the committee, voted all political forces to submit to the Supreme Council the release of judges on the list that is now submitted to Parliament. Despite the fact that not all judges have appeared today, although they have reported that we have evidence, that there are government telegrams on the committee today that confirm that these judges are evading their arrival at the Supreme Council, demeaning the status of parliament, and we encourage them to withdraw them from the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, if the judge does not appear at the committee meeting for the second time, you will make a separate decision by the committee, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider it. When the committee considered the question for the judge's part, or if the judge didn't show up for a second time for good reasons, and the committee made a decision, we'll consider it here. It is not necessary for a judge to be present at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would ask you, "Let's do what's right." If you and I are discussing matters today, and these judges were not present at the committee meeting, we will consider their release in the next plenary week. It is a law, and no one will break it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u197	Vladimir Mikhailovich, another example. Judge Gandhi Natalia Victorian has 700 messages from the prosecutor’s office on appropriate criminal matters — she never showed up, never came to the committee meeting. For years, we have cases in which we cannot release the judges who committed the offence: in 2005, 2006, 2007. The same is true in the Supreme Council of Justice. If today we put in place a practice where we expect judges who today are unknown where they are resting or staying, who have committed violations, which are years after the decision of the Higher Qualifications Committee, and the High Council of Justice, the Parliamentary Committee. The law does not prohibit Parliament from considering matters concerning judges who did not attend a parliamentary session. If we start this practice today, we will not be able to work and perform the functions provided for in the Constitution with regard to parliament, with regard to judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, I want to say it again. If the committee had determined in its decision on a particular judge that the judge would not appear for a committee meeting for a second or third time without reasonable reason, we had every reason to ask questions for consideration. But since that was not the case, you want to convince me that it is not necessary. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, listen, please. That the judge does not have to be in session, I have just read you a standard from the Constitution of Ukraine, and let us stick to it. Today, we're only going to make decisions about those deputies, those judges, and I'm sorry about who they were. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. I don't know who was at the committee meeting. If you have a protocol document stating that the second time, the third time, the drunk one does not appear for good reasons, we will accept it for these deputies. And the ones that are stubborn. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. And those who didn't show up for the first time are judges, and the next plenary week, we're going to have our reasons. At the invitation of the committee to consider the matter. Well, let's follow the obvious prescription of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u199	Then, to the record, two other judges who did not appear for the second time, this is Gandhi and Artakova, on the committee’s record.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u200	Gandhi?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u201	Gandhi and Artakova, which were the second time they did not appear on the committee. And for the record, there is a separate decision by each judge of the committee that they did not appear and that they should be considered in their absence. In each court, we made such a decision. There's a committee protocol, you can pick up, see.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. There's someone here, who? The Supreme Council of Justice, Head of the Supreme Court, their information. After that, we'll put to the vote the ticcans. About the dismissal of the judges for violating the oaths of those people you just told me about. If you have documents about other people, let's take a look at this. I'd ask you not to waste your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u203	Okay, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I accept your offer and then I ask you to put my proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u204	I'm not going to make your offer because your offer is a violation of the law. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u205	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u206	Please, Head of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u207	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you know, the principle of legality cannot be enforced by illegal methods. It's just terrible when it happens on the committee when it happens in Parliament, ignoring the law. I was speaking yesterday, and some of the judges said, "Where are you in a hurry?" For the first time, the judges did not show up, there are hospitals, there is evidence from the hospital that they are sick, there is an imperative rule that they cannot be considered without participation. fate is decided by judges who have worked for decades. The same Volkov is the judge of the Supreme Court, only for his principledness do they want him to be dismissed from office as a judge. You know, they don't hear, they vote by majority. Well, even in the wolf pack, sorry about that comparison, there are certain rules of conduct. Nothing! “Obriams” because someone said it and had to be released. We're all responsible for this country, we all want the courts to work properly, but let's work it in a legal way. So today, right now, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we need to remove these judges, consider, listen, and make the appropriate decision. I've made dozens of suggestions myself that judges should be released, but not in general. We need to get to the bottom of each fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, I will read again the names of those judges who were present at the committee meeting, so that all the procedural rules that have been prescribed by law have been respected, as well as those who have been repeatedly invited and for no good reason. First, I'm going to read those judges who were sitting on the committee: The factory district court of the town of Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska DistrictStasovska Ludmila Ivanovna; the Golovanov district court of the Kirovograd district of Konjakin Sergey Mihajlovich, the Malinov district court of the city of Odessa Savinska Irina Aleksandrovna, the Kijeva District Court of Kiev Babic Nina Dmitrovna, the district administrative court of the city of Kiev Bachun Oleg Volodymyrovic, the district administrative court of the city of Kiev, Kishinsky Mikola Ivanovich, and the commercial court of the city of Kiev Smilenec Valentina Vasilovna. Next, Judge of the Primorski District Court of Kiev Gandhi Natalia Viktorovna and the Czervonozadov district court of Kharkova Artakova Ludmila Aleksyivna, who were repeatedly invited and who were not invited to the meeting of the committee for good reason. So these people, we're going to make decisions about them. Others, please hold meetings of the committee next plenary week, after which the Supreme Council will make a decision. I think it's going to be a follow-up to the rules and the law. Is there no objection? Please, now, Stasovska Ludmila Ivanovna. Is there a Stasovska Ludmila Ivanovna? Come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u209	At 9:30 a.m. today, I was warned that the 12.30 meeting would be, it was called to the Council by telephone, called "the owner". Yesterday. I'm on scheduled leave, hospital leave, scheduled vacation, April 26th last year. The pressure is so great that it's just scary. I was informed of the committee last night. This is reported in the evening, and it needs to be done in the morning. Yesterday I couldn't come to the committee, and today, I'm sick (I'm in the hospital), I want to explain that I wasn't, say I was, I wasn't on the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] I was unable to give any explanation to the High Council of Justice, and I was not properly familiar with the help. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u210	It's okay. Work on your committee. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the judges who appeared today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u211	Next Stasowska, I get it. Konakin Sergei Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u212	He was.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u213	Were you at the committee meeting? Next. Savina Alexandrovna, was there a committee meeting? It was. Gandhi Natalia Yuriovna, is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u214	This was the second time that she did not show up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u215	You told me she wasn't coming. Artakova?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u216	This does not appear either.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u217	Next, Babic Nina Dmitrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u218	It's me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u219	Please, Babic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u220	I wasn't there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u221	Talk to the microphone, I'm not going to be a repeater. Talk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u222	I've been on vacation since yesterday, and I've had my leave signed since April 26 in court. Also, since June 1, I have been in the hospital. I learned from my colleagues that a meeting would take place today. And the last. On June 1, 2010, I applied to the Supreme Administrative Court for a ruling from the High Council of Justice. I filed a telegram early on the first issue with the committee, where I placed all these circumstances. I asked her to move, to consider the reason important.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u223	You weren't in a meeting last night?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u224	No, I wasn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u225	I see. This is where we have to start. Bachun Oleg Volodymyrovich was. Kishinsky Mikola Ivanovich. Is there a Mikola Ivanovich? Were you at the committee meeting? I was. And Valet Valentina Vasilovna was at the committee meeting? It was. Thus, the honourable colleagues, at the committee’s meetings, gave appropriate explanations, the committee made the appropriate decision regarding the people present at the committee’s meeting. This is Konyakin Sergey Mihajlovich, Savinska Irina Aleksandrovna, Bachun Oleg Volodymyrovich, Kishinsky Mikola Ivanovich, Smiling Valentina Vasilovna, as well as Gandhi Natalija Viktorovna and Artakova Ludmila Alexievna. I'm going to put these people on a motion to vote for release from the post of article in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. As for those who were not present on the committee, let the committee invite, consider at the next plenary meeting. The point is that if the committee did not appear for good reasons, the committee has the right to be considered by law without them. I want to read you the law again. What are you offering me? Thus, the law states that a judge’s participation is compulsory. If he did not appear without reasonable reasons, the second time the committee has the right to make a decision without him. Please, Carmazin and Ephraim and Volintz and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u226	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you are certainly right, quoting the Law on the Order of Election and the Liberation of a Professional Judge. I assure you that yesterday, during a committee meeting as the first deputy chairman of the committee, I have drawn attention to the fact that the rule of law requires the presence and repetition of the committee. What I was told is that most of the members of the committee voted on, and thus the law is not real. I want to tell you that this disrespect for the law is what we're raising from here to the Rules. Now, with regard to the two judges who have now declared what they have accused, they have brought charges before the Supreme Administrative Court. [[It's Babic and Bacon.]] They have to be removed now, Vladimir Mikhailovich, from the list because they have no right to deal with the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u227	Please, Alexander Ephraim. Then Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u228	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I think we are setting a good example for the people of our State today with our meetings and our discussions here. I'm personally intimidated when a judge comes out and says I'm on vacation and I'm on sick leave. The second judge comes out and says I'm on vacation and I'm on sick leave. A third judge comes out and says that I have filed a complaint and so on. And then we get that there's a Judge Zvaric who can't be convicted because there's corporate judicial law. Thus, we do not have those responsible in the State. Only the people are to blame, and those who judge will never be guilty. Therefore, I do not fully support the view that we must detract from the responsibility of those who decide to condemn people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u229	One from the faction. That's where Volintz raised his hand. I already named him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u230	Volodymyr Mihailovich, I want to thank you for the fact that, even though you are here, you are a labor lawmaker. There's the Labour Code, and what the whole country sees today is that when young boys run around the hall and call themselves lawyers, and they actually violate everything and everything, in this case it's discrediting the entire parliament. And I give the word to Oleg Lazka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u231	Please, 40 seconds, Oleg Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u232	I pass on the word of Oleni Šustik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u233	Come on, finish it, please. Hustik and please, let's finish this, this is some kind of joke.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u234	Olena Šustik, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party. Unfortunately, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is no joke. It takes a long time to stop juggling laws at the Justice Committee. I thank Volodymyr Mikhailovich for quoting the law, and if we ask the judges to keep their oaths and respect the laws and the Constitution, we have to start with ourselves. There's a procedure for getting the judge out of office, let's stick to it, and then we can at least shoot them. And if we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, I'm asking your attention and I'm addressing you, there are no boys and girls in the session room, there are national deputies, that's the first. Secondly, according to the law, this morning the lawyers laid down this law for me, the judge on whom the question is to be dealt with, it is mandatory to be present at the meeting. If he is absent for no good reason and does not appear for the second time, the committee has the right to consider the matter without him. I beg you to listen! Why for three years, why didn't the committee make that submission for three years? If I wanted to, I would. So, dear fellows, let's follow that logic. Now, those people whose committee has made decisions that were present at the meeting, or those two names that have been named for no good reason, I make a motion for a vote, we return to the committee, let the committee consider and make appropriate decisions in accordance with the law. There can be no other offer. So I'm voting on a motion to get out of the judge's seat. What? You've just come from a faction. KonakinSergey Mikhailovich, please. One minute, let them show. Well, please, what's the reason for asking questions about your release? Short.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u236	So I'm freeing myself for the falsified materials that the former MP of the Lausinsky Supreme Council has provided. So I failed to do his will and opposed his illegal demands.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u237	Yes, please, committee. Dear colleagues, calmly, committee, formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u238	The material presented to us by the High Council of Justice confirms that the relevant judge falsified the material of the cases, considered cases without the participation of the plaintiffs and the defendants who were not properly informed of the place and time of the case. In addition, in other cases, there is a place to book government fees two or three months after the decision is made. In the case of Haidai’s complaint, the record of the proceedings was not signed by even the presiding officer in the case. So there are a lot of violations that the High Council of Justice confirmed, and yesterday they found confirmation at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u239	Let's move on. Please, Savina Irina Alexandrovna. Have a seat, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, how do you propose to make a decision? All of you!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the case was taken up in 2005, August-September. A very difficult political situation was also pressure from the head of the court. Three months earlier, I had lost my only child, and this had a profound effect on me. In addition, the head of the court of the Odessa district judges repeatedly influenced me to make decisions regarding the determination of the child’s residence. So I'm asking you to clear up, create a committee of deputies and a commission of inquiry to get my affairs straight. On the High Council of Justice, they refused to listen to me. So I'd like to ask you to look at these facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u241	Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u242	The committee considered the matter carefully yesterday. Moreover, according to the facts just mentioned by the judge, we separately asked the prosecutor - general’s deputy. But as for the judge, she was at the Malinov District Court in Odessa, dealing with the question of Sumioblanergo, the Nicopolska Ferrospile Plant, Poltawaz and the TV company “1+1”, that is, jurisdiction was distributed to almost the entire country of this small Ode court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u243	Yes, Gandhi. None. Artakova? None. They do not appear. Next up, Bacun Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, I am on the same list of judges who are to be released for breach of oath. But I'm sorry. I can be heard, true as a judge. I showed up for the first time at a meeting of the High Council of Justice, yesterday on the Committee, and today on the Supreme Council, because I have nothing to blush at in front of me or in front of you or the Supreme Court. And despite all of your possible reactions to my words, I can say one thing. I'm here because I've been a judge for 20 years, and before that, I've been a prosecutor for 8 years, because I can compare how it worked before the change, and the democratic regime in Ukraine, and in today's conditions. From today’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I have highlighted one thing. At a time when the Supreme Council can't explain, I'm sorry, I don't want to offend you, one sentence regarding the appearance on the Supreme Council Committee of invited judges to talk about us, the judges who are dealing with hundreds of thousands of laws. And when everyone tries, unfortunately, especially in recent years, to interfere with the administration of justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u245	Thank you. What claim committee does it present?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u246	There is an unwarranted halt to the decisions of the public authorities, as well as separate actions that do not coincide with the oath of a judge. These circumstances have been studied, and I can read them. For example, the judge was granted approval to provide for an administrative action that stopped the change to the rules for the organization of static reporting submitted to the National Bank of Ukraine, which was put into effect, form number 625. Before making a decision on the matter and gaining legal power. The halting of such a change, the change in such an item, in effect, has resulted in the destruction of the entire planning process and bank supervision of the National Bank of Ukraine and has led to the failure of the National Bank of Ukraine to carry out its constitutional duties effectively. There are a few more things I can read, but if that's what it takes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u247	The materials were distributed to the deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u248	All the materials are with the deputies and were discussed earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u249	Kishinsky Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u250	As far as I'm concerned. Within a minute, those accusations that are being made today and on the committees about me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u251	I got it. Kishinski Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u252	But is this about my transgressions?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u253	So say you, why are you standing? Talk to me. Well, are you going to say something or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, I can continue to list those artificials. There was a Czernovetsk suit to the National Bank of Ukraine. And yesterday on the committee, and at the meeting of the High Council of Justice, I handed down precedents, decisions of the same relationship with the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Administrative Court, the local courts of Ukraine. I implemented that project, which was long before, defined by the judicial authorities and the requirements laid down in Article 117 of the Constitution. It's part of the compilation of statistics on the accumulation of bank capital. That's one point. And two months later, I canceled that approval. I decided to deny the mayor the satisfaction of the lawsuit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u255	Yes, thank you. Kishinski Mikola Ivanovich. Please, what can you say about claims?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, I think you are facing the first time that a judge is released for having his approval, which is aimed at protecting the interests of a state monopoly company, which is the Crossroads. I was given a resolution that stopped the incorrect, we'll speak, an invalid request from the prosecutor's office for documents. The request was directed to the State Administration “The Crossroads” and the documents were used in individual legal persons who are not even at that address and are self-accounted for. In three days, the prosecutors corrected their invalidity and sent requests to the authorities that were needed, and so the suspension of this invalid requirement by the Prosecutor's Office in no way violates any law. I believe that my approval is in accordance with the law. By the way, the Court of Appeal will examine her, complain about her approval, and refuse to grant her complaint. The case was dismissed, the parties dropped the suit, the prosecution had no claims, because she was directing others.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u257	Valery Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u258	According to the documents submitted by the High Council of Justice, the appointed judge intervened in the activities of the Attorney-General by banning any individual inspection of the subject matter. And while this has been covered up by the approval of the public company, the actually appointed judge for the benefit of the private company has forbidden the Attorney General's Office to carry out any checks on the Crucibles in the area of tender purchases. And for a few months, the Attorney General couldn't even get to the front of this company, couldn't get any help on that and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u259	Thank you. Courage, please. Courage.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u260	Vladimir Mikhailovich, two words now to Chisinau.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u261	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u262	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you yourself have noted that a separate endorsement has been made. The Court of Appeal did not annul it. It was certain that there might have been a procedural breach; no more sins were committed by this judge. He works honestly, decently. We know him simply by the rulings of the Supreme Court, by other decisions. And so out of the cove-barakt once. We have raiders that don't need to do it once. I'm not protecting them. They have to be released ten times in a row, and that's not enough. But we have to watch. I'm giving you, I'm telling you, there's nothing to fire this man for. Identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u263	Valiant Valentina Vasilovna. She's gone?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u264	She was on a committee meeting yesterday, but she did not show up today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, you have listened to all these explanations. So I only put to the vote those judges for whom I have been held. Dear colleagues, please calm down and prepare for the vote. I am voting for the dismissal of the judge for violating the oath of Konakin Sergey Mihajlovich, the Provincial District Court of Kirovograd. Please vote. [[13:42:36]] For 319 Decision taken. I am voting for a motion to release the judge of the Malinov District Court of Odessa Savina Alexandrovna for violating the judge’s oath. [[13:43:06]] For 324 Decision taken. I am voting for a motion to release the judge of the Primorski District Court of OdessaGanja Natalija Victoria in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. [[13:43:31]] For 311 Decision taken. I am voting for the proposal to release Judge Charkov Artakova Ludmila Aleksyivny in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. [[13:43:58]] For 311 Decision taken. I am voting for a motion to release the judge of the district administrative court of Kiev Bachuna Oleg Volodymyrovich in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Please vote. [[13:44:24]] For 296 Decision taken. I am voting for a motion to release the judge of the District Administrative Court of Kiev, Kishinski Mikol Ivanovich, in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. [[13:44:49]] For 236 Decision taken. I am voting for a motion to release the judge of the Kyiv’s Court of Justice, Valentina Vasilovna, in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. [[13:45:14]] For 319 Decision taken. I'm asking the Justice Committee, in accordance with the law, to consider the issue of the dismissal of judges. I am announcing the draft Law on the judiciary and the status of judges. The rapporteurs are Deputy Chief of Administration of Ukraine, Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich, National Deputy of Ukraine Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich and. We still have one project. And Yuri Prokopchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u266	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, Ukrainian national deputies! The Head of State requests society and the higher legislative body to consider and adopt in the first reading of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges. A working group of judges from the Supreme Court of Ukraine and heads of Chambers, senior specialized courts, representatives of the Courts of Appeal and the judges of the first instance, among the directors of the higher educational institutions, academics of the Academy of Law, national deputies, and authoritative experts in the field of law was established accordingly. The working group asked the President of Ukraine for the results of the meeting to submit the bill to Parliament and to support it. What the head of state is offering to society. The first is the change in procedural laws. The Head of State invites Parliament to decide how to sharply shorten court hearings in civil proceedings, administrative proceedings, criminal proceedings and economic proceedings. It is suggested that the term of the cassation should also be reduced by twofold. It is proposed that the terms of the indictment be reduced from 30 days to 10 days. It is also suggested that the possibility of refocusing matters be reversed. Earlier, as you know, it was very difficult to deal with the case even in four courts. And after reaching the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the court's decision came back for a new hearing, and the second, third, fourth, sometimes round of proceedings began. Now that cancels. It is suggested that the administrative process should be conducted with reduced conduct and that matters should be dealt with, practically, over a month. There is a decrease in bureaucratic workload in the courts, the institution cancels applications for intent, appeals and citizens will immediately appeal. The possibility of delaying the proceedings is reversed and impossible because of the mechanism for the prosecution of procedural approvals. In the economic and criminal proceedings, the rights of the heads of the courts to meet the demands of the judge are being reduced. In all trials, an anticorruption mechanism is introduced for the automatic distribution of cases. In the administrative process, it is necessary for the authorities to use their e - mail in order to deal more quickly with the affairs of a citizen against the authorities. The final and transitional provisions of the law contain requirements and amendments to the State Budget Act, the Supreme Council Rules, the Civil Procedural Code, the Economic Procedural Code, the Code of Administrative Justice, the Law on Paying for Work, the Law on the Higher Council of Justice. What exactly are we changing in the system with the system? We propose to reduce the role of the judges, which will actually increase the authority of the judge and reduce the possibility of impact on him. We suggest that the administrative office is virtually worthless, not fighting for the headship of the judge. We suggest that the initiative of assigning judges to administrative positions will be made by the judges themselves, by the approval of the judges of the country, and by the submission to the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine by car. for final approval. With regard to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, we propose that, in carrying out the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to prevent a reoccupation, the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the first time in history be the source of its decision. The Supreme Court of Ukraine will rule if a court of appeal, or a court of appeal, decides on the same standard of material law, virtually for a month. There is a decrease in bureaucratic workload in the courts, the institution cancels applications for intent, appeals and citizens will immediately appeal. The possibility of delaying the proceedings is reversed and impossible because of the mechanism for the prosecution of procedural approvals. In the economic and criminal proceedings, the rights of the heads of the courts to meet the demands of the judge are being reduced. In all trials, an anticorruption mechanism is introduced for the automatic distribution of cases. In the administrative process, it is necessary for the authorities to use their e - mail in order to deal more quickly with the affairs of a citizen against the authorities. The final and transitional provisions of the law contain requirements and amendments to the State Budget Act, the Supreme Council Rules, the Civil Procedural Code, the Economic Procedural Code, the Code of Administrative Justice, the Law on Paying for Work, the Law on the Higher Council of Justice. What exactly are we changing in the system with the system? We propose to reduce the role of the judges, which will actually increase the authority of the judge and reduce the possibility of impact on him. We suggest that the administrative office is virtually worthless, not fighting for the headship of the judge. We suggest that the initiative of assigning judges to administrative positions will be made by the judges themselves, by the approval of the judges of the country, and by the submission to the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine by car. for final approval. With regard to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, we propose that, in carrying out the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to prevent a reoccupation, the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the first time in history be the source of its decision. The Supreme Court of Ukraine will rule if a court of appeal, or a court of appeal, decides on the same norm of material law, but in different ways. The Supreme Court of Ukraine will be able to rule on a decision that will be final and binding not only on the parties to the case but also on the entire territory of Ukraine for application in all legal relations that arise in the State. We also propose that the Supreme Court reduce to about the number of judges to whom the newly created Supreme Special Court on Civil and Criminal Matters will increase, which is, fully constitutional, I am prepared to prove to you, in answer to your question, with reference to the Constitutional Court's decision. Evolution will reduce the number of Supreme Court judges in order not to diminish the right of the Supreme Court judges or put pressure on them. The Supreme Court will reduce, at our suggestion, to 20 persons in this way, even though it will take several years for judges to express their will to go to other courts. Those judges from the Supreme Court who go to the lower courts will receive the same security as the judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The appointment of judges is a new doctrinal position proposed by the head of state in the higher legislative body. We provide and offer such a mechanism that any talented person who even lives in a village could, in a competitive way, become a judge on transparent principles, passing an anonymous exam into a direct video fixation of this trial in the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges. We propose to separate the authorization from the Higher Judicial Board for the first time, because these powers are now being crossed. In the light of the conclusions of the Venice Commission, we propose that instead of dozens of active qualified commissions in each area, the qualified committees of the agricultural and administrative courts create a single standing qualification commission, which will be responsible for the selection and selection of personnel, the examinations, the conduct of special tests and the conduct of disciplinary conduct. The disclosure of all this information will be provided on the relevant High Qualifying Commission site in the media. In the law we propose a sharp increase in judicial self-government in accordance with the requirements of the Council of Europe experts. We're also going to introduce and we're going to propose that you approve this complete financial autonomy of the courts. We are implementing a decision of the Constitutional Court, which provides that each court should be financed separately from the State Budget. We're also going on. According to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, according to the recommendations of the Council of Europe, we are going to eliminate military courts. Now the question is, what does this law give to a particular Ukrainian citizen? Any citizen of Ukraine will finally be able to sue, not four courts for several years, but an administrative court for a five-day term. According to the Procedural Code that we have proposed to you, in fact, a different decision in the case of the inaction of an authority than the court can practically rule in favour of a citizen. I want to give you an example. If a citizen faces the problem of illegal evacuation of a vehicle, the inability to obtain a permit for small trade, the impossibility of waiting for help from the CDC, these actions will be considered within five days without appeal and cassation. We believe that this is a very progressive idea that we ask Parliament to support. What concerns a citizen and acts of individual action that will touch a particular citizen separately. This will also be a complaint within a five - day period. All other administrative matters will be dealt with within a month, and every citizen is given the opportunity to directly address the High Qualifications Commission of Judges to challenge the actions of wrongful judges in part of the breach of an oath. Now it is about our international obligations. Experts from the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission have sent us a series of recommendations according to the positions they have been studying. We've counted the absolute majority of them, except for those that have to be regulated only because of changes to the Constitution. The Head of State comes from waiting for changes to the Constitution, a path that will not allow us to reform the justice system, so he begins the first step to do so by proposing to change certain things by the laws of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine voluntarily renounces the range of powers that he now has as a subject that may form part of the Higher Qualifications Commission. [[I'm asking you to give me five minutes.]] In addition, the requirements of the European structures for most of the Supreme Qualifications Commission, the Supreme Council of Justice of the Judges are fully met and the Head of State is proposing such a mechanism for you. The Venice Commission also proposes that the state court administration be subordinated from the executive authority to the court, and this is the order that we propose. The proposal to simplify a very complex system of judicial self - government is 100 percent taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u267	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u268	Thank you. The next block is the last anti-corruption policy of the head of state. We offer to increase the wages of judges with the same obligation to declare their expenses and income. We suggest that the criminalization of judges be simplified by removing the judges themselves from the trial. The Attorney-General, when introducing appropriate proposals and proposals to Parliament, should consider this at the first plenary session. We also propose to prohibit the award of judges of all levels and to introduce a direct video fixation of the appointment of judges by the Higher Qualifications Commission. The president of Ukraine proposes to increase criminal responsibility for failing to execute a court decision and to expand the subjective composition of those who will be held accountable. For disrespect of the court, we also propose to increase the responsibility. And I'm ready to answer your questions about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u269	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u270	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u271	Dear colleagues! There's a question. Please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Alexander Steshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u272	The honourable reporter, I would like a concrete, sincere, responsible answer, in what way do you differ from the concept you are now presenting and the concept advocated by today's acting Supreme Court chief and a large part of the Supreme Court's judges? But only very specific.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u273	It looks very specific as follows. The fight for its powers of the Supreme Court to preserve and exercise great authority in order to further violate the decision of the Constitutional Court, which prohibits re-examination of the court’s decision and a stumbling block in the dispute between the branches of power. But let me get you the words of the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Malerenko Vasil Timofiovich, a doctor of law, a professor, a member of the Academy of Law, who said at a meeting of the working group that recommended the President's adoption of the law. He said that this content of the law in part of the decline in the powers of the Supreme Court is a concrete way of depoliticizing the courts. And he supported the President of Ukraine in his efforts to make this decision by offering it to his parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u274	Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u275	Dear Andrey Vladimirović, a great deal of work has been done, work required, thanks for taking the case, but there are still a lot of questions about the project. There are some designs that are unlikely to withstand life tests. For example, a very complicated recruitment process is very complicated. Two exams of some kind, two colleges, six months later in school, and so on, it's not like we're taking a person with legal education and at least three years of work, but a guy. I think it's going to have to be simplified, but it's not going to hold. That's the first question. And the second question. After all, let's give it up, as you have said, five years President of the Court, that's a great idea. For five years, the judge has worked, let's get some sort of certification or something, you must have all been hired by this impeccable, and there's nothing we can do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u276	Thank you. The country’s distinguished national deputies, on the subject of timelessness, are provided for in the current Constitution. We're not proposing a change to the Constitution today, so we can't deal with this at the level of the law. As for your first question, the complexity of the frame selection procedure. We, fully aware of the complexity, went this way to make this procedure competitive for the first time, to take place transparently, with the possibility of accusing candidates of being a judge of the actions of the High Qualifications Commission and with the possibility of taking a very difficult course of intellectual and teaching in order to become a judge with appropriate education, intellectual development in order to bring about justice. It's a conscious path. And the head of state is proposing to Parliament in this edition to implement this mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u277	National Deputy Olijnik Svetoslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u278	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, please explain not as much to me as to the people who are watching television today, do I correctly understand that in the new draft law, the citizen is greatly simplified in the prosecution of the actions of the authorities in administrative jurisdiction? That's the first question. And can the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges, which is competent to deal with disciplinary misconduct of judges, now can accept complaints from any citizen, and not exclude the National Deputies and the Attorney General, as it is now, that, in fact, people get more opportunities to influence and point out that whether or not another judge, perhaps violating an oath or violating a law?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u279	Dear Svetoslav Vasilovich, thank you for your professional question. Some of them have already been reflected in my report. I want to tell you that, in fact, the head of state comes from not going about officials who can't share power with each other, but proposing a mechanism that will make access to justice very quick and effective for a particular citizen. In this regard, the head of State proposes to reduce the administrative process in which the authority is responsible. In the Final and Transitional Provisions of this bill, you will see a series of procedural changes that fully answer your questions and about a citizen who can now challenge the actions of a judge. The High Qualifying Commission will be obliged to accept a complaint from every citizen, 11 permanent members of the Qualifying Commission, and among the members of the High Qualifying Commission themselves will also be placed in the order of automatic distribution so that the responsibility of certain judges cannot be planned in advance or avoided.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u280	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. For the bill, registration number 6450 is Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich time is coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u281	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Supreme Council's apparatus for responding to criticism from this rostrum when it was shown to all the Ukrainian people that these 2.5 kilograms of paper were spent on the presidential project, and this is given to every deputy. Our project is given out in this way. It takes up to 100 grams for everything, but it's all the same, but it's consistent with the Constitution. So I want people to see that we can save, Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you, and we do. I would also like to thank the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which has not been able to analyse my project, but I would like to thank you for the courage with which they examined the draft bill that has now been reported on behalf of the President. In this bill they made a clear conclusion that he should be returned to the subject for further processing, and on the 10 pages they show a violation of the Constitution of the law in force. I'm not doing this. Now it's my job to report my project. And so the current system of the system of sudour of Ukraine, in my opinion, is unwarrantedly cumbersome and complex from the point of view of the case from the first to the last instance. There are four chains of courts in the area of economic administration. There is no need for such a judicial system. It must be simple and understandable to all. With this in mind, taking into account the decisions made by the European institutions. I propose to unify the procedures for the execution of justice by the general and specialized courts. At present, the judicial system, contrary to the stated unity, consists of three virtually independent subsystems: the general courts, the domestic courts, the administrative courts. In fact, specialized, economic and administrative authorities have the authority to make final decisions regarding their competence by allowing them to review decisions of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court only in exceptional cases. In this regard, the project aims to establish a single procedure for the handling of cases by the general and specialized courts, which corresponds to the basic functions of the judiciary: the case, the appeal and the case. Therefore, on the basis of these principles, as provided for in article 125 of the Constitution, where it is established that the highest judicial authority in the system of courts of general jurisdiction is the Supreme Court of Ukraine. By the logic of this constitutional position, if the highest institutional function is a cassation, it must be carried out by the highest judicial authority of the State. On this basis, the project establishes a trilinear system of courts that consists of local general and specialized courts as courts of the first instance, appeals general courts and higher specialized courts as appeals courts, the Supreme Court of Ukraine as a court of the focal point. The current system is not in line with the practice of European and other democratic unitary states. The classic system of judicial institutions has three levels: the first instance, the courts of appeal, the higher court as the court of the court of cassation, which ensures the uniformity of court practice. The primary task of the supreme or similar courts in the leading overseas countries is to ensure equality before the law and the court, which is carried out through the harmonization of judicial practice. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, honourable citizens of Ukraine, you were now invited to make an interesting reform to the existing Supreme Civilian. The Supreme Economic and Supreme Administrative Court would add another higher court to be a conglomerate from a higher criminal and a higher civilian at the same time. I'd like you to think, by your legal nature, that the economic relationship is close to civilians, so obviously there's another way to merge, or to the administrative, but to bring together a higher court office, criminal and civil affairs, that's a little too much. That is why I predict that only the Supreme Court should act as a cassation function, this is exactly the same in most countries of the world: the court of cassation is also the Supreme Court and there is no need to divide the court of cassation and the Supreme Court. I would like to speak to you separately about what my project foresees for the preservation of military courts. Disposal of these courts today is criminal, and from an economic point of view, I will show you. The equipment of the courts in the district courts requires only moments and equipment to be handled in secret needs about 270 million dollars, while maintaining the entire system of military courts costs 29 million dollars, ten times less. The liquidation of these courts requires spending about 80 million dollars, according to the current legislation, at a time when there is a crisis. What do we have, such a rich state? I'd like to tell you that today we're beginning to see fake seals of the Ministry of Defense, forged court decisions and fake execution letters. The Legal Service of the Ministry of Defence is unable to capture all the courts where seals are currently being examined. And since there are military courts in more than 40 developed countries around the world, I believe that these courts, which not only punish but also protect people in pursuits, should be left behind in Ukraine. I'm not talking about the fact that we have a part of the military overseas and, God forbid, that they should be considered, the crimes committed by some sort of Sharia court and so on. I would also like to point out that the project foresees an increase in the role of appeals courts in all categories of cases. They must become, as in other countries, the main institution for correcting the legal errors made by the courts of the first instance. It's not happening to us yet. This should be a review of both the legal and the factual side, the possibility of exploring new evidence and establishing new circumstances, the right to adopt a new decision. Today, however, there is an absolute difference in the workload even in these courts. For appeals courts, the average monthly arrival of materials on one judge is about 10, while for local farmers, about 45, the higher the farm is about 20. Subject to the adoption of the bill, which I propose to the Courts of Appeal, on the basis of economic and administrative matters, will become the Supreme Economic Court and the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. This will ensure an appeal hearing of the relevant categories of cases, more qualified judges, the unity of practice of the local specialized courts of Ukraine, and remove the imbalance in the burden on judges of various institutions. Sharing the opinion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority that the Superior Council of Justice cannot appoint judges to administrative positions, my project proposes that they choose, on a competitive basis, the members of these courts themselves and their deputies. It's a democratic way that is predicted by most civilized countries. There is also a completely different order and formation of the judiciary or the Academy of Judges. It should not be under any private or other educational facility. It is to be chosen, to be elected by the Assembly of Judges, the Council of Judges. The judicial administration, in my opinion, is to move from the executive branch to the authority of the supervisory board of judges of Ukraine, i.e. the judicial authority. So these are the innovations that I want to propose to the judges who are now serving 8,000 922 judges, 6632 of them in general courts, 1 000 171 in specialized administrative courts, and 1 000 119 in specialized commercial courts. Besides everything else, I would like to say that the judicial branch of power should become independent, because because of that law that we passed, which was called regarding the non-abuse of the right to appeal, the judges actually became subordinated to one person in the state -- the President of Ukraine, who appoints members of the High Council of Justice. And today you and I took an oath even to the Head of the Security Service as a member of the High Council of Justice. In what other European country is this? Let me answer that. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u282	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Questions, if any, to our colleague. Any questions? None. Thank you, then. Have a seat, please. Please sign in if there is. They've already signed up. No, Pisarenko signed up and Vlasenko signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u283	Short-circuited?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u284	We didn't cut it. You reported it for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u285	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we discussed this issue in detail on the committee yesterday, we supported the Presidential Bill, and now, in order not to waste time, I am taking down my question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u286	Sergei Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u287	SergiyVlasenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear reporter! Please tell me, how does your bill address the question of the appointment of judges to administrative posts and the possibility of obtaining the Supreme Council of Justice powers on appointment of judges to administrative posts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u288	Thank you for asking. I believe that the Constitution does not provide for the right of the High Council of Justice to appoint administrative posts. In view of this, it is obvious that this cannot be recorded in the draft law, as in the presidential version. That's the first one. And the second. The draft law, which I'm presenting, clearly provides for the right to be elected by the members themselves, the very judicial self-government of their heads. But in order for this not to be a bought option, no other option, it's about competition, about competitiveness and the secretity of voting. By the way, I also propose that the Rector of the Academy of Judges be elected, as well as the Prophecy of the Academy of Judges, to be transparent, of known people. By the way, there is also a disciplinary commission that will consist exclusively of judges and look in principle at citizens’ complaints.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u289	All right, is the question over? Please sit down. Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. YuriProkopchuk, about your bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u290	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the bill, the draft Ukrainian Act on the judiciary and the status of judges, number 6450-2. Justice and proper protection of human rights and freedoms are among the main features of a democratic, legal state. The Ukrainian Constitution guarantees the protection of human rights and freedoms, a citizen of the court. Article 55. The basic law of the State also defines the basic principles of justice, chapter 8. At the same time, the law in force on the judiciary and the status of judges does not correspond to the current state of social relations and therefore requires drastic changes. The nature of modern justice is the violation of court hearings, the low quality of court decisions, the high level of corruption among judges. The reasons for this are, in particular, the imperfection of procedural legislation, the selection of judges, and the procedure for bringing judges to justice, the inappropriate conditions for their professional activities. The need for a comprehensive and systematic reform of the judicial system is borne out by the conclusions of international organisations, such as the Venice Commission for Democracy through Law! Particular attention should be paid to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights regarding Ukraine’s breach of international obligations by a court that is steadily increasing in Ukraine each year. This demonstrates the need for comprehensive and systematic reforms in the field of justice as soon as possible with a view to ensuring the implementation of the constitutional right of citizens to judicial protection, taking into account international democratic standards. The draft law introduces a transparent procedure for appointing a judge for the first time, which, inter alia, foresees: the appointment of a candidate for the post of a judge directly to the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine and the identification of a clear list of documents to be submitted by a candidate; the conduct of an anonymous examination of their general theoretical knowledge; the conduct of a special practical training at the National School of Judges of Ukraine; the production of a qualification examination by an anonymous examination and the execution of a practical task; the formation of a Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine according to the number of candidates recruited for the post of a judge of the ball for the purposes of the performance of a judicial review, the rating of candidates and the classification of them for the placement of the judges; the placement of information on the results of the panel on the status of a judicial review and the position of candidates for the judicial review of the judiciary Review by the High Council of Justice at its meeting in accordance with the recommendations made by the Higher Qualifying Commission of Judges of Ukraine. The question of the appointment of a judge and the submission to the President of Ukraine of the appointment of a judge. The decision by the President of Ukraine to appoint a candidate to serve as judge. The procedure for preparing candidates for judges will be paid in full at the expense of public funds, as such training must be free of charge and at the expense of the State, in accordance with international standards. This is particularly the case with the recommendation of the Council of Europe’s Council of Ministers, number 94, 1994. In addition, according to the conclusions of the Venice Commission, the participation of the President of Ukraine in the procedure for appointing a judge will only be a test of compliance with the selection procedure and the appointment of judges. According to the draft law, all matters of election and dismissal of judges elected on an untimely basis: the conduct of checks, the examination of appeals by individuals and legal persons, and so on, must be decided in accordance with the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine and the Higher Council of Justice. In turn, the actions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will reflect the decisions of the above - mentioned bodies. And to that end, a reduced procedure for the selection and release of judges elected on an indefinite basis is being introduced. These issues are included in the agenda of the daily session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in turn, without a vote and are considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine without the conclusion of a committee of parliament. Because what we've been watching today is just destroying the judicial system of power, it's just clearing up the accounts with the judges who are today in the grip of the unfavourable. And that is what the whole of Ukraine has seen today. The bill provides for the mandatory appointment of members of the Council, the Supreme Council of Justice of judges elected on an indefinite basis. The bill also proposes to improve and optimize the procedure for drawing judges to disciplinary responsibility. In contrast with current legislation, the draft law confers a right of appeal, or a statement of conduct, on a judge who may have the result of disciplinary responsibility on anyone who is aware of such facts. Thus, it is possible for every citizen who has been so cared for, a laborer, a peasant, as the people say, to appeal to the average citizen, who must be considered and made a decision. The President of Ukraine will not have the right to appoint members of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, unlike the current Justices Act on the judiciary. In accordance with the bill, a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine will be determined by means of an automated system that will ensure that the matter is resolved objectively by the Commission, i.e. that it will ensure against any contractual, early prepared, provoked and other cases. That is, it will indeed be an objective definition of guilt, whether it is the fault of a judge or not. The Ministry of Disciplinary Inspectors is being set up to ensure the work of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine and to improve the quality of disciplinary investigations. The bill to ensure the independence of the courts in their financing from the State budget of Ukraine provides for the definition of the State Judicial Administration as an independent body in the justice system, whose administration will be appointed and released by the Council of Judges of Ukraine. The bill takes into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since 11 March 2010 No. 7 in the case of court financial security and defines each court of general jurisdiction as a separate budget manager, which will make it impossible for the courts to intervene in the allocation and use of budgetary resources. The bill proposes a democratic and transparent way of resolving one of the current issues of the functioning of the judiciary: the appointment of judges to administrative offices in the courts. Thus it is anticipated that the head of the local court and his deputy, the head of the Court of Appeal and his deputies, the head of the High Court of Justice and his deputies will be appointed to serve for a term of five years in the number of judges of the Court and will be dismissed from office by the High Council of Justice at the suggestion of the appropriate Council of Judges. That is, not only did the Supreme Council of Justice decide, but it would be the submission of the appropriate Council of Judges. [[Like a three, right?]] Since most of the Supreme Council will make up justices, the introduction of such a procedure for the appointment of judges to administrative positions and their release from office actually removes the influence of the process from the legislative and executive authorities. In order to prevent the head of the court from influencing the judges of the relevant court, the bill provides for the introduction of an automated documentary system and a division of cases that is currently in operation only in all courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u291	Questions, please. Sign up for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u292	If you don't mind, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u293	Well, finish with the questions. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u294	In order to prevent the head of the court from influencing the judges of the court concerned, the bill provides for the introduction of an automated documentary system, a distribution of cases in the courts of general jurisdiction. The bill introduces a simplified procedure for authorising the detention or arrest of a judge elected on an indefinite basis. By this order, the arrest of a judge who is elected on an indefinite basis is submitted to the Supreme Council by the Attorney General of Ukraine. This question will be included in the agenda of Ukraine’s Supreme Council for the day, without a vote, and will be considered without a conclusion on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its next plenary meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u295	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you have any questions. It's already been signed up for three minutes. Prince Ruslan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u296	I ask you to give the floor to a recognized expert on this subject, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u297	Who? Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u298	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you, Miss Knezhevich. Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, I have listened carefully to your bill. He is certainly much better than that bill that was proposed on behalf of the President. And how do you personally see and react to the fact that the bill, on behalf of the President, deprives the Supreme Council committees and deputies of the right to evaluate the candidates? And how do you feel about the fact that the bill actually proposes to submit as many times as these candidatures would like to do before. Until they vote? And how do you resolve these issues in your bill? First. And your attitude towards the double cleavage that is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u299	In general, speaking in order, even today’s session and the way the judges were dismissed, it has practically shown that today the country is going to fully usurp authority in all three systems — executive, legislative, and judicial. And in fact, if today's Parliament, as a monitoring body, is to be removed from this process at all, and to be guided by the principle: the appointment of those judges who will listen directly to the political forces -- my bill, by the way, aimed at the absolute depoliticization of the courts, to the absolute exclusion of any influence -- whether from the coalition or from the opposition, the court must do its highest. must do the fate of the people, fate, fate of the country. And when we see that today the buyer of cases is much more than the ones that are really real, and after the judge does not make such decisions, he stands right up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u300	Sveslav Olijnik, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u301	Please pass the word to Valery Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u302	Valerius Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u303	Dear reporter, it's a pleasure that after the President's bill was introduced, there was a bill that showed that it was written very quickly and your bill went very far beyond the bill of our colleague who was registered at the previous issue. You give additional powers to the President's Institute, to the judiciary, even though, for example, the President himself gives up these powers. But, you know, if your reform is aimed at regulating administrative powers, I'm more interested in why in this room, when we release courts that break oaths, break Ukrainian laws, you block this issue, and when we consider bills that unlock the work of the judicial system, do you not want to participate?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u304	I thank you for the questions, but that's all accurate for the traffic, and I hope that as a lawyer you once learned Roman law, I appeal to him again. And there was this, you know, rule: "Let the other side be heard," but when you don't want to hear it, and you don't want to give the information that everyone here needs to know before you can figure out and press the button and decide, including the fate of one person or another, because the judge is also a person and a citizen, then this bill that doesn't give the power, by the way, absolutely administrative influence of the judges, where the system will be introduced, including what I've talked about and reported here, because it's an automated system of decision-making, not a method that's been passed over a round table and raised, that judge is bad, we'll release him because he's made such a decision. And the judge is good, because he listens to us. That's why I understand what you're talking about. And what I want to tell you is that 14 days after the introduction of the Bills under the Rules, alternative bills can still be passed. And they may appear in this room, and we need to consider them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u305	Vladimir Carpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u306	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, I want to thank you, as well as the previous report, that knowing the possible result of the vote, you do stand for your opinion. And in article 6 in the first part of “The Courts’ Independence”, you write: “The courts exercise justice on their own”, by exercising justice, the courts are independent of any illegal influence and so on. This is the cornerstone of the entire judicial system of any country. At the same time, by expanding the rights of the High Council of Justice that are currently in effect, influencing them in the courts, in the decisions of the courts, in the appointment of judges and in the administrative appointments of judges, this is not in your bill of course, but in other bills. Will it not form a judicial link, a judicial vertical in Ukraine, which will depend only on one system, on the presidential one. And what can be done to prevent that from happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u307	Thank you for asking. But first of all, this is the bill that is really the most reliable and most in the interests of the ordinary citizens who are being appealed to here and repeatedly mentioned for them, who today do not, unfortunately, have access to the courts, which unfortunately today have, not justice, but classical justice. In order for a judge to exercise justice, he must be independent and not wait for his justices to come and break on the Supreme Council. Therefore, the submission to the Supreme Council of Justice in this bill is made by the highest experts, namely the Council of Judges. And I think it's a perfectly normal formula, without diminishing the role, including the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u308	Thank you. Time is up, please sit down. FesenkoLeonid Ivanovich. Please make a brief decision to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u309	Your Honor! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! In 30 years of my judicial work, half of which I have been a judge, I have experienced little or no small reforms, but neither have I been brought to a logical conclusion. On the contrary, some reforms have had negative consequences in terms of bringing justice closer to people. For example, in the light of the minor judicial reform of 2002, the Presidium was abolished in the District Courts as a procedural body which, on the protest of the Prosecutor and the President of the Regional Court, could review the sentences and decisions of the first instance where violations were committed. What did that lead to? All cases in cassation were squandered by the Supreme Court of Ukraine, where thousands of cases had been copied and hadn't been considered in years. That is why, if you remember, you and I adopted a special ruling in 2006 from the Supreme Council of Ukraine and sent all these cases from the Supreme Court of Ukraine to the Courts of Appeal for consideration. We didn't have another way out then. Therefore, while not diminishing the status of the Supreme Court of Ukraine as a supreme judicial body, I believe that the proposed Presidential Bill should be supported, thereby disposing of the Supreme Court of Ukraine from re-trial proceedings, which would satisfy the interests of citizens in the timely examination of judicial cases. There has been some discussion that the bill has allegedly reduced the powers of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. We consider it a mistake. Dear colleagues, let us consider whether it is the case of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to deal with thousands of cases of land division, garages and so on. In our view, the Supreme Court of Ukraine must first and foremost direct judicial practice to the Power in order not to bring justice to the Lugansk or Lviv, but to ensure uniform application of the law throughout Ukraine. The Supreme Court, as the highest authority in the justice system, will deal with cases that have not been resolved in the highest specialized courts. There is therefore no reason to believe that the Supreme Court of Ukraine is limited in its powers. With regard to the activities of the courts of the first instance and second instance, no special amendments to these bills have been introduced. However, the salaries of judges have increased significantly, depending on the jurisdiction of the courts. The bill fixed the financing of the courts by a separate line in the State budget, which had always been declared before, but had never unfortunately been implemented. The courts have always been funded on a residual basis, and over the years of independence, units of court buildings have been built where all conditions for the normal administration of justice would be met. And what's the nature of it. Presidents come to power and immediately begin to promise that I will take all measures to properly finance the courts. Then they leave, and the courts remain in a state of poverty. And it is only in this bill that every court is actually financed by a separate line in the State budget, which immediately solves many problems. The bill radically modifies approaches to the formation of the judiciary. First of all, a single Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine is established, with the aim of eliminating differences in the determination of criteria for the professional readiness of judges for the administration of justice. The appointment of judges is fairly transparent. The candidate must undergo special theoretical and practical training at the national school of judges of Ukraine, then pass the qualification examination, after which he is required to be selected for competition, then his candidature is examined by the Supreme Council of Justice and a submission to the President of Ukraine is made in a positive manner. Such a procedure would limit the appointment of judges of persons of chance. At the end, we will have a highly professional judicial corps, which all citizens of Ukraine await. The question of the appointment of judges to administrative posts was already an illustration in the language. What makes you so squirming? Today, the President of the Court is deprived of all procedural and decision-making powers and can no longer encourage or discipline his own staff. In accordance with his powers as established by the bill, he is deprived of the ability to influence judges in making specific decisions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill lays down rules that allow for the removal of the fibula in the trial of specific cases, the fibula is a terrible scourge of justice. First of all, the practice of bringing the criminal case back to further investigation and civil proceedings has been resolved by a court that has already rendered decisions in this case. Such cases had previously been referred from court to court, the rulings had been overturned ten times, the parties had already died in the case, and the decisions had not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u310	The Committee's conclusion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u311	The Committee also considered an alternative bill No. 6451 of the Ukrainian People's Deputy Yuri Anatoleevich Karmazin, but did not find support for the Committee. The third bill was not considered in committee at all. Therefore, I would like to support the bill submitted by the President, which was supported by a majority vote at the meeting of the Committee on Justice. It was decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider it on first reading and adopt it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u312	Thank you. Have a seat, please. People's deputies would like to sign up for a discussion. First the factions, then the people's MP. Yes. Please record the national MPs. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Olga Bodnar will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u313	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, we are considering today the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. It's a very important question, I would say, even a very loud one. The whole post-Radians time, i.e. all 20 years of reforming, or fundamentally reforming the judicial branch of power, but with every reform, the situation in the judicial sphere of power is getting worse and worse. The situation is so complicated that the average citizen no longer knows where to go, who to turn to, who to worship, and where to seek protection. And everyone concerned by this situation is looking for a way out of this situation. After all, there is such an estimate that there is a ruin at the site of the judicial branch of power today. I can tell you that there are more and more judges in election meetings. Because some voters believe that if a judge stands before them once for four or five years and his fate depends on the electorate, he will behave differently. I am convinced that such an idea has the right to exist. I mean, the faction of Communists is not just concerned, but very concerned about the situation in the judicial sphere. We're in the order of things. We are for the court to be as honest, fair as possible, as transparent and as independent as possible, and more precisely dependent on its greatness. We have a lot of comments and warnings about the first bill, and especially about the second and the third. In particular, we are concerned about the position that the Supreme Court of Ukraine is denied both rights and the possibility of protecting the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens. And today it's a problem. We find this to be wrong because specialized courts cannot fully replace the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Once again, I emphasize that we have a number of other comments to drafts. But despite the observations we have, the faction votes in favour of the first-reading project, the need to move in the direction of solving the problem. I mean, once again, the faction will vote in favour of the first document just because it is necessary to open the way to a normal mature reform of the judicial branch. If the document does not undergo substantial changes during the preparatory phase for the second reading, the faction of the Ukrainian Company in the second reading will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u314	Yes, please, Bodnar Olga, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Behind her is Chechtev. That's what Soboljevo says, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u315	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The honourable experts who drafted this bill! I'd like to stop at just three key points. I understand that the President has waived his right, which is enshrined in the Constitution for the selection of judges for the first term. It is the President's right, although it is a constitutional norm, he introduces it, he is the guarantor of the Constitution, and he himself determines his powers in this way. Clearly, this is unconstitutional. And I don't think that depends on who's president of the state: Yanukovich, Yushchenko, Kuchma or Krawczuk. This depends on what authority is established in the Constitution. In this bill, we see clearly that this power is actually lost by the President. And that's what the President and the legal community should be worried about. But I'm more concerned about other things. In fact, the Supreme Council is being removed from the key issue, this is the selection and removal of judges. A key chapter concerning the selection of judges and the direct appointment of judges for a term defined by the Constitution is granted the right of the relevant committee of inquiry only to agree or not to accept those nominations that are submitted to Parliament. Parliament has not been able to influence this process at all from this point on. Moreover, a new original standard is being introduced. In the event that the judge has not passed through the jury, he may submit an unlimited number of times, albeit 20 times, for the purpose of voting 30 times. Now you know, we have a legal procedure -- only once a judge can apply for a judge on an indefinite basis. The second block of questions that I think is equally important. This is a matter of the role and place of the judicial system and directly of the Supreme Court. In fact, according to the standard proposed in the bill today, we don't need an organ like the Supreme Court at all. We will have three key higher courts now, and more than that, the order for their unification is not at all understandable. How can a criminal and civilian chamber be linked to a single higher body? And how they're going to deal with things in which specialization is completely unclear. But then, in fact, the Supreme Court as an organ ceases to exist. Because he has the right to consider only cases where there are direct contradictions between two higher courts. He can't deal with other things. The third block of questions. Question, what exactly does a citizen get from this judicial reform? Yes, there's no doubt about it. But how does this reduction take place? If we analyze all the changes and additions proposed in the first reading, they actually don't make it easier, but they make it even more difficult for a citizen to access. That is why our faction proposes not to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u316	Please, Chechetov, Dmitri Mikitovich Pritika, gives the floor to the Party of the Regions. “Our Ukraine”, Carmazin prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u317	Honorable national MPs, the role of justice in Ukraine is vital both for society as a whole and for the further development and establishment of the judicial system of our state. Regrettably, there are still countless violations of the work of the courts at all levels. It became a state-wide term, such as the raiding, which was carried out with the help of the judiciary, illegal property redistribution, privatization programs, and so forth. All of this shows that the level of judiciality needs to be improved in a qualitative way. This requires not only the demands of our citizens, our society, but the requirements of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, ratified by Ukraine back in 1997, for the protection of the right to justice. The basic principles of independence of the United Nations, the Convention on Human Rights, detail the principles on which the judicial system is to be based. These principles of judicial independence are, in my opinion, fully implemented in the draft Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, which was developed by a working group under the direct leadership of the President of Ukraine. This law is the first step in reforming other state institutions, law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, law enforcement agencies, lawyers, notaries, and so on, of course, the adoption of new procedural codes in the future. In the absence of time, I will stop at just some novels that I think deserve attention. The bill introduces a new order for the selection of candidates and the appointment of a judge for the first time. In particular, special training, theoretical training in specialized law-based higher education level 4th level of accreditation and practical training at the National School of Judges of Ukraine are being introduced. The procedure for preparing candidates for judges will be paid in full at the expense of public funds, as such training must be free of charge and at the expense of the State, in accordance with international standards. This is also reflected in the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, independence, effectiveness and role of judges. The participation of the President of Ukraine in the procedure for appointing a judge will only be a formal test of compliance with the selection procedure and the appointment of judges. The other one. According to the draft law, all matters relating to the election and release of judges elected on an indefinite basis, the conduct, inspection, examination of appeals by natural and legal persons should be decided according to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Justice, the vast majority of which will be made up of judges. The bill introduces democratic forms of judicial authority that meet the requirements of the Venice Commission. In general, the bill is aimed at openness and accessibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u318	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u319	the promotion of the authority of the judiciary, trust in the courts and authorities. And I call on the people's deputies to support this presidential project and to accept it as a basis. With regard to the alternative projects that we have heard today, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin also presented his project, YuriProkopchuk. I think that the proposals of some norms, which are positive and promising, can be included in the presidential project, when preparing it for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u320	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u321	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” faction, the Party of Fatherland’s Defenders. Honorable fellow MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! The law that we are currently considering, at the rate at which we are considering it, starting with yesterday's submission only yesterday, was handed out, the expert conclusion was delivered today, all the regulatory rules violated when others are considered, including alternatives, can be renamed the Law “What Can You Please, Victor Federovich?” because you need to tell the report now at 16:00. Therefore, the law of “what will you choose? ” I would like to speak on behalf of the faction today, will not be supported because there are violent violations of the Constitution. For example, article 12 of the President's draft: “Participants who do not speak the language of the case and who violate the issue of ensuring that the process is conducted in a different language, the court ensures that the process is conducted in such a language or allows the use of translation services.” I'd like you to think about it. In Ukraine a number of migrants are delayed, some desert or Indian is delayed, and says: “I want you to conduct the process in the voodoo language. Such a tribe is, I have the right, because you have written it in the law.” And that means you're going to be in that language. What are you doing? Next. I'd like someone on the committee, and the committee to consider this issue, and now decent people are speaking. I'm very ashamed to look at the committee even without the conclusion of the Scientific and Scientific Administration at all. How could that be? There's the Law of the Rules. Where's the limit on that breach? When will they stop? Do we want to build justice like that? On all infringements, build some kind of justice? Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am addressing your unit of the same name and you. It is now proposed to create such a novel, the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters. “Eat with rope” you offer! So what? That's the way it's been. The Ukrainian Court of Cassation had already been declared unconstitutional by our reference to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. This is a December 11, 2003, decision. And now you're on the same rake again and you're saying it's all good. No, it's bad. The destruction of the military courts is a direct damage to the defence. You're working directly against the state. Next. Violation of article 89, part 1, of the Constitution. You're taking away the rights of the Supreme Council committees and the National Deputies. As a result, the faction “Our Ukraine” will support alternative bills and vote against the Ukrainian President's project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u322	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know that Yuri Anatolyevich is a law-abiding deputy. And if we were to violate the Rules, he would not be involved. And he's doing quite an active act right now, so we're not violating anything. First. The other one. There'll be a line. The other one. Dear colleagues, we're running out of time, so I'd like the agreement of the session room to give me the opportunity to do so. I'd like to give you another opportunity from the opposition factions. Then give the opportunity to speak to the Chief of the Supreme Court. And be determined by the law. Thus, “Our Ukraine ” continues the discussions of Moses. And from the "Timoshenko Block" to prepare Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u323	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Realizing that the Presidential Law on Sudokus is still being upheld -- and somewhere else, part of the faction of “Our Ukraine” -- I would like to make some remarks to this law. First of all, respectable colleagues, fundamental remarks. They've been said little, but I'd like to talk to you about judiciality. Part two of article 12 of the draft law provides for the regionalization of the judiciary, that is, where the population speaks in a language other than that of Ukraine. Honorable Colleagues and Lawmakers! The Constitution of Ukraine requires only two categories of civil servants to speak the national language: the judge and the President of Ukraine. And so as we go through the regionalization of the judiciary, we force a judge who knows Ukrainian to speak Russian. I am not saying that this is a violation of article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine and of the numerous decisions made in this matter by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Next. In fact, I am concerned about the destruction of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Article 26 predicted that he was the highest judicial authority in the system of courts of general jurisdiction, and by combining this issue with the creation of a new criminal and civil court, we conclude that there are no courts of general jurisdiction in Ukraine at all. And the Supreme Court, if we leave him with only 20 people and only two functions: to review cases after higher courts in case of uneven application of the law and after the European Court of Justice rulings, which will be one, two decisions a year, then let's go through the liquidation of the Supreme Court, he will have no work to do. With regard to the same application of legislation, a court that doesn't listen to civil, criminal, farm cases will qualify as lower than any court in the first instance in these matters. Next, to the approval of the High Council of Justice, article 131 of the Constitution recognized these powers only in three paragraphs, and there is no appointment of judges for administrative positions. There is a corresponding decision of October 16, 2001, where it is similarly written: it is not the authority of the Supreme Court. Therefore, these positions in preparation for the second reading will have to be brought into line with the Constitution. I want to point out that the system of judicial self - government is being destroyed. Dear colleagues, a proportional representation is envisaged for the convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u324	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u325	proportional representation for a meeting of judges, the same as all jurisdictions of the courts. But the courts of general jurisdiction make up two thirds more than the judges of specialized courts. And another, the council of judges is made up of 35 members, where 22 of them will represent the higher specialized courts at the same proportion as I said. The Supreme Court has been removed from court formation and liquidation and so forth. And last of all, when there are 20 judges in the Supreme Court, when there are 100 today. By natural selection, we suggest that we wait 13 years when they are only 20 years old. Do you understand? It's not a reform, it's a delay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u326	Thank you. Sergei Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u327	Dear Adam Ivanovich, regardless of your discussion with Mr. Carmazin, and your distinguished colleagues! We should mention the following, well, first of all, really, the judicial reform has matured a long time ago, and really, it needs to be carried out. I think that's it. There's no doubt about any of the deputies in this room right now outside this room. However, reform must be carried out with balance, for the judicial system has so much effect on the work of the State machinery that it can simply destroy the State machinery itself and the principles of democracy in society. So the first thing that's surprising is that the bills are being tabled in the "today" regime, are being voted in the "today" regime, there is no way to implement the regulatory rule and for 14 days to submit alternative bills, because I personally know that there are a number of alternative bills that MPs have not been able to submit within two days of the registration of the first bill. So I'd like to ask the chairman and take this question into account. As for the global conceptual principles that I personally, as a lawyer, cannot agree with part of the bill proposed by the President. Indeed, it has been repeatedly said that this bill grants the Supreme Council of Justice powers that are not provided for in the current Constitution. Indeed, Mr. Moses referred to the Constitutional Court’s decision of October 16, 2001, in case No. 1-8/2001, which reads: “The Constitutional Court has thus concluded that the content of the Constitution does not give rise to the recognition of the Supreme Court of Justice of the application of the appointment of judges for administrative positions in the courts of general jurisdiction and the dismissal of them. I mean, the Constitutional Court made a very clear statement about the powers of the High Council of Justice. I understand that in Ukraine the Constitutional Court can change its legal position, make the opposite decisions. But I think it's probably something to put an end to and rely on the right, not the desire of someone. I think it's absolutely right that the proposal in the Karmazin bill is about the possibility of appointing judges to administrative positions by electing them as appropriate groups of judges. And actually, there's another very simple proposal: and let's assign the court's leadership not for five years as proposed by all the bills, but for one year and without the right to second office or to be elected to that position not earlier than five years later. And all the questions will be removed, and there will be no such discussion about the appointment of administrative posts. With regard to citizens' access to justice. Indeed, this thesis is declared, but it is totally not implemented by the bill that is being passed on behalf of the President. Because the main and urgent issue is not resolved: The issue of the loading of judges. We have courts in which a judge handles thousands of cases during the year, and he does not physically.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u328	All of it. Please, the last sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u329	There are courts in which judges deal with thousands of cases throughout the year, and they do not have the capacity to physically invest in the terms prescribed by law. This is the basis for their release for breaking an oath. So we hang up the entire court system essentially, allowing them to be accused of breaking their oaths when they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u330	Thank you. Please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, 3 minutes. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u331	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Thank you for the opportunity to address you. And I'd just like to put my finger on what they say will be the result of the reform of the judicial system. Of course, for example, the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Here are 20 judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Today it's 95. The question is: Why 20 — not 30, not 40, not 50? And why does the law need to be regulated? What if tomorrow the number of cases increases or changes the situation? That's one question. Next. The Supreme Court will, in fact, cease to exist as a judicial body, the highest judicial body. Why? But because only after the Strasbourg European Court of Human Rights, the Constitutional Court, and when five judges of a specialised court, the Supreme Economic or Administrative Court, will take a decision, can you imagine that a complaint and a case will be brought before the Supreme Court? You talk to us, the citizens come to us, and we say we can't, go to the five judges of the specialized court, let them solve the problem. Now here's another one. Look at the Supreme Court of Commerce, there are 30 chambers and colleges, 30 are actually 30 courts of different courts dealing with bankruptcy in other disputes, in the 11 Supreme Administrative Court of 11 chambers, and if this specialized court of inquiry is there there will be about 60 more chambers. This is 100 courts that will do justice. And after these 100 courts, all these cases will go to the plenary session of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And the Supreme Court is composed of a civil, criminal, administrative, and chamber of commerce. How can we resolve the business when five professionals on the farm issue, the process of material law, and criminals and others do not fully control the situation and vote by the majority? Such a court is influenced in an elementary way. What do we get? We get hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens not to go to the Supreme Court, but to Strasbourg. There will be a dot, in justice there will be an end. I'm not saying it's left. Supreme Court, Explanations, Plenary, Other Questions You know what, I'll be honest with you, all over Ukraine, if someone doesn't like Onopenka or hates Onopenka, it doesn't have anything to do with the Supreme Court or the judicial system. I'm willing to resign today, but don't break the judicial system, don't break the Supreme Court, because this Ukraine will be without it. And the last. The assignment of the superintendent, we've already made a mistake by making a monster from the High Council of Justice. Today, you know what the judges are afraid of? Making legal decisions. There has never been such a thing in Ukraine, making legal decisions!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u332	Finish up, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u333	And I have to agree, if they do, you have to do it by law, no, I'm going to be torn to pieces tomorrow. And that's true. So let's say, the Venice Commission, I like Carmazin's project, and the rest of us, let's think about it together, and we'll make a decision more responsible for the judicial system, more than Ukraine, more than people, more ordinary people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-03-m0.u334	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm voting on the proposal, I'm reminding you again that today we're only going to vote for acceptance as the basis for the first reading. So all those who want to make their proposals, what they're talking about here, will have the absolute right to do it within two weeks. The draft Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, author of the bill by the President of Ukraine, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[15:07:41]] For 247 The Law was adopted in the first reading. By factions, please don't break up, dear colleagues. Region Party – 171, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 20, Our Ukraine – 7, Communists – 27, Litvina Block – 19, non-fractional – 3. Respectful colleagues, in view of the adoption of the law in the new edition on the judiciary and the status of judges, have a perfectly logical proposal. Bill number 6450-P on the adoption of the Supreme Council Order on the withdrawal of certain bills and the loss of validity of decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The point is that all the bills, and they are listed in this decree, 59, which apply to the law that we have now passed, should be removed from the consideration and 7 bills that were adopted in the first reading, but also relate to this bill, which we have now voted for, to recognize rulings that have become invalid in connection with, once again, the adoption on the basis of this bill. Most importantly, when preparing for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, take into account the proper provisions of the draft laws set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this decree. I'll bet you a vote, please. [[15:09:34]] For 244 Copy that. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote on two small decisions. First. Let's take the basis of Bill 5535, there's one sentence: the word “three” changes to “seven” continuing innovative projects. Please vote. Vote. [[15:10:11]] For 237 Who's in favour of taking the general vote, please. Vote. [[15:10:30.]] For 236 Copy that. I would like to support the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Ukraine's 2010-2020 Innovation Strategy for Globalisation of Challenges. We vote in favour of this decision in the first reading. Please vote 5421. [[15:11:05]] For 257 The draft decree in the first reading was adopted. Dear colleagues, thank you for your operational, meaningful work. At this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. In accordance with our decision, we do not spend the evening meeting, although the time we needed to use today, we made full use of it during the morning session. Please, the national deputies are invited to the “Ukraine” hall, the buses are waiting to hear the President's Address to the Ukrainian people. Tomorrow the session will begin at 10 a.m. Thank you.
