ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u1	Now, please prepare the national deputies for registration. I'm not violating the Rules, I closed the proceedings, closed yesterday's session. Please prepare for registration now. Thank you for telling me that yesterday after you left the session room, I didn't resume the meeting, I didn't make all the decisions. We'd be walking today. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:25]] They registered cards in the 423 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, the list of issues to be considered today, you have. No, there won't be a faction of the performances, just like there won't be a break to block the rostrum. Let's work. My fellow Members, I propose that we now turn to questions related to the proposals made by national deputies and committees for parliamentary hearings, but please note that, in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have already decided to hold parliamentary hearings in September, October, November, December and January, that is, we no longer have the right to make the following decisions in accordance with the Rules. But at the same time, since there are appropriate suggestions, let us take a quick look at these questions. And I'm asking you, my fellow Members, to draft a decree to hold parliamentary hearings so that we can consider a reduced procedure. So I ask you to prepare for the vote, and we will now vote on this proposal. I am putting to the vote a proposal to consider draft regulations on the conduct of parliamentary hearings under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:04:19]] For 246 Decision taken. I would like to announce a draft resolution on Parliamentary hearings on "Contemporary status of social morality in Ukraine, problems and prospects, and the state of compliance with legislation in this area". [[November 2010]] [[Registration number 3554]] The rapporteur is the national MP, Danilenko Volodymir Andryovic. Is Vladimir Andriyovich there? Please, out of the way. Turn on the microphone. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u2	The distinguished presiding, respected national MPs, the modern situation of social morality in Ukraine is disturbing, as there is a clear moral and spiritual degradation of society. Increasingly, negative trends have been observed, disregard for aesthetic standards, traditional moral and spiritual values that have formed in society for a long time. The reason for such a pernicious country with centuries of history of social morality in society is not only the absence of perfect legislation to protect citizens from the negative influence of information on personal development but the carefree policies of the state and the activities of its apparatus as a whole. It is clear that the current state of social morality in Ukraine and the state of compliance with legislation in this area require extensive discussion with the involvement of all competent authorities of the State, local government, enterprises, institutions, organizations to improve the coordination of their activities, the adoption of appropriate recommendations, the achievement of mutual understanding with a view to improving the protection of social morality. The aim of hearings is to create the necessary legal and socio-economic principles aimed at preventing the rise in the impact of negative morals on the development of citizens and social morality in general. The result is to approve parliamentary hearings for the non-admissibility of further spiritual moral degradation of society and to ensure the development and upbringing of a worthy person, a Ukrainian citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u3	Yes, thank you. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u4	Dear Ukrainian voters! Dear National Deputies! Of course, the issue that has been brought forward is very relevant today for Ukraine, especially for Ukrainian politicians, and especially for the Ukrainian authorities, which I think has already pushed to the last level that can only be. For imagine when the regionals blocked the rostrum for almost a few months, demanding that in two, three times the salary for the Ukrainians, for the few rich, and when they came to power today, these prices actually raise twice as much from all of this. Because of this, of course, the issue needs to be discussed. But I don't think it's empirical, but it's moral or moral. That's why we're blocking the rostrum today. In general, the committee supports this discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Two — “for”, two — “against”. Please put your name on the board. Mikhailo Chechetov, microphone. Oleg Lazko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Yesterday was the day of the opposition. Most provided the most comfortable conditions for the opposition to consider its agenda, and we were ready to participate in the consideration, but for unreasonable reasons yesterday the opposition refused to consider its issues. We're working in normal mode today. We are. I'm talking to the radio audience, and we're grateful for the constructive opposition that it gives us the opportunity to work productively today, yes. I think we will deal with the whole agenda productively today and make a decision accordingly. With regard to parliamentary hearings, Vladimir Mihajlovich is absolutely right, we have fully filled out the days when these January hearings can be held in the sessional room. But on the other hand, we have committees, we have a committee, we have a platform, we have a committee rostrum, and we can hold serious hearings on the committees even at a time when the network is complete. I therefore propose this question and the next question, they are indeed serious to hear from the committees at the committee hearings. Thank you, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u7	Oleg Lazko, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”. Vladimir Karpuk will be next. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u8	Oleg Lazko, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”. What is the situation of social morality in Ukraine when a parliament that is supposed to express the interests of society does not reflect these interests? Please see what issues today are included in the agenda that, according to a well-established coalition, are most relevant: draft bill on circulation of bills, draft factoring law, draft factoring law, draft law on changes to the Cabinet of Ministers Act. This is what the present authorities consider to be the most relevant. The “BUT – “Paternity” faction insists on a first-line debate in Parliament: the introduction of a moratorium on gas prices, the introduction of a moratorium on raising tariffs in housing and utilities, the introduction of a moratorium on higher retirement age, and the introduction of tax breaks for small and medium-sized businesses. We believe that these are the first issues to be addressed in Parliament today. People good, yesterday's parliamentary newspaper, Odessa's own correspondent, Voronkova's prices are changing three times a day in stores. Today, food is lost in stores because people have nothing to buy it for, not to mention, that there is nothing to pay for services and gas. And you and I are looking at the situation of social morality. There will be no social morality in the country until Parliament responds to the challenges of today. Today, if there is morality in the country, especially in power, millions of money must be spent not on building roads to the hand of the President, but on spending money on protecting the poor. Today, if there is morality in the country, the government should sit in the press ’ bed and offer decisions that are available.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to continue speaking on the subject that is being discussed, otherwise the microphone will be turned off. And one more point: yesterday was an opportunity to discuss these issues, and we had to discuss them. Why not discuss them yesterday, these questions? To discuss and make decisions, I agree with you absolutely. Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u10	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”, the deputy faction “For Ukraine!” At first glance, the topic seems to be social morality in Ukraine. But it is suggested that such an irritable subject be discussed in Parliament, an organ that has long been a sign of immorality, sales, betrayal that we demonstrate every day. And first of all, if we talk about it, we need to talk about political morality, about the responsibility of the authorities for their actions, about the responsibility of the parties for what they declared when they went to the elections. Because the authors of the bill at one time shame financial and oligarchic groups, at the same time, work with them daily and vote in a way that is convenient for financial and oligarchic groups. Thus, it is even a sign of immorality and of many politicians. And if we discuss this question from the point of view: from the point of view of the builder of communism or from the point of view of Christian morality, which teaches “no betrayal, do not steal”. And this is really a very painful question, but not for such an organ. There is a lot to work on, because politicians, and especially before the elections, are becoming, in fact, not the people who have the right to discuss these things. That's why I'm against discussing it in the walls of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u11	Valentina Matviev, Communist faction. One minute, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u12	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, I'd like to address you. All those who have signed up now to discuss the matter are speaking out of place. For some reason, you give individual deputies the right to speak from the rostrum. Let's make a deal, if everyone else is, and it's not possible to isolate someone special. The other one. I think there is no doubt that the issue that we are now discussing is the question of holding parliamentary hearings on the subject of “Contemporary status of social morality in Ukraine”, it does not call into question this importance in most of our citizens, in most of our societies. That's why we insist, a faction of Communists, that a decision be made on our behalf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u13	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u14	We insist that a vote be taken to ensure that this decision to hold parliamentary hearings, on behalf of the faction of the Danilenko People's Deputies, is supported by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft decision on parliamentary hearings on: “Contemporary status of social morality in Ukraine, problems and prospects, on the state of compliance with legislation in this area” November 2010. On the basis and in general, as the committee suggests. At the same time, I inform you, dear colleagues, that parliamentary hearings are already scheduled for November-month on the theme “The state of industrial security and labour protection”. Please identify yourself with that. [[10:15:56]] For-37 The decision is not taken. There is a proposal to commission a committee to organize and hold committee hearings, and the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide the necessary organizational and technical assistance to this committee. As for Valentin Grigorovich Matthews' observation about the performances from the venue, or from the rostrum. In accordance with the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reports and reports and presentations in the discussion are made from the rostrum. So please approach the rostrum and speak. Dear colleagues! I would like to announce a draft resolution on Parliamentary hearings on the question "To uphold human rights in the internal affairs of Ukraine". [[November 10, 2010]] Registration number 6640. Similarly, we already have parliamentary hearings scheduled for November. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on the Legislative Protection of Sweden's Law Enforcement Activities, Viktor Dmitrovich. Turn on Victor Dmitrovitch's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In such circumstances, I consider the extremely important issue of human rights in internal affairs to be of no value and wrong. The point is that this is an extremely important issue, it affects the interests of millions of Ukrainian citizens, the abuse of the police and the lawlessness that is taking place in internal affairs. It needs very careful and careful consideration and parliamentary control. But in view of the fact that the Supreme Council is currently virtually unable to work properly, since the Party of Regions has blocked the rostrum and there is no possibility for the committee to report this bill properly, and given that Vladimir Mikhailovich, you said that it is impossible to hold parliamentary hearings this year, since all months when other questions could be done, I ask you to postpone this consideration to the next session. And now I suggest we look at the issues that are most relevant and important -- the question of a moratorium on price increases. This is what millions of Ukrainian citizens are now concerned about. As for the protection, constitutional protection of citizens' rights and freedoms in internal affairs, the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection organizes committee hearings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, there is an offer from the committee to remove this issue from the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to transfer it to the committee. There is no objection that we should then stop discussing the matter. And in order for us to have legal clarity and regularity, I propose that we now vote in favour. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's why I have an offer like this. Let me put, honourable colleagues to the vote on the draft decision. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support it, then we protocolly give the commission to the committee. Is there no objection? I'll put it to a vote. Take down the vote. Sign up for the discussion. Two — “for”, two — “against”. I'm sorry, I'm in a hurry. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Please turn on the microphone, Vladimir Karpuk, or turn on the microphone from the rostrum. Where will you be performing?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u18	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u19	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u20	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, thank you for your correction, for not allowing me to discuss it. I would like to tell you that this is a very important question. Today we will receive complaints that are serious, that no one is responding to, and that is not even responding to the submission of the Human Rights Council. Nina Ivanovna Karpachov, on account of what happened in Eupatoria, where a terminally ill captain of the first rank, a former seamaster was held for a month, prevented by a lawyer, chained up, asked questions, and said that they were tortures. That's how she qualified it, sent it to the Attorney General's Office. Reactions are zero, nothing's changed in Crimea. What is more, the police are involved in political divisions, there are teams of whom, and by name, even the last, are openly given in the meetings. The name of the People’s Deputy Goodima was used: Look for it because it interferes with gas issues and so forth. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, society should know that this was not even the case with Kuchma, these things should be "beated on the hands, on the feet" as it were, but not given, I mean conditionally beating, but not letting officials today abuse, trampling on the Constitution, is a sign of democracy. And if you want to know, we have to reject loving hearing, but hearing about people's rights in the Ministry, where they start again today, you know, and disappear people, and somehow die when the districts are taken away by normal, healthy people, we have to listen to Parliament, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if we want to be called a civilized society.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u21	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions, next will be Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u22	Respectable Vladimir Mihajlović, respected colleagues, has indeed been attached to the work of internal affairs bodies. It must be objective that the current leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs has received the heavy legacy of its predecessors: the police have practically broken down and the plagues of corruption have crossed, and the diletters in the militia's pursuits, because it is only by personal devotion that political bias has allowed the staff to be recruited and staffed in both the centre and the regions. But we have to pay tribute that he now came and became in the head of the MVD, not some desert dilettante, but became a real policeman to the bone brain, who went from a simple policeman to a minister and he began to set things straight. Yeah, it's hard, you can't do that one day, but order is indicated and the main thing is ensured. See, mass demonstrations took place in Kiev. She's an impeccable police officer. The rights were protected, no casualties, no clashes. The maximum was so that the kiews would not feel uncomfortable. Yeah, there's still work to do, but they're gonna have to be fixed. It is absolutely right that the question was raised at parliamentary hearings. However, since the network may be considered in the sessional room at parliamentary hearings, the month of January is over. Therefore, I propose the same thing, to allow the Committee to consider the matter, and indeed more to help Mr. Mogilev to put order in the country, the democratic order of the militia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u23	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, “BUT – Fatherland” faction. Microphone, please. Yeah, it's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u24	The microphone's not working. Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Timoshenko, Reforms and Order. Dear friends, it happened once, that we quietly observe the transformation of the behavior of people in pursuits or people with weapons. Well, especially: The UIC is involved in gas wars, not the security of the state. The army is actually being destroyed, 2 billion have been disbursed. The entire industrial complex that produced beautiful weapons is being destroyed, and there is no funding for this year. [[We've been in the tens of those with the best weapons.]] And the police provide political stability in the state, as some say, that is to say, to the Party of Regions in its plans. If someone says that the situation has not changed in Kiev, go to Kyivrada, but do not show your ID and badge, and no Chinese can get there. Today, in particular, five borders cover the entrance to Kyivrada. Is it that the police keep the peace of the Kiyevrada deputies who stole thousands of acres of land or something else? I would also like to draw attention to the fact that today the police are serving us here in such a way that we can approach the Supreme Council within three kilometers. In particular, I had to go to the hotel Ukraine and cross several borders here as a national MP. That's why the Chinese felt it. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are 33 articles of the Constitution that are being trampled on by today's police because it directly speaks of the freedom of movement of Ukrainian citizens in the territory of its state. So today, this is a very relevant issue. If a minister goes to a Cadillac country where he wants to go, a Ukrainian citizen from Ravensk, Mikolayivsk, Donetsk, Lugansk region cannot leave because someone suspects he is going to a rally in Kiev. So I want to point out that we're gradually turning into a police state that's kept at the expense of citizens and we're fighting these citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Question completed. I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt a bill for a parliamentary hearing on the theme "To uphold human rights in the internal affairs of Ukraine" as a basis and as a whole. [[November 10, 2010]] [[Registration number 6640]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:26:53]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Similarly, there is a proposal, honourable colleagues, to direct this draft decision to the committee, and the committee itself has shown a willingness to organize and conduct committee hearings with broad public participation. The secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will provide the necessary organizational, technical assistance. And one more moment, dear colleagues. You know that on Friday we have an hour of questions for the government. By the way, this plenary week has not received a proposal, a request for an hour of questions to the government. If there's a question to any minister, it could be done within an hour, and it could explain the problems that concern people today and, in fact, the national MPs who identify the representatives of the Ukrainian people. Yes, please, let us translate our conversations into practical terms. By the way, there was a suggestion that 10 numbers on Friday the Minister of Social Policy and Work would answer these painful questions. And by the way, opposition factions did not support this initiative, which came out of the mouth of the leader of the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Is that what happened? Yes. I would like to announce the draft Law on Parliamentary Hearings on Human Rights. Yes, I'm sorry, we've already voted on that. Next draft of the Parliamentary Hearings Decision on "The development of an information society in Ukraine in the interests of improving quality of life, ensuring permanent social, economic and environmental development". [[December 15, 2010]] At the same time, we already have parliamentary hearings on “Ukraine in the world” on December 8. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Lutsky Maksim Georgievovich. Maxim Georgiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. On July 7, 2010, the Science and Education Committee considered a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings on December 15, 2010, entitled “On the development of an information society in Ukraine in the interests of improving quality of life, ensuring permanent social, economic and environmental development”, and supported the proposal for their implementation. The draft decision proposes that parliamentary hearings be held in which broad public debates continue with the aim of modernizing appropriate national policies. The committee supported the proposal from the following. First. Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic, in his letter to the Ukrainian people 03.06, suggested that 2011 be the year of education and information society. The other one. The previous parliamentary hearings on the subject took place in 2005. And the relevant recommendations of the hearings were approved by Parliament. In 2007, the Ukrainian Law “On Basic Principles for the Development of Information Society in Ukraine 2007-2015” was adopted, which was approved by the government on 15 August 2007. But new technologies are rapidly developing, and globalization challenges of a social, economic and environmental nature have increased, and their impact on the future development of the world, countries and nations has increased. The time has come to summarize what has been done and to update the guidelines for further development. And the third. The state and problems of the information society in Ukraine were repeatedly discussed at meetings of the Committee on Science and Education, an advisory council on information issues at the Supreme Council. In these efforts, it was recommended that broad discussions be held on the further development of the information society in Ukraine. To sum up, Parliamentary hearings are a necessary step to analyse the implementation of the laws and regulations adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and ratified international agreements on the development of an information society.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u27	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u28	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! Please ask me what you're talking about. Two in, two in. Please give Ivan Grigorovitch the floor. Vladimir Bondarenko is transferring the right to speak. Yuri Carmazin will speak after Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u30	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Order”. I point out that this question is really very relevant. But its relevance and fate are not worth the problems that are present in society today. The point is that people just can't survive at those prices at those tariffs. And unfortunately, the Supreme Council and the Committees of the Supreme Council are ignoring this position. And we're going to make sure that it's considered. And as for the information society, let me tell you. Such pressure on the Internet, on bloggers, on individual Internet publishers, which is being implemented today by the Ukrainian Security Service, tells us that we are approaching the sub-heavenly where Victor Fedorovich recently traveled, in fact, confused the state with some cities because he made interstate agreements with Hong Kong and Shanghai, forgetting that China is the highest representative of the state. Nevertheless, the Internet is currently banned in China. There's no way to communicate openly. We've got it so far. Therefore, these readings must be conducted. And the purpose of this exercise should be to adopt later or earlier the law of Ukraine prohibiting interference in the free exchange of information in the Internet system. Restrictions can apply only to pornographic products, pornographic sites, and calls for war or terrorism. Everything else should walk freely, no one can block these sites. By the way. I want to tell you, today, when I look at the contents of some of the sites, I notice that the appearance of a lot of sharp publications might end in 15 minutes, and you won't even be able to find them in the archives. So the point is that someone is now, and who, we know, is now involved in the sphere of activity that is open throughout the free world. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u31	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u32	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable national deputies are certainly holding such hearings in time. We have to think about what we can do to improve the information security of society, and I would express myself there. What is more, I think we need to get back to the end by bringing together all the topics that we talked about, because today people are being harassed when they're sitting in cold apartments, and I don't think they're going to want to read the Internet very much in cold and hungry. And also the lack of such a public tool to obtain operational reliable information, such as the creation of a single state system for monitoring production, supply, transport, consumption and payment of fuel and energy resources and housing and utility services. And Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to point out that this is also the development of an information society. And we passed the corresponding Law 0954. This law, despite what has already been written to you several times, is not being considered because it was among those calls, accepted, but is essential in order to prevent an unobjective rise in consumer and industrial prices, tariffs, energy, heat and water supply services, is exactly what prices are made up of. People need to understand that they are made up of half the costs, the corruption costs. That's why I'm going to vote in favour of this ruling. But I urge you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and to return to the question of Law 0954 as one that the state needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u33	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that the urgency of our colleagues’ daily parliamentary hearings is high. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we haven't had parliamentary hearings on social issues in a long time ago in this session hall. What's more, you've seen how recently the consideration of social legislation has turned into a mere act of common sense or a desire to tempt your political opponents. Such a policy “to evil ” turns into new losses in the material welfare of the people. [[in quotes]] This is me addressing our former coalition, and today's opposition. Let us hold parliamentary hearings on the issue of: “Stand of pension and prospects for development”. You focus on those three months or five months of retirement. It is not that, but that the pension reform in Ukraine has stopped since 2003. Dear colleagues, the solidarity pension system is in crisis all over the world, but if in the late 1990s European countries we have found an adequate response to the challenges, we are still engaged in wasteful speech. Realize that our pension today does not ensure life-changing, our pension is not human property. Our pension system is confusing and confusing, it does not provide social justice, it does not depend on the size of the salary, nor on the length of the internship. We need to start a pension reform immediately, not to talk about age or age. Canada went a different way, not age, but level two and level three, what we stopped at, a mandatory accumulation system and a voluntary accumulation system. Otherwise, a solid pension system will fail sooner or later. Respectful colleagues, social populism, and social populism are exhausted, remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee on adoption as a basis and in the whole of the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on "The development of an information society in Ukraine in the interests of improving quality of life, ensuring permanent social, economic and environmental development". [[December 15, 2010]] [[Registration number 6431]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:38:50]] For-55 The decision is not taken. I propose that the committee should organize and hold committee hearings, and accordingly the Supreme Council of Ukraine will provide the necessary organisational and technical support for this work. Dear National Deputies! In view of the fact that I have to participate in the Council of Regions meeting with the heads of district administrations and district councils, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk will continue to hold meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u36	Let's go to the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on "Ensure Equal Opportunities for Women and Men. Problems and effective mechanisms for solving them." Here we have two projects: 6570 and the committee decision is 6570-d. [[The author of the initiative – National Deputy Heratchenko]] Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenka. You don't? Then I ask Zarubinski. And according to the National MP's draft, and the committee's position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u37	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The authors of the first decision. The draft rulings were on their way and they warned that they would not be able to be for good reasons. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting on 7 July 2010 discussed a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings on "To ensure equal opportunities for women and men. Problems and effective mechanisms for solving them." [[Number 6570]] The national deputies of Ukraine Heratchenko, Gerasimük, and Kondratjuk introduced the project. The purpose of the draft decision is to have a broad discussion and to produce effective mechanisms for ensuring equal opportunities between women and men. Members of the committee noted the relevance of the proposed hearings at the meeting, since the adoption of the Ukrainian law on the equal rights and opportunities of women and men did not solve all problems in this area. This law is a framework and requires further implementation in legislation, the development of its provisions in legislation, particularly in State-specific programmes, and there is also a need for a thorough analysis and a generalization of its application. The authors of the decree propose to hold parliamentary hearings on December 8, 2010. Along with the rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a parliamentary hearing schedule has already been set for the entire seventh session from September to January, including December. In support of the idea, the initiative of the National Deputies Heratchenko, Gerasimük and Kondratjuk and with the aim of optimizing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee approved: to hold a committee hearing in 2010, or as we call it, committee hearings on the subject: “The practice of applying the Ukrainian Law on the Equal Rights and Opportunities of Women and Men”. The relevant ruling is number 6570 members of the committee outside.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u38	All right, are we done? Can we please talk about this? Two – “for”, two – “against”, please sign in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u39	Yes, Alexander Stoyan, please, Carmazin, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u40	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, indeed, the subject of equality between men and women should be discussed in our Parliament. I'll say that's why, in recent times, opposition has been insisting that increasing retirement age is a disqualification of women, or oppression of women. And yesterday, I received some very interesting material, an international study, where it's just argued that women's retirement age should increase gradually. When we talk about equality, today we have to say that men retire at 60 years of age and live after that for 10 years, women retire at 55 years and live for another 25 years. There's probably an inequality on the other side. But that's one topic. And the second topic, really, is pay, child care, unequal pay. So I support the idea of holding parliamentary hearings. But since, as my colleague Zarubinski has said, there is no, they say, "today" for this work, I think that committee hearings will also produce results, and we will then need to confirm, perhaps at the meeting of the Supreme Council, the results. And the subject, indeed, of equality is relevant, and we really need to stop talking about gender policy, about gender equality, but we need to do it in our country. I support a committee hearing proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u41	Please, Yuri Carmazin. After him a minute of Paul’s time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in favour of these parliamentary hearings. Moreover, I would like to stress the need for the government to prepare a report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Equal Rights and Opportunities of Women and Men, which we adopted back in 2005. I say this before no one else as the current prime minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarov, said that there was nothing in his government to do to women. Usually, after such claims in civilized countries, they are either fired or retired. Actually, Mikola Janović began to release those who could be released, not even members of the government, but to. And the heads of the committees for that. It's illegal to do this to make this thesis a reality. Equality in retirement, which the regionals are talking about today and about increasing the retirement age for women, is going to cost our society too much because there are no preschool education systems, and all those grandmothers who were going to sit with grandchildren, they're now going to have to keep sitting at work. And why do I think that this will affect the birth rate, it will affect the deterioration of the quality of life of children, who still breathe ecologically today, drink such water, and eat food that is no better. Because in the West, if bread is sold in a store on the second day, it is distributed free of charge, if on the third day the meat falls in half. And we've got things going on. So the equality that the Regions offer is not the equality that leads to slavery. I'm here to talk about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u43	Yes, there are two contenders from the BUT faction. So I'm asking the faction leaders to tell me. Both Paul’s and Jaborius ’ request. Who? To Whom Can I First Give the Word? To whom should I give my word? I'm going to the faction manager. A car, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u44	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of the initiative. But I want a colleague to stop a little bit and say that gender equality is not just a pension. In general, women in society are judged throughout society and throughout the country. It's also the representation of women in power, it's the wage, it's the benefits that we give to women, because no one is the secret that women do their jobs in two or three changes: at work a woman does her duties at home. In addition, the woman is the first to fall during the contraction, especially if she is young and is about to give birth to a child and many other questions. So I wouldn't want to speculate on just pension issues. In general, in terms of women, no one is a coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u45	Please, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u46	Andry Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko – “The Fatherland”. Respectable compatriots! This is really an important topic: ensuring equal opportunities for women and men and problems in solving them. But today's power of Yanukovich-Azarov understands this equality very well. Because we see that the authorities raise the retirement age of women to five years, and men, by the way, and women, to five years, but they will start with women. So I think they really want equality, but equality in poverty. When people now don't have the ability to buy the necessary food, clothes, when there's an attack on citizens' social rights every day, prices go up, and the debt of wages doesn't go down, so they take three skins off men and women, sharply raising the price of gas and housing services. And I think it's both our husbands and women.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! He doesn't have two minutes, because he didn't sign up, he did. The guaranteed right to speak from the faction -- one minute when they didn't sign up. I'll bet. The question has been discussed. I put to the vote the proposal of the national deputy Heratchenko, number 6570, for a bill to hold parliamentary hearings on the subject: “Ensure equal opportunities for women and men. Problems and effective mechanisms for solving them.” At the same time, I also inform my esteemed colleagues that on the twelfth month, in December, we have scheduled parliamentary hearings: “Ukraine in the world”. “The Ukrainians in the world”, I'm sorry. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:49:57]] For-136 I've already told you, dear colleagues, that there is a proposal for a profile committee, we're tasking a profile committee to hold these parliamentary hearings. We should now listen to the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Situations and the Reasons for the Failure of the International Agreements between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova on the State Border. [[on the transfer of land in the Palanca and Giurgulesti settlements]] However, the author of the legislative initiative, our colleague Unguryan, asks that the matter be postponed in connection with my inability to report on my condition. I would like to support the proposal to move the matter forward. Please vote. [[10:51:11]] For 230 Offer supported. Next question is the withdrawal of Teryochin from the post of Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. Dear colleagues, in view of the need to hold some consultations and to clarify some points on the matter, I suggest that we postpone consideration of the matter. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:51:53]] For 244 I'm asking you to show the factions, let them see who's protecting who. Region Party – 158 for transfer, “BUT – Fatherland” – 18 only, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 16, Communists 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 19, non-fractional – 6. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't hold positions, that's good, but ask Teriochin. Who or what? Let's go to second reading. Bill 6687 – Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Buildings and Housing – on the Extension of Housing Support Measures. Reports from the Baranov Committee. Please come to the rostrum. Valérie, sit down. You'll be more comfortable and comfortable.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u48	Microphone, please. Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy considered at its meeting yesterday the draft Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Construction and Housing, was also considered. [[Number 6687]] Let us consider it in a second reading. There have been several comments from the General Legal Office. Almost all the comments were withdrawn and rejected. Serbia, a national deputy in which he proposed paragraph 4 of the first part of the first part of article 3 of the Act, to read: “The difference that arises between the credit rate and the current market rate shall be compensated at the expense of the State budget and shall not exceed by more than 2 per cent the level of the National Bank of Ukraine’. The committee rejected the offer. Next was Karmazin, a national deputy, paragraph 2 of the fourth article 3, which reads as follows: “This prohibition does not apply if the specified time limit for the adoption of a construction facility is carried over more than 18 months from the date of the promulgation of this law.” This is about the return of deposits. The committee rejected Karmazin’s amendment and gave up 30 months. Seribne’s proposal for land leases was further rejected by our committee. Lisova’s proposal, which reads as follows: “This law takes effect from the date of its publication” and states that since the date of entry into force of this law the effect of the sentence of the second part of article 27-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Territories has been halted for the period of Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Construction and Housing. It's all his work we've taken into account. And the last edit of Karmazin, which he proposes to do checks and not allow to be "Elita Centres" and everything else, we rejected it, because it, from our position, should not be in the law. The committee proposes to adopt the law in a second reading as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u49	Thank you. We're going to follow the amendments now, because what the committee's representative has reported is something that doesn't match what we have in the comparative table is the first. So when we go to a comparative table, we're going to specify some positions -- that's one point. And the second. I would ask my colleague Baranov to be careful that we work together now in the sense that there is a serious observation by the legal authorities that says that the requirements of article 116 of the Rules have been violated when they were introduced in the first reading of one article, and in the second reading you try to correct other articles. So let's get this straight. Yes, please 1 amendment, Comrade Carmazin. A microphone, please. It's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin. I didn't quite get it from the report today, because it's where it says it's not counted. And now I don't know, because I can see from the table that part of Carmazin's amendments are included. From what I just heard, I didn't hear they were counted. So I want to hear from the committee now or maybe some other decision has been made that we have not been given, even though it violates the Rules. I want to say that I have suggested that it is impossible to change the Civil Code, article 625. That's why I suggested that by January 1, 2013, I should have found that, in addition to the envisaged part of this fourth article, the ban on the interruption of physical and legal persons of any contracts resulting from the transfer of housing on the condition that 100 percent of them cannot be paid. That's why I want to understand whether we're completely canceling the 625th Civil Code or what the committee is proposing to do in this regard. Because that's the money people put in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u51	Yes, please, the position of the committee, Valeriy Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u52	The committee suggests leaving a valid editorial. The judiciary was against it, and the committee supported the position of the Legal Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u53	Yes, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of number one of Karmazin's colleagues, who was rejected by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:59:01]] For-9 Not supported. Please, 2 amendments, it's taken into account by the committee, but I mean, it's included in the table, but the committee said it wasn't counted. Please, Valery Alexiyovich, what's the position after Serbia's second amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u54	Yeah. After we received a decision from the Legal Office, we agreed with him, and Serbin agreed with us too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u55	I mean, so I'm going to ask my esteemed colleagues, please, please support the proposal that the 2th amendment of Serbia should not be taken into account, but rather leave the line that was adopted in the first reading. Please vote. Vote. [[11:00:03]] For 233 The first reading is left after the second amendment by a colleague of Serbians. Yes, 3 revisions. Carmazine, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin. I didn't realize at 3 am whether the committee counted it or not. It was about people making money, and the fines were no longer valid, and the law has been in force for a year. We wrote that this ban would not apply if the deadline for acceptance into operation was more than 18 months. Now it's proposed for 30 months, which is to add another year to 12 months. That's why I, and given the comments that science and expertise have made, and then the Chief Legal Authority, I want to understand that this is my amendment, whether it's counted or not. Because the original law was 18 months old, we're going on, we're translating it not into a budget, it's passed on to people, because the Serbian amendment is a budget translation, it's glory to God, it's a budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u57	Please, Valery Alexiyovich, the opinion of the Committee on the Third Amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u58	The first reading was 30 months. And the committee believes that since the crisis has not yet ended and construction has fallen to nearly 70 percent, the terms offered by a colleague of Carmazin are not economically viable. The committee counted 30 months and expressed that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u59	I'll bet. Although there is some kind of right about what Karmazin says. Now we're talking about the fact that the penalty for violating housing for people who have spent money is not a penny for 18 months. They want to continue this term for 30 months. Divide by 12, that's what, that's almost three years. So it's not exactly the right committee here, but it's his business. I'm voting on Amendment No. 3 of Comrade Carmazin. Please vote. [[11:03:02]] For-43 Once again, I'm sorry we didn't support it. That's too bad. Yes, 4 of Serbian correction. It's counted. But the committee said it wasn't counted. Please, Serbin? None. Valerius Alexiyovich, Baran’s microphone 4th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u60	This amendment is not counted. The committee has a different opinion, and we've been able to beat Serb's as well. And he agreed with us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u61	Well, then, dear fellows! Be careful. I put to the vote the proposal that questions related to the 4th amendment of Serbia, which the table says is included, the committee should leave these positions in the way it was adopted in the first reading. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:04:06]] For 232 Once again, the questions raised in the fourth amendment by a fellow Serbian colleague remain in the first reading. Please, 5 revisions. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u62	Yuri Carmazin. 5 amendment, it's counted. I thank you, and I think we should continue to improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u63	Yes, I've come to understand that I agree. What is the opinion of the 5th Amendment Committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u64	We've considered this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u65	They counted it. Yes, the 6th amendment of colleague Lisova counts. 6 readjustment included. Does anyone insist on her support? Is there no objection? So the 6th amendment is counted. 7th Amendment. Carmazine, overruled. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I think this amendment would improve the law. I would suggest, first of all, that when he takes the law, this law takes effect the day after it's published. That's the first one. And the second. Within two months of the publication of this law, the Government has been entrusted with the task of entrusting MINREGIONBUDA and other institutions with the verification of the failure of business entities involved in the use of housing funds, the terms of the contracts with these individuals. And prepare proposals for changes that make it impossible to abuse entrepreneurial activity, including checking how land leases are being implemented, because cities also abuse their rights. And they're also insulted here, let's say, by the builders. So I don't understand why we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u67	I'm putting to the vote the 7th amendment of colleague Carmazin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:06:33]] For-31 Not supported. Thus, all amendments to this bill have been voted on. There is a proposal for a profile committee to adopt in the second and in general a bill under number 6687 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Construction and Housing. [[on the extension of housing support measures]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:07:26]] For 210 The factions, please. Region Party – 162, “BUT – Fatherland” – 20, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 4, Communist faction – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 19, non-fractional – 5. I ask then one minute from the factions that offer. Sign up for factions, please. Yes, please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u68	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill has been worked for a long time, has been worked for a long time, has also been worked on by committees, and we have tried to take the proposals of deputies and builders into account, and have participated in drafting a bill from different factions, both in the majority and in the minority. In fact, there was a compromise that provided an opportunity to resuscitate and open the way for construction. You have to build buildings, build housing, build houses. And it may have been or may not have been understandable for those who failed to vote. There is a request for a re-voting of this matter. If there are any doubts about any factions, let them question what the law is or what the law is. In general, the law must open the prospect of building a construction industry in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u69	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u70	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that everyone wanted to improve the bill to make it possible for the construction industry to live on the one hand, and on the other hand to live and survive those people who put money there. And this balance, I think, has to be ensured on the basis of an additional thought that needs to be taken into account, the Chief Legal Authority, it needs to be installed here right now, and it needs to adopt the law then taking into account these observations, so let's say the balance of this law between business interests and people's interests. Making a law based on people’s interests is, of course, not entirely fair. That's why I'm here to work on a couple of articles right now and find consensus in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u71	Yes, please, Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u72	We do. I'm saying. I'm speaking on behalf of the BUT faction. We understand that there are more important laws, but given the difficult state of the building industry, our faction will give the missing 20 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u73	I'll explain. Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! It is known that in the first reading of this draft law, "On preventing the impact of the world crisis on the development of the construction sector." Article 3 established a moratorium on the termination of contracts, an 18 - month investment in housing, which was due on July 1. July 1st of this year! Hence, since July 1, citizens can also appeal to the court to break their respective contracts and raise money. Thus, the faction feels that it is not appropriate to continue the moratorium today because the people who have invested money in 100 percent of the buildings today can neither receive money nor wait for the construction to be completed. We ask the authors of the law, the faithful committee, to see.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u75	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u76	We ask the committee to take a closer look at this problem once again, and if the term “18 days” remains in the law that I spoke about, the faction will be ready to support the law in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u77	Please, Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! Distinguished representatives of the Communist Party faction! I would like to draw attention to the following. I think we just didn't have the full knowledge of what was written in the law. It says it'll be extended to 30, given the fact that 18 has passed. We can, we can compromise here and say that for 12 months from today's adoption. But we have to understand that if we break down the construction industry, we can't help people, everyone will get hurt. And if we pull out the situation over the course of the year, we can build all the houses that are set up today, and people who have invested their money in this construction will benefit. So let's think again here, Adam Ivanovich, let's go back and maybe the formula will unite us: 12 months from today's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I suggest you do this, so let's go back to the third amendment of Carmazin, where he says that this ban does not apply if the deadline for adoption of the construction project is more than 18 months from the date of the promulgation of this law. And instead of 18 months of writing down 12 months, that is, from the day of the promulgation of the law, we continue for one year what the builders ask. Do you understand? Then, please, I would like to put to the vote the proposal to support the amendment number three of Carmazine that the prohibition does not apply if the deadline for adoption of the construction project is more than 12 months from the date of adoption of the law, that is, one cancer. Please vote. We're going to continue for one year, for 12 months. Vote. [[11:14:59]] For 256 The amendment has been voted on. I'm going to explain again, in practice, that's the same thing that was in the first edition, because it's 30 months, and 18's already gone. We went on for another year, 12 months, that is. But more specifically, from the day before. The publication of these changes. And in view of this amendment, I am voting on the adoption of Bill 6687 on the prevention of the impact of the global financial crisis on the development of construction and housing on the extension of housing support measures. We're going on for 12 months. Please vote. [[11:15:52]] For 274 The law was passed in general. Thank you. A draft Act on the characteristics of leases and concessions of centralized water, heating and water supply facilities in municipal property is under consideration. [[Registration number 2320]] He reports to the Vice-President of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Valery Alexiyovich Baranov. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u80	Deputies! Your attention is given to the bill on the characteristics of leases and concessions of centralized water, heating and water supply facilities, which are in communal property, prepared for consideration in the second reading. At the time of preparation, the committee received 45 comments and suggestions from legislators to the bill, 24 of which were fully, partially, or editorially taken into account. At a meeting of the Committee on March 3, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the outcome of the second reading of the adoption as a matter of law. Regarding the comments of the General Legal Authority. The main legal branch of the bill is organized with notice and it is noted that it needs substantial refinement and introduction to ugly second reading. However, the committee disagrees with most of the comments and believes that the administration has biasedly worked on the bill, because the main point was “it is not necessary at all”. And we were very surprised and worried. I would like to point out that, as a professional committee, we believe that such a law is absolutely necessary, considering that enterprises of central water, heat and water supply are life-supporting and monopolistic, and that the rules of play are essential for them. The first observation relates to part two of article 2 of the provisions of the other legislative acts, which are applied in the light of the features of the law. I'm going to point out that that's the wording that's used in actual legislation, and we didn't invent a new wheel here. Second remark on the listing of grounds for termination or termination of concessions or leases. This list is a comprehensive and similar set of basic laws. Regarding an initiative to transfer an object to a lease or concession. The bill states that it initiates the process of a legal or physical person. There's no opposite here. A tenant may be a legal person or a natural person, an entrepreneur, a concessionaire, a legal person. In addition, Article 6 gradually defines the mechanism for initiating such an action. An initiative can be made by both the city’s head and the city council’s deputy and the company’s manager. After that, the next session of the Board, which takes a preliminary decision or prepares an object for rent or concession, is to be considered. We're still on the same page. A broadcast contest is being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u81	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u82	The committee has considered all the comments that I cannot announce in time, and proposes that this law be passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have about 50 here. More than a hundred amendments. If there's no objection, let's do it this way. We will pay attention to the corrections that have been made. If one of the colleagues has comments on the amendments taken into account by the committee, let him express his opinion, we will be determined. Is there no objection? Then I'll stress again. Corrections that are taken into account if someone objects to the committee’s consideration of them have the opportunity to express their opinion, and we will follow amendments that are not considered. Please, Landik, 6 revisions. Don't insist. Tereshuk, 8th Amendment. Don't insist. Samuelnko, 12th. Don't insist. Carmazine, 13th? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u84	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! It is suggested that I change the article that is now being proposed regarding the renter of a centralized water supply or water supply facility located in municipal property. Because, according to this article, a tenant may be a legal person — a business entity, or a natural person — an entrepreneur who has a positive experience in the implementation of the relevant activity. I propose in this paragraph to delete the words “or a natural person is an entrepreneur”. Because it is an extremely important activity that involves both national security and human health. Obviously, one natural person, an entrepreneur, cannot provide that. That's why I'm proposing and I don't understand why this proposal was rejected, and I'm asking you to consider this proposal. Thank you, please support her in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u85	I'm putting to the vote 13 of the Karmazin amendment, please identify yourself. [[11:22:13]] For-34 Not supported. 14th Landik, don't insist. Please, next, 26th, Carmazine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I propose that in part one, article eight, after the word concession sentence be completed with the word “excommunicated”. That is, the article is entitled “Contest for the right to receive and rent or concession of centralized water supply and water supply facilities”. And the first part reads: “objects of centralized water and heat and water supply are transferred to leases, concessions on competitive grounds”. I propose to write “only on competitive grounds”, that is, to clean up what is happening now, when they are not giving and deliberately doing what they want to do so that there are no competitions and give to their firms and firms. I don't know why this reinforcement didn't fit the committee or why it didn't count. So I'd like to ask you to support the competitions, and this will lead to lower prices, higher quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u87	The 26th amendment of colleague Karmazin is to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:23:52]] For -8 Not supported. 32nd. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Don't insist. 34th. Leap of Xenius. Microphone, please, 34th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u88	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u89	Don't insist. Thank you. 39th. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Don't insist. 40 is the same thing. Turn. 41st. Don't insist. Carmazine. 52nd. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u90	Yuri Carmazin. The 52nd Amendment says so. First of all, thank you to the committee for taking into account the 49th amendment, and before that 35th. But I think 52nd should be counted. Here, part 17 of article 8, I propose to write: “The appropriate council defined in article 3 of this law as a tenant or concessionaire for three working days from the time the winner of the competition is determined by the lease or concession contract. The terms of the contract concluded with the winner of the competition should not be different from those of the contest which provided the basis for its recognition as a winner, since the terms of the contract and its signing and the additional acceptance and modification of the edition which was given to all the parties to the contract cannot be changed.” Now there are cases where conditions change when you sign, so this is a guarantee of honesty and transparency.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u91	Puts to the vote the 52th Amendment of Carmazin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:25:54]] For-29 Not supported. 63rd, Lapina. Don't insist. Is he insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I insist, because this amendment relates to the removal of the first paragraph of article 10 on the registration of leases and concessions of objects, and it simply leads to the fact that we do not add unnecessary bureaucracy, here and so many norms allowing us to trace the quality of these contracts, so unnecessary obstacles to the way such contracts are made are, in my opinion, unnecessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u93	Yes, I'm putting 63 amendments to my colleague's vote, please. [[11:26:56]] For -6 No correction supported. Yeah, next amendment, 77th. Lappina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u94	I agree with the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u95	You agree, thank you. Yeah, next amendment, 86th, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin. I thank you for taking 81 corrections into account. With regard to the 86 amendments, it refers to part three of article 14, in which I propose that the following should be made: “The leaser’s return to a centralized water, heat and water supply facility in municipal property is made within the terms and conditions set out in the lease contracts in the established law of order. So here I'm adding 'in terms' and 'on terms', that's what I'm adding. So please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u97	I'm voting on 86 amendments from my colleague Karmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:28:15.]] For-9 Not supported. 90 of Carmazin's repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Amendment 90 to the article entitled “Specificities of concessions of centralized water, heating and water supply facilities”. I propose a part of the second article 15, which reads: “The concessionaire has no right to transfer wholly or partly to third parties his property and rights as defined by the concession contract or as related to the concession of the object. The Concessioner has the right to engage on a contractual basis in special work on a third-party object transferred to the concession, deleting the words “without the concessionaire’s consent”. What do I mean by this article? I come from the fact that these are special objects, these are centralized water, heat and water supply. This is extremely sensitive to humans. As a result, I firmly oppose the transfer of my rights to third parties because of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u99	Thank you. Puts 90 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:29:45]] For -14 Not supported. 95th. Samilenko doesn't insist. 99th. Lappina. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u100	The 99th Amendment refers to adding to the grounds for the termination of the concession contract such as the cancellation of the licence for the implementation of the relevant activity. That is not the basis for the breakup of the treaty today. This may lead to a double treatment between the License and Prohibition Act, in fact, when the licence is revoked, to conduct an appropriate activity and not to break the contract. I mean, then the object is completely incomprehensible to whom and how it has to be exploited.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u101	Thank you. It makes sense. I'm betting on the 99th amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:30:52]] For-9 104 Landik's amendment. Don't insist. So, honourable colleagues, all the amendments that were rejected, those of the authors who wanted to argue their positions, we heard. There are no other comments on the amendments that have been taken into account? None. Then I'm proposing a profile committee to accept, in the second reading and in general, as a bill under number 2320 on the specialities of rental and concession of centralized water, heating and water supply entities in municipal property. [[11:31:47]] For-200 The bill is not supported. Please, from the factions per minute, what suggestions. Sign up. Carmazine. After him, Matthew. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u102	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! You can see that there have been a lot of amendments in this project, but many are not included. I don't understand why many of Karmazin's changes aren't counted or are not counted. You can see that they were supposed to be accounted for, because if a license was cancelled in an enterprise, and that's not the basis for breaking the contract, then all the questions go away. That's the first one. The other one. The Chief Legal Office has written serious comments on three pages, and these comments, unfortunately, are not installed here right now, have to be taken into account. Because, let's put it this way, certain positions conflict with the rules of the Constitution and do not comply with the laws of Ukraine. Well, that's obvious, it's obvious to everyone. So let's reconcile these things and re-read them, where we're going to bring these amendments now, because this law is absolutely necessary, extremely, and I'm stressing it. But the second reads again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u103	Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u104	Thank you. First of all, the position of our faction and the entire Communist Party of Ukraine is well - known for the issues related to the transfer to concession or rental of the most important areas or basic areas of our national economy. And secondly, I would also like to emphasize that we cannot support a law that is separate and not even separate, and that a few regulations conflict directly with the rules of the current Constitution of Ukraine. Unless we can agree that according to the article, as we know of the Seventh Law on Housing and Utilities, tariffs and services for thermal energy are attributed to the authority of local self-government authorities. Here it is suggested that the subject of the agreements be defined the entire area between the parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u105	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u106	who conclude a treaty, what is being breached, let's say, the constitutional principles of the organization in general in Ukraine. And what this is leading to is that we've already seen with you what prices and tariffs are now being set on the population consumption of our gas, services, housing and utilities and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u107	Please, from the Baranov Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, this law is in no way interfering with the tariff mechanism. Is that what this is about? The housing and utilities of water and heat are in a state of ruin. Huge resources are needed to repair them and make them normal. The resources of these States have not been available for 20 years. So we need investors to invest that money. The only way an investor comes in and invests money is to rent it or a concession under the full control of the local council without transferring the property. Property remains property of the territorial community. We don't give money to a concessionaire, and we don't let an investor in. What are we doing? Are we watching it move on? I'm talking to the communists. Let's face it. If the state doesn't have the money, let whoever invests it. Otherwise our citizens will continue to walk in a closed circle, water will run underground, 38 percent today. And the heat will be bad. Stay there. Come here. That's what it's called today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u109	Yes, dear fellows! We exchanged thoughts. There's here, there's a radio for everyone who's talking. Indeed, most of the amendments were taken into account, and some were not taken into account. There's a point to what my colleague Matthew says that some of the rules of this law directly violate the Constitution. There are serious comments from the legal authorities. So let us act wisely and send this bill for rereading. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:37:04]] For 246 And I would like to support the proposal to shorten the deadline for re-training. The important thing is to take into account the thoughts that have now been expressed in the exchange of national MPs and the legal administration. Please support the proposal to shorten the deadline for re-reading. Vote. Half. By the law. [[11:37:36]] For 240 Supported. Thank you. Yes, dear fellows! We have a statement from two factions, "BUT" - "Fatherland" and "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" about a break. But they're ready, they've already consulted, and they're gonna make a statement. Please, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, honourable heads, honourable friends, there are various forms of parliamentary protest that may demonstrate opposition, we have taken various means to draw the attention of our colleagues, while at present parliamentary forms of government, to draw attention to the problems that today truly concern society, to the excitement of the country, to the excitement of millions of our fellow countrymen. Not to notice that even the media, which today is forced to adjust their programs to take into account the wishes of the active authorities, do not notice that they are already demonstrating on the first pages of the first minute of what is happening in the country: the crazy, unrestrained rise in food prices, the utility of what you claim to be before the new year, and then. How can utilities not travel when the gas has traveled over and over again? Who are the damages, what are the budgets for? To go on the payroll of the budget? Colleagues, every day the media report to people, bring them to society and to consciousness, and ours, including you, are not hungry, sorry, but that prices are rising in a frenzied way. Even our official newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine" please, yesterday's issue, what colleagues have announced today, three times the value changes, three times a day. And this is the beginning, this is just the harvesting of everything and everyone. What happens in three or four months? Not reacting to such things, hiding your head in the sand, not seeing it all, delaying it, thinking it's going to pass, we're going to have Chinese potatoes or Greeks from Belarus, guys, let's be serious people. Sooner or later, these questions will have to be decided by the government or by us. It is better not to allow the temperature in society before it gets too bad. We need to figure this out, now we need to take down this tension. What is wrong with not upholding the law that is wrong with us, accepting the decision that we delegate to the government to revoke the decision of the NCRE? A government can do that or a court can do that. The Supreme Council doesn't even have that right. What's going on? Sometimes we look at the decision, we just write, the chairman announces when there is agreement in the hall. Why is there no agreement in the Hall on this issue, to delegate to the government, to remove the problem? And that's not what we want, because that's what the opposition is offering. Tomorrow you will have to do so, but in a clear order. You want to win. That way the election won't be won. By turning the problem into a dead end, we're just raising the temperature. Friends! If you still don't hear it, you won't hear from your colleagues, and we've listened to you for six months when you were protecting social standards here at this rostrum with various means. You managed to stand back, and then this page.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u111	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u112	We don't have these standards, we raise prices. And some prices go up whether we want them or not. So, not reacting to it? To Whom Should I Respond? We don't have another way out. We do not want to resort to those means that will disgrace Ukraine. We leave this room in protest, leaving our slogans, leaving our soul here. We're proposing today, let's go. Let's make a constructive decision, which we propose, a decision that we're delegating to the government, to solve this issue, which should solve it. We don't require anything. You don't listen -- we're going to this protest, we're leaving the hall. Vote here. Look at the agenda, it's a disgrace today, that agenda we're looking at. And once again, my colleagues, let's not raise the temperature. Nobody needs it today, and so the country is not in a simple state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, we have spoken more than once, and once again I return you to reality, to the Rules. Yesterday was a day of opposition, and corresponding opposition formed a daytime order yesterday. Yesterday she had every reason to discuss the questions she was discussing today. Sadly, she did not want to discuss them. The other one. Regarding the decree that John Grigorovich spoke of. There is such a determination, although it is somewhat contrary to the rules of the Constitution, because prices and pricing are determined, not by decrees, but by legal decisions. But in the order set out in the Rules, let us consider the committee on the following Wednesday, or perhaps on Tuesday we will consider this provision. I don't see any tragedy in this. Once again, yesterday the order of the day was formed. She did not want to discuss it. Today, we have a Thursday and a tradition that has been established for almost decades, usually on Thursday we consider organizational issues and questions related to second reading. We are continuing our consideration of the issues. Bill 5497 - draft of the Amber Act - is under consideration. [[second reading]] Reports from the Committee of Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! There are many factors that contribute to the spread of illegal mining and shadowing of amber-cheese in the Plains, Volinsky and Žitomir areas. One of the main things is the lack of a legislative regulation of the single-person and articulation mechanism of amber on crops whose production is unprofitable, the lack of order, rules and the corresponding network for the legal assembly of amber-serve population as the object of discovery. The bill that we are considering right now is aimed at effectively solving this problem. Our neighboring nations, in particular Russia, removed amber from the list of precious stones that were used for free and wide circulation, processing, and implementation. First of all, the bill should ensure that the environment is preserved and the economic principles of the shadowy illicit amber market are eliminated. The main point to be noted is that the bill extends its action only to manifestations and deposits of amber that have no industrial significance. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine compiles and approves a list of such genealogies. The bill provides for the district’s authorization boards, special permits for amber production, to create additional jobs. The bill provides for accounting for local budgets, paying for special permits for amber production. The bill envisions a mechanism for State control of amber mining and conservation of the environment. State control is carried out by State mining authorities, local environmental authorities, health and forestry authorities. The Minn-Natures and the Treeshoz mainly support the bill. The comments and suggestions that came to him before the bill were considered and supported by the committee in preparing him for the second reading, as reflected in the comparative table. The Professional Committee supports the amber bill and recommends that it be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. Regarding the proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin, who came to the committee after the introduction of this comparative table into the session room and were not considered at the committee meeting, the committee considers it appropriate to support the proposal on the need for immediate placement on the official website of the relevant district council of the approved land plan for amber areas for which there is no industrial significance. Thank you for your attention and for your support in taking into account Karmazin’s proposals for the immediate publication of the approved land plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u115	Thank you, Vladimir Andryovich. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to do likewise, we will consider proposals that are not considered. If you have any comments on the suggestions taken into account by the committee, please let me know. If I'm not mistaken, all the suggestions made to the profile committee are taken into account and including the committee suggests that one of Karmazin's suggestions be taken into account, which came a little later, but the committee was ready in July for consideration. On July 9, they prepared this comparative table. That's how we're gonna do it. Carmazine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, the table says that the date of the committee's review is 09.07.2010. I corrected my proposals on 06.07.2010. You remember what was happening at that time in the Supreme Council, which was incomprehensible and what was happening. That's why I don't know why they weren't. But I think so. Thank you for supporting at least one correction, but there are other adjustments that deserve to be accepted. This is, for example, the fourth amendment, part of the first article 22, which reads as follows: “The use of amber nadrama in crops and manifestations that have no industrial significance, as well as the extraction of amber and raw material by citizens on land owned by these citizens are made on a paid basis, since, in accordance with article 13 of the Constitution, land and its nadra and everything else are subjects of the property rights of the Ukrainian people.” Because of this, I think it should be taken into account. That's basic. Please agree, I will gladly vote for this bill, but make this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u117	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u118	Yuri Anatoliyovich, on payment for the use of the nadrama, the committee discussed your proposals, but we believe the committee believes that the annual payment by drug users of the cost of receiving a special permit for the production of amber is based on a license that they should renew annually.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u119	Yeah, we'll figure it out. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the second-reading committee for adoption, and generally as a law, bill number 5497, the Law on amber, taking into account the offer of Carmazin, which is considered by the committee of profile. Please vote. [[11:49:56]] For 223 By factions, please: Region Party – 160, “BUT – Fatherland” – 15, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 23, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 19, non-fractional – 6. Who's to go back to voting on this bill, please make up your mind. [[11:50:31]] For 228 We're back. I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a whole as bill of bill number 5497, taking into account the offer of a colleague of Carmazin, supported by a committee of profile, please vote. [[11:51.]] For 240 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Bill No. 4449 is under consideration – amending some Ukrainian legislation on placing children in children's distribution centres. Head of the Committee for the Legislative Security of Greece's Legal Activities, Vasil Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Ukraine's draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the placement of children in children's receivers was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 February 2010. [[No. 449]] During this time, the committee reviewed it several times at its meetings. And today I present to you the version that the committee proposes to adopt as a law. The adoption of this law will ensure that the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the possibility of placing a person between 14 and 16 years of age who has committed a socially unsafe act, which under the Criminal Code of Ukraine is punishable by the deprivation of liberty of more than 5 years in a distribution unit for children and by the introduction of the Ukrainian Children's Organs and Services and Special Institutions for Children Act in accordance with the requirements of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms by predicting the possibility of placing children between 11 and 18 years of age in distribution recipients only by decision of the court. The draft law seems extremely relevant because, according to the logic of the authors of its adoption, it will first allow national legislation to be brought into line with the requirements of article 5 of the Fifth Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamentals. and ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 9 of the Constitution of Ukraine and is part of the national legislation of Ukraine. Secondly, it will be possible for the European Court of Justice to avoid breaching its obligations under the convention and to pay justly for such a violation. There were 18 amendments to the law. Of these, 12 are considered entirely, partially, or editorially. Six amendments rejected. This is amendment number five, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18. I would like to point out that the committee has reviewed this project several times, and we have worked with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which, together with the Ministry of Finance, fully supports it. The project is legally settled, although it is initiated by the Legal Authority as one that requires substantial substantive work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u121	You have 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u122	The committee examined in detail all the criticisms made by the Chief Legal Authority in this project, and the committee gave a reasoned answer to each of them. In addition, in view of the written position of the Chief Legal Authority, the committee at its meeting on 6 July 2010 sent a letter to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure the preparation of the relevant expert conclusion. According to an expert conclusion by the Cabinet of Ministers, this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u123	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u124	fully supported. Thus, honourable national deputies, the committee believes that the bill can be adopted in a second reading and in general. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's go get some repairs. Fifth Amendment, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The fifth amendment refers to the addition of a new part of article 7.3 of the following content: “A person suspected of committing a socially dangerous act at the age of 11 years, subject to the signs of action under which the Criminal Code provides punishment in the form of deprivation of liberty for more than 5 years, who has not reached the age of possible criminal responsibility, and on which there are compelling grounds to believe that he will try to escape the investigation and trial, or from the execution of procedural decisions, to hinder the establishment of truths in the case, or to continue wrong activities, may be placed in the receiver - distributor for children for up to 72 hours. The question of placement in a child distribution receiver is decided by a court of inquiry or by the prosecutor's consent. The prosecutor may appeal to the Court of Appeal for a decision by a legal representative, the guardian of a minor and the minor himself for 10 days from the date of the decision.” That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u127	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u128	We are thus allowing people to use constitutional rights to challenge the decision to place this child in the distribution. This is out of the question. I believe that these are the essential and constitutional guarantees that I am writing in this article, and they are fundamental. So I'd like to agree with the committee's representative because in many other positions they've taken the text into account, and I thank you for that, and I've considered it editorially and so on. And here it is absolutely constitutionally necessary. If I take this amendment into account, I can call off some of the other amendments, and I won't sound them at all, because this is the principle of amendment that has constitutional guarantees that come out of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u129	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u130	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, your amendments were considered quite carefully on the committee, and we did not have a single meeting to discuss. There's a representative of the Ministry of Justice here, and we've discussed this more than once. I want to remind you that 72 hours is a constitutional term for holding a person. The bill proposes to set the deadline for holding a child in a distribution receiver with a view to carrying out procedural actions in accordance with the CPC with a view to closing cases within a three-day deadline for the complaint provided for in Article 165-2 of the CPC, since the placement of children in distribution receivers can be considered a precautionary measure. Yuri Anatoliyovich, sadly, disagreed with your amendment to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u131	I'm putting to the vote the 5th amendment of colleague Karmazin, please identify yourself. [[11:58:24]] For the five of us. Not supported. Dear colleagues, I propose that we continue our session to consider this issue, and then we will continue the deadline accordingly. Is there no objection? Yes, the following amendment to Carmazine 7 is taken into account in an editorial way. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u132	No, I don't insist, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u133	It's the 9th, the 10th. Yeah, 11th Carmazine's accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u134	I don't insist either.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u135	13th. Not counted. Don't you insist? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin. 13 Amendment says that part two, paragraph 19, of article 5, I propose that I read: “To deliver to the internal affairs authorities children who have committed administrative offences within 3 hours who have committed administrative offences but have not reached the age of administrative responsibility to establish the person, the circumstances of the administrative offence and the transfer of them to the parents or persons who replace them, or to shelters for children and services in the affairs of minors.” But I'm denied, and whoever reads the conclusions will see that it's actually about keeping people on guard. To deliver a child to an area where they are, whether it's a children's home or something. I'm saying right now, this doesn't fit the Constitution of Ukraine, what I'm proposing is the answer. So these are the conclusions and the reasons that are written, absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u137	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, and this amendment committee has considered quite carefully, and I want to tell you that we rejected it because the terms were consistent with the IMF, taking into account the actual possibilities. For example, the child was detained in Odessa, and the parents or children’s home is located in the Luhansk region. Will parents, legal representatives, be able to leave in four hours? That's impossible. We don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u138	Yes. Where there are two lawyers, there are four opinions. I'm putting 13 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:00:51]] For -6 Not supported. The 14th? Declined. Carmagine, do you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national MPs, and the argument that has now been put forward, that the terms discussed with the IMF, which is convenient to the IMF, do not mean that this is consistent with the Constitution, Your Honor! In fact, these children are being imprisoned for the time they are being transported, so to speak. Let's call things our names. Amendment 14. Paragraph 1 of part four of article 7 suggests in this edition: “At the age of 11 years who are suspected of committing social harm, which are subject to acts for which the Criminal Code provides punishment in the form of deprivation of liberty for more than 5 years, who have not reached the age from which persons are liable for criminal responsibility, for which there are sufficient grounds to believe that they will try to escape the investigation and trial, or from the execution of procedural decisions, to prevent the establishment of the truth in the case, or to continue the wrongful activity until the court decides the question of the protection of compulsory measures of educational nature, but not more than 72 hours.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u140	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u141	So the committee thinks that shortening the deadlines will make it impossible for the criminal police to perform their functions, and it can lead to children being held outside the legal framework. I believe that this amendment cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u142	The 14th vote. Here we go. [[12:02:40]] For the four of us. Not supported. 15th Carmazine accounted for. 16th? Carmazine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u143	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! You didn't even realize that you're supposed to keep people 60 days, 11 years old, in custody. This is a previous amendment, a humane rejection of my amendment and a humane acceptance of another position. I don't know which state we're going to get to. Article. Amendment 16 proposes in paragraph 2 of part four of article 7 to read: “Who are to be judged by a court that has gained legal power, to be sent to special educational institutions. There are good reasons to believe that such children will engage in illegal activities. “on the deadline needed to deliver them to special educational institutions, but not more than 7 days.” I think you can deliver anyone within Ukraine in seven days. And what's written down is 30 days, that's an entirely unwarranted term. I don't know, we'd be here by now, and Mogilov's got a good Cadillac.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u144	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, that means, well, first of all, honourable national MPs, this is a violation of article 116 of the Rules adopted by the Supreme Council, and also, Yuri Anatoliyovich, you know very well that article 447 of the CPC provides for a term of up to 30 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u145	I'm putting Amendment 17 to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:04:34]] For two. Yeah, 18th Amendment, 17th Amendment of Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u146	The 17th amendment, the honourable national deputies, who have not yet understood what we are voting for today, refers to the amendment to paragraph 3 of Part Four of Article 7, which I propose in this edition: “ who voluntarily left special educational institutions, where they were on time, necessary to deliver them to special educational institutions, but no more than 7 days. I believe that the 30-day deadline for making decisions is extremely increased fourfold, more than four times. It's a total of seven days. I'm saying this as a person who knows how the law isn't applied by textbooks, not by anything else, but directly knows how it's being implemented. So I think the 30 should be replaced by the 7 and I'm stressing that. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u147	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, the 30-day term is the maximum term. And if the child can deliver faster what you're offering in seven days, it can be delivered in three days, or it can be delivered in the daytime. We think that the maximum term should be left behind, and we think that the maximum term should be left behind as it goes out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u148	It's the 17th vote. [[12:06:23]] For two. Not supported. 18th Amendment. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u149	Yuri Carmazin. Respectable national MPs, in Ukrainian and in Ukrainian society have never had strays, and children have always been cared for. This happened after the revolution, when we started to change a little bit of our consciousness and our national identity. As a result, I propose paragraph four, part seven, to put it in the following line: those who are wanted as disappeared, abandoned families or educational institutions, are pushed to the length of time needed to transfer them to the body that initiated the search, but not more than 36 hours. Therefore, I do not believe that the term “shipping” can be used as a word of non-Ukrainian origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u150	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, did you mean what revolution, the orange one? Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u151	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, meaning, “The Great Interpreter’s Dictionary of English ” says quite different. To sail is to be a wanderer. It's not to have a permanent job and a permanent place to live, to be a burlaka. I mean, be single, be unfamiliar. Read the English dictionary.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u152	Yeah, we got it. Puts the 18th to a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:08:15]] For 1 Not supported. Yes, dear fellows! We've been through all the repairs. We can listen to the committee. Vasil Mikolaiovich, don't go, I know the committee's opinion. I need you from someone else. But we warned all the committees that since the next session, the seventh session, the Supreme Council would not allow the consideration of drafts that would violate 116 articles of the Rules, which referred to the possibility that proposals could be made before the second reading and amendments to those articles, to those provisions of the bill that we had considered in the first reading. If there are any additions to the second reading concerning other articles, such a bill will not be considered. That's why I'm going to the committee. If the committee is willing to take into account the observation of the Chief Legal Authority that changes to part two of article 7.3, articles 382, 447 of the Ukrainian Code and to part two, paragraph 19, of the Ukrainian Law on Organs and Services for Children and Special Institutions for Children will be removed from the bill, then I will put it to the vote. If the committee doesn't agree, at best I can send it back for a second read. Please, the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u153	Dear John Adamovich! We've discussed this issue on the committee, and we've given a reasoned answer to the legal board on every issue. We went to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We are strongly supported by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. And I think we can fix it, but we've fixed it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u154	Vassil Mikolaiovich, you have the only chance to take these amendments into account in the second bill, if you have such a wish in the Cabinet of Ministers, in the Ministry of Justice, in your profile committee, but I will not allow you to violate the Rules. So once again, are you taking these amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u156	Then, yes, given that amendments that have no bearing on first reading and violate 116 articles will be removed from this bill. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u157	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which I have amended, which I have not accepted, has been amended by the Honourable Chief Legal Office by seven sheets of amendments, seven sheets that have not been counted. And the conclusion, I read, of the General Legal Department: “In view of what has been taught, we believe that the bill requires substantial substantive elaboration and re-reading. [[Reverend Adama Ivanovich, not cosmetic, but meaningful]] Note, too, that Articles 7, 3, Article 382, 447, Article 5 do not comply with the 116 Rules” violates the rules of other laws. Therefore, we should take into account the opinion of the Chief Legal Authority and thank them for their expertise, impartial, sincere, and legal. What Minniest is doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u158	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, well, you repeated what I said. Thank you for your support. Once again, the committee's basis for the mass of the legal authorities' observations has been taken into account, and now it agrees with the main point that you and I have stressed that what has nothing to do with the first reading is not going to be taken into account. With such proposals, I am voting on the adoption of the whole Act number 4449 amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the placement of children in children's distributors. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:12:56]] For 246 Copy that. Once again, because Yuri Anatoliyovich was coming along, I will explain once again that there will be no signed law unless what we voted with you is taken into account. That is, it has nothing to do with 116 articles. I see. Yes, dear colleagues, there is a break of up to 12 hours for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, we continue our meeting in the morning. Now we have with you, according to our order of the day, to consider the question of the appointment and release of judges. Let us begin this procedure. I would like to remind you that for the first time since the adoption of the Suicidal Act, we are considering these issues. So far, the procedure we've worked with you before. I mean, what the committee represents, we'll make decisions. We are considering the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis and the following, please, from the colleagues' committee Booth. [[Registration number 7108]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u160	Dear Adam Ivanovich, national deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meeting on September 8, 2010, considered the appointment of the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the heads of the higher specialized courts on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis and the election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis. You are well aware of the procedure. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. The Supreme Council's decision to elect a judge. [[No. 7108]] In accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 27, of the First Article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Bondarevo Roman Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Kulichenko Yuri Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Melnik Jaroslav Sergiyovich; Kyiv's Court of Appeal Kuchm Andriy Yuriovich, The Kyiv Court of Appeal of Macedonian Victoria Eduardo; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Peter Igor Josephovich; Sevastopol’s Court of Appeal, Ostapov Catherine Andriyevna; Kharkiv’s Court of Appeal of Agriculture Billous Jaroslav Alexiyevna; Alushtine City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Angelina Volodymyrna; The Biological District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Kurtchusheieva Murat Ismailovich; Kherchen City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Šumov Vladislav Volodymirovich; The Krasnoggardsky District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Degtary Victoria Yuriyovna; Igor Igorovich, District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea; The Central District Court of Simferopol Maluchin Valeri Volodymyrovich; Winnicki District Court of Winnicki District of Stadnik Igor Mihajlovich; The Trieste District Court of the Vinnitsk district of Krivenk Dmitr Temurozovich; Tulchin district court in Karnauha Arkady Petrovic, The Tulchin district court of the Kovganic district of Kovganic Sergey Volodymirovich; The Novovolin City Court of the Volin district of Fedonuk Svetlana Yuriovna; The Scottish District Court of Volin district of Cranovska Natalija Vejacheslavna; The Supreme Provost District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Petruk Tetjan Mikhailnov; Petropavlovsky District Court of Dnipropetrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u161	Excuse me, excuse me. Excuse me, stop, please. I don't see the judges coming up, do they? Whether they're not there or if they're tired.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u162	Adam Ivanovich, the judges all rise, we all see.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u163	I'm sorry. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u164	The Supreme Provost District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Petruk Tetjan Mikhailnov; Petropavlovsky District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Nikolayev Irina Constantine; The Long Island District Court of the Horn of the Dnipropetrov region of Central Natalia Grigorovna; The Yellow District Court of the Horn of Creature of the Dnipropetrov region of Vavrusak Natal Mikolayevna; The Ductuary City Court of the Donetsk region of Chertkov Love of Alexandrovna; The New Azores District Court of the Donetsk Region of Katsarenko Inna Alexiyevna; The Snow White City Court of the Donetsk district of Radchenk Vitali Evgenovich; The Torres City Court of the Donetsk district of Kurakov Victoria Valentinov; The Shakhtar District Court of the Donetsk district of Kobal Mikhail Ivanovich; Kalininsky District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Šipović Vladislav Volodymyrovich; The Kirov District Court of Donetsk Larine Natal Alexandrovna; Peter’s District Court of Donetsk Babakova Vitalia Pavlovich; The Red Cross District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk Region of Markelov Rostislav Igorovich; The People's District Court of the Gitomir District of Dibrowa Alexandra Viktorovich; The Ovrutsky District Court of the district of Zitomir district of Nevmerzicky Sergey Stepanović; Olewsky District Court of the Stratovic Stratovic District, Alexander Volodymirovich; Bologna District Court of Zitomir Bučik Anna Yuriyovna; The Royal District Court of Zitomir Talko Oksana Borisovna; Irsavov District Court of Zakarpat district of Zolotar Mikhail Mikhailovich; The Berdian District Court of Zaporozhye district of Kramarenko Andrija Ivanovich; The Zaporozhye District Court of Akkasov Aleksandr Mihajlovich; Melitopol District Court of Zaporozhyevo Igor Mahmudovic; Yakimiv District Court of Zaporozhye district of Nesterenko Tetjanu Vasilovna; The Yellow District Court of Zaporozhye Light Victoria Mikolayovna; Orjonikidzewski District Court of Zaporozhye, Victoria Victoria; Shevchenkov District Court of Zaporozhye Dmitruk Oksana Viktorovna; Shevchenkov District Court of Zaporozhye, Trophim Diane Anatoliyevna; Ivano-Frankiv city court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Lazarov Oleg Bogdanović; The Kosovo District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Gordy Vladimir Ivanovich; Irpine City Court of the Kyiv district of Linnik Valeri Jakovic; Kirovograd district court of Kirovograd district of Murashka Sergey Ivanovich; The new archangel district court of Kirovograd district of Partolina Prokopovna; Kirov district court of Kirovgrad Burk Ruslan Volodymirovic; Lenin District Court of Kirovgrad Unsmolo Evgenija Borisovich, The Lenin District Court of the City of Kirovgrad of Zagreb, Andrija Vitaliyovich; Lysicán city court of Luhansk district of Lysenko Ilon Vasilovna, Lysicán City Court of Luhansk, Potocsky Volodymyr Pilipovich; Rubižan City Court of Luhansk district of Odinovna Valerija Viacheslavna The Artemian District Court of Lugansk Nadajenko Tetjan Mikolayevna; Kamenobridsky District Court of Lugansk Kotlarov Irina Yuriovna Brodov District Court of the Lviv district of Bundu Anna Alexandrovna, The Bródí district court of the Lviv district of Tropak Alexander Vasilovna; Sokal District Court of Lviv district of Nitkewicz Andrija Vasilovich; The District Court of the Lviv Region of Hobor Roman Bogdanovna; The French District Court of Lviv, Mikulu Oksana Ivanovna; The Berezan District Court of the Mikolai District of Haponenko Natalia Alexandrovna; Veselinov District Court of Mikolaiiv, Kalarash Andriyovitch; The Ascension City Court of the Mikolai district of Luzan Ludmila Viktorovna, Rotar Marina Mikolayevna, M.C. Kazankov District Court of the Mikolai District of Svetlana Ivanovna; Itrina Mikolu Vasilovich, Regional Court of New York, Mikolaievich; Bilgorod-Dnistrov, District Court of Odessa, Lukyanchuk Olga Viktorovna; The southern city court of Odessa district of Gorjainovka Catherine Anatoliyevna; The Suvorov District Court of Odessa Malinovsky Alexander Mikolaiovich, Suvorov District Court of Odessa Wednesday, Inna Volodymyrovna; The Gaddaic District Court of Poltav district of Zakłodzy Olena Anatoliyevna; Kotelev district court of the island district of Rostislav Vejacheslavovic; The Luben Regional Court of Poltava district of Ivashchenka Yuri Anatoliyovich; The Peacetown District Court of Poltava district of Sidorenc Yuri Volodymyrovich; The Orgitsky District Court of Poltava district of Gruman Tetjan Volodymyrna; The Pirate District Court of Poltava District of Corsun Oksana Mikolayevna;
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u165	Please, there's a note on Corsun Oksani Mikolayovni. Please, let's go. Please continue reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u166	Lenin District Court of Poltava Yukhno Svetlana Petrovna The October District Court of Poltava Blažko Irina Alexiyevna; The Kremenchuk District Court of the district of Poltava, Andreietz, Dina Dmitrovna; The Burin District Court of the Suma District of Mishchenk Viktor Mikolaiovich; Ohtyr District Court of Sumi district of Sidorenk Roman Vasilovich; The engaged district court of Suma, Malovano Victoria Valentinovna; Bogoduhov District Court of Kharkiv district of Shalimov Dmitr Volodymirovich; Kupyan District Court of Kharkiv District, Litwinov Andrija Viktorovich; The Provincial District Court of Harkova Podus Hanna Sergiyevna; The Kyiv District Court of Kharkiv Zuba Hennadija Anatoliyovich; The Lenin District Court of Harkov Begunz Armen Oleg; Moscow District Court of Harkova Sugachev Olen Olegovna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u167	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u168	Lower Syrian District Court of the Cesell district of Olga Sergiyevna; Tsurupina District Court of the Herson District of Boyk Viacheslav Petrovich; Dniprovsky District Court of Herson Polyjan Vladimir Mikolaiovich; The Komsomol District Court of Herson Chernish Oksana Leonidivna; Leticius District Court of the Hmelnicka District of Lazarenko Anatolia Volodymirovich; The hops of the Regional Court of Hmelnicke District of Karpuk Oleg Ivanovich, Trembach Alexander Leonidovich; Shepetov’s Regional Court of Hmeljna District of Bosuk Valerija Andriyovich, Fedorov Natalija Alexandrovna; Drabovsky District Court of the Cherka district of Shevchenka Vitali Alexiyovich; Shevchenkovsky District Court of Chernovici Slobodan Galin Mihaylovna; Chernigiv District Court of the district of Czernigiv district of Homenko Larissa Vasilovna; Czernigova Zibenko Irina Volodymyrna, New Zealand District Court of Czernigova; The Lenin District Court of Sevastopol, Memorable Maxim Alexiyovich; the District Administrative Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Tresna Olen Rostislavna; The Sanhedrin District Administrative Court of Karakush Sergey Mikolayovich; The Lviv District Administrative Court of Matkovsk Zorjan Miroslavna; Odessa District Administrative Court Vovchenko Oksan Andriyevna; The Economic Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Bashilashvili Oksana Ivanovna; The Economic Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Lovagina Julius Yuriyovna; The Autonomous Republic of Crimea Medvedchuk Olen Leonidivna; the Economic Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Oreshkin, Elin Valerievna; the Economic Court of the Donetsk Region of Mesencev Eugen Igorovich; The Economic Court of Žitomir district of Kostrica Oleg Alexandrovich; The Zacarpathian Economic Court of Remecki Oksana Fedorovna; the Economic Court of Zaporozhye District of Gandukov Larissa Pavlovna; Zinchenko Natal Grigorovna Economic Court; the Economic Court of the Zaporozhye district of Solovov Volodymyr Mikolayovic; the court of the Kirovograd district of Taran Svetlana Valeriyovna; the Economic Court of the Luhansk Region of Ponomarenko Eugenia Yuriovich; the court of the Luhansk district of Shelihin Rita Mikhailnov; The Economic Court of the Odessa District of Fair Julius Grigorovna; the Economic Court of the Poltava District of Timoshchenko Oksana Mikolayovna; Andrusik Nadia Alexiyevna, Economic Court of Ternopil district; the Commercial Court of the Hmelnicke District of Wybodowski Alexander Dmitrovic; the Commercial Court of the Hmelnicke District of Gladia Sergija Vitaliyovich; and the Commercial Court of the Hmelnicke District of the Garden of Constantine Mikhailovich; the Chamber of Commerce of the Cherniewec Region of Mironyuk Sergey Aleksandrovitch; the Chamber of Commerce of the Chernigiv district of Sidorenka Andrija Sergiyovich; Kyiv’s Economic Court of Mitrochin Anna Valeriyovna; the commercial court of the city of Sevastopol, Aloshin Svetlana Mikhailnov; the commercial court of the city of Sevastopol Eudomov Igor Vyačeslavovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we haven't had a list like this with you before today, and I have a question for the profile committee: What does this have to do with this record number being approved today by the judges? It's probably not just summer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u170	Adam Ivanovich, that was the list. We had 361 judges last summer, now only 138.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u171	So this is related to, do you think, summer vacations?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u172	With vacations and a large number of vacancies created in the courts. In some courts there is one judge at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u173	Thank you. So, Your Honor, I'm going to put to the vote on the adoption of the entire Order number 7108 on the election of judges, with the exception of the judge of the Pirate District Court of Poltava County of Corsun Oksana Mikolayovna. Please vote. [[13:02:01]] For 265 It's been decided. [[Applause]] Now, please take Korsun Oksani Mikolayovni, the Gordijenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, honorable judges, guests, distinguished radio listeners! Once again, Corsun Olena Mikolayovna is nominated for approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We've had debates here over and over again. Statistics have already been provided. The facts cited were that the judge could not be confirmed. I held additional consultations, including with representatives of the Pyratinian territorial community in the Poltava region, they expressed their firm “no”. Such clarifications were made and representatives of the political forces present on behalf of the Poltavian community in this session hall. They also found me and said that, in fact, there's no political or other issue here, we've clarified, and this candidature cannot be appointed by a judge on an untimely basis. I address my colleagues on behalf of the pirates and..
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u175	Yes. Thank you. Let's do it another way. Please come to the microphone, Oksana Mikolayevna. What explanations can you give?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u176	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! My figures were compared to those of the Pirate District Court, compared to those of the Poltava region. They're no worse, they meet the standards, the standards that exist in the courts of general jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u177	Thank you. Yes, I see there is a desire to discuss. Please sign up in one minute. Yes, please, Gordienka, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u178	Adam Ivanovich, I would like to draw attention to the fact that yesterday, according to my colleague Leonid Ivanovich, the nomination was postponed on the committee. How did she get into the draft decision? I have questions. This is another testimony to one thing that goes so double around this game. And let the committee's representative explain how she got out yesterday and wasn't going to make a decision, and today it's just, even, a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u179	Please, Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u180	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Please pass the word to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u181	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear National Deputies! We're based on the committee, where I'm the first deputy chairman of the committee, we're looking at every application, every request. And if we do not remember, we are addressing the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Qualifying Commission, the Supreme Court, the heads of the specialized courts present today. But in this case, we don't have any specific offences that would have been committed by this judge. That's why I'm telling you that we unanimously decided to support this judge because we didn't have any facts why we didn't support her. That's why I can't tell you why. I know it's hard.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u182	Vladislav Zabarski, please, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u183	Please pass the word to your colleague Spinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u184	Sphen's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u185	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. As a representative of the committee, I would like to confirm that the committee that Judge Corsun Oxan had considered Nikolayevna on four occasions and voted positively on four occasions. And at yesterday's meeting, there was a unanimous vote. And according to Judge Corsun, there was no committee meeting yesterday, the Supreme Council of Justice, the Council, the judges, no objection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u186	Thank you. Vladimir Filipenko, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear colleagues, such an impression is that we no longer need the Justice Committee today. It was only yesterday that we sat down for three hours and did a pretty big job and a solid one, and Judge Corsun heard the fourth and fourth times on the committee yesterday, no one had any claims, not even on the complaints she had. The complaint was the only one that delayed the consideration of one case. But excuse me, such complaints against judges come in both 10 and 15, and they are all objectively dealt with in the committee. In fact, the committee does not need it, and no one needs it because someone wants it not to become a judge and not work for a judge. I think we need to identify ourselves now and not break a man's life in front of those judges who are sitting and looking at us right now. There were no objections to Judge Corsun. The committee unanimously supported it. I ask my colleagues to identify themselves and still consider the decision of the committee, which for the fourth time considered all complaints and supported this judge for recommending his election on an untimely basis today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u188	Thank you. We need a committee for information. And I'll just remind you. For the time being, I'll say so. I will remind you of the rules of the Ukrainian Judicial Act and the status of judges of articles 79, 80 and 111, where the appointment of judges by the Supreme Council will be introduced, effective after the start of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine, established in accordance with the order established by this law. In the near future, if I have the right information, this commission will be formed, and then it will give us recommendations. For the time being, the committee's recommendations are important to us. It fits into the law that you and I passed in the summer. The conversation is over. I am voting on the proposal of a profile committee to elect an untimely judge of the Pyratitin district court of the Poltav district of Korsun Oksana Mikolayovna. [[13:09:11]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 162, "BUT - "Patkaščina" - 26, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 22, Communists, "Block of Lithuania" - zero, non-factional - 6. Who's in charge of getting back to the vote, please make up your mind. [[13:09:50]] For 225 We're not back. The decision is not taken. A draft Supreme Council Order 7108-1 on the election of judges is under consideration. Please, Booth Yuri Anatolyovich. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u189	Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Decree No. 7108-1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Election of Judges. In line with article 85, paragraph 27. Part one of the first article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: To elect judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges: the Court of Appeal of Wojtek Jurij Borisovich; the Court of Appeal of the Viennese Region of Michelin Svetlana Vasilovna; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of Ostapenko, Victoria Alexandrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Seržanjuk Anatoli Semenović; the Court of Appeal of Kirovograd District of Chief Olga Ivanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai district of Kwasu Sergey Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai district of Male Nina Vasilovna; the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai district of Yavorsk, Jeanne Mikhailovna; the Court of Appeal of the Suman district of Zaharchenk Alexander Petrovich, the Court of Appeal of the Suman district of Taran Svetlana Andriyevna; The Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Basil Ludmila Volodymyrna; the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Ignatenko Polin Jakovna; The Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Plasa Mikola Grigorovitch; the Court of Appeal of the Cerkas region of Palon Vladimir Sergiyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region of Ponomarenko Volodymira Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the District of Breslav, Alexander Grigorovich; the Court of Appeal of the District of Lisak Igor Nicodemovich; the Court of Appeal of Kiev Greenenka Alexandr Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of Kiev to the Unknown Tetian Alexievna; The Dnipropetroval Administrative Court of Melnik Vladimir Vasilovich; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Karpushov Olen Vitaliyevna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Boriszuk Larissa Pavlovna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Grishenko Tamar Mikolayevna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Klukowovich Vasil Juriovich; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Lièvetsky Igor Alexandrovich; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Saulak Yuri Vasilovich; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Troyan Natalia Mikolaynowna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Shurk Oleg Ivanovich; Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal Romanish Vladimir Leonidovich; The Donetsk Economic Court of Appeal, Budko Natal Vladislavna; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Duchal Natal Mikolayevna; Donetsk's Appeals Chamber of Commerce, Lomovtsev Natalija Viktorovna, Donetsk's appeals court-martial Irina Vitaliyevna, Donetsk's Court of Appeal of the Farms of Chernot Ludmila Fedorovna; Kharkiv's Court of Appeal Health of Ludmila Mikolayevna, Kharkiv's Economic Court of Appeal, Slobodan Michael Mikolaiovich, Kharkiv's Chamber of Commerce Court of Cherlenjak Mikol Ivanovich; The household court of the Winnick district of Grabik Vitali Volodymyrovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, comments on the proposed candidates for the election of judges previously elected by the transfer to other posts, were not received. So I'm going to give the whole Order 7108-1 on the election of judges. Please vote. [[13:14:43]] For 270. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thus, your honorary colleagues, questions related to the election of judges, have been discussed with you on an uninterrupted basis. Allow me, on your behalf, to welcome the judges who have been elected on an untimely basis and to wish them one that they would fall into our session hall only in the event of the appointment of the highest office, rather than be released from office here. Good for you. [[Applause]] A draft Order 7109 on the release of judges is under consideration. From the profile committee, we have a report from colleague Bondik Valerij Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! I don't know what order the draft decree is in, I have 7109, we have three draft decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u192	Please listen to what the manager has to say, and report what you are told is in such order. He's listening to 7109.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u193	Oh!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u194	Oh! There's a "o"! But listen first.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u195	Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the resignation is proposed by the Committee to relieve judges: the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Žuka Viacheslav Grigorovich, Karmazin Jurija Markovich; the Court of Appeal of the Vinnitsk district of Kulbaku Sergija Sergiyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Gorskov Mikhail Petrovich, the Triune of Larissa Ivanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai District of Paliyuk Vasil Pavlovich, Slavogrodska Natalija Petrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Hasia Yuri Volodymyrovich, Onishchenka Vitali Ilarionovitch; the Court of Appeal of the district of Chernigiv, Kornyakowa Zha Dmitrovna. I'm sorry, Root Zha Dmitrovna; the Military Court of Appeal of the Central Region of Shevchenka Valentina Pavlovich; The Križopil District Court of the Vinnitsk Region of Panasuk Boris Grigorovitch; Malovskiski district court of Kirovograd district of Nazarenko Vasil Yaković; Rowenkov City Court of Luhansk, Naumov Inna Mikolayevna, Semenyuk Tetjana Borissovna; Regional Regional Court of Luhansk Sklarov Petra Mikolaiovich; Stahanov City Court of Luhansk County, Romash Valentine Petrovna; The Pyratitinian District Court of Poltav district of Pedesh Sergio Ivanovich I'm sorry, Pedesh. Sergey Ivanovich. Kremenchuk Auto-Vehicle District Court of Poltava District Soboljev Volodymira Anatoliyovich; The Kharkov Regional Court of the Ivashchenka District of Jury Petrovich; Drabov District Court of the Cherka district of Svedun Vitali Svridonović; Hertzai district court in the district of Bolgak Lukyan Pavlovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u196	Thank you, Valery Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that we are considering Project 7,109 on the dismissal of judges in connection with these resignation applications, which is, of course, the will of the judges themselves. No objections? Then I'm betting on the adoption of a total of 7,109 rulings on the release of judges. Please vote. [[13:18:06]] For 273 Decision taken. Carmazin asks that it be clarified that he is not a relative of his. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, let us really thank the judges who worked, under some circumstances or other, who probably wrote their resignation applications with age. The draft decree 7109-1 on the dismissal of a judge is under consideration. Please, Valery Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u197	On the basis of the committee’s decision to release Judge Kolomatsky District Court of Kharkiv, Husar Peter Pavlovich, from the legal force of the indictment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u198	No questions? Clearly, he gained strength.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u199	It's a conviction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u200	Yes, the indictment. I'm voting on the decision to take it as a whole under number 7109-1 on the dismissal of the judge. Please vote. [[13:19:28]] For 260 Decision taken. We're looking at Bill 7109-2 on the release of judges. Please, Valery Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u201	According to article 126, part five, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the committee decided to recommend, in connection with the violation of the oath, that the judges of the Mukatov District Court of Zakarpaty should be dismissed. Adam Ivanovich, not to explain the reason?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u202	Yes, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u203	So there was a committee meeting. Rizkov Vitaly Hennadiyovich, on the basis of the application of the High Council of Justice, intervened in the activities of the operators and decided on the right of members of the association to participate. According to the Supreme Council of Justice, a review was made by members of the High Council of Justice and was filed for the release of this judge. He wasn't on the committee yesterday, but, as far as I'm concerned, he's in the hall. Do you want to keep reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u204	Yes, come on, dear fellows, how do we proceed? Are we going to look at each other separately?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u205	Let's, let's go, then, because this question is a little bit different from the previous one, because it's a violation of an oath. Therefore, please refer to Rižik’s Vitalia Hennadiyovich, the Mukativ District Court. He's in the hall, isn't he? Is it? Please explain, Vitaly Hennadiovich. Step closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u206	Yesterday, I was unable to attend the High Council of Justice in connection with the late receipt of the message, and the telegram came late, so I was unable to provide arguments and explanations about it. to protect itself on this matter. All I can say.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u207	Yes, of course. Please, who's with the High Council of Justice? Yes, Koleschenko, head, please to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u208	Rizkov Vitaly Hennadiyovich, was offered to release him for violating an oath of office. The essence of its infringements: considering the Malachov case to Yvashchenka, Samuel's T.T. “Avers-K” on fines, damages, moral damage, invalidity of the contract and other requirements, in accepting a claim for conduct violated the requirements of Article 121, since the application was not subject to the requirements of the law on the form and content of the parties, no State duty was paid, no exceptional jurisdiction was violated, all parties to the proceedings, except Malachi, lived or were in Kiev. Having examined four external claims brought before the Darnicki District Court of Kiev, admitting that there was no right to use the land, the application in question could not be brought before a court, since article 16 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code does not provide for such protection of a violated civil right. The decision regarding the responsibilities of persons not involved is binding. The utility of the Kyiv Technical Inventory Office. The Supreme Council of Justice unanimously made a decision and felt that there were all signs of a breach of an oath. Please support the decision of the High Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u209	Thank you. The committee's decision is clear, they support the decisions of the High Council of Justice. Are there not those who wish to share in the discussion? None. Then I put to the vote a motion for dismissal in connection with a violation of office. In connection with the violation of an oath by Judge Mukativ of the Zakarpatsk District District District of Rizkov Vitali Hennadiyovich. Please vote. [[13:23:45]] For-38 The proposal of the High Council of Justice and our profile committee is not supported, and the judge remains in office.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u210	Thank you for your confidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u211	Please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u212	Next. Makarov district of the Kyiv region of Tukhtey Pavel Mikolaiovich; Tuchtaj Paul Mikolaiovich was present on the committee, explaining the violation of an oath on land law was made unanimously. This is an appropriate scheme when two entities, through a court decision named Ukraine, acquire ownership of the land. Yesterday, Paul Mikolaiovich was present, explaining that his explanations were taken into account, but unfortunately his decision was made unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u213	Please, Paul Mikolaiovich, come to the microphone. Is he gone? Then please, the Head of the High Council of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u214	I would like to point out that Judge Tüchtey, in dealing with land-related cases, in spite of the requirements of article 576 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, is part of the first article 139 of the Land Code, sub-paragraphs “b”, paragraph 15 of the Transitional Regulations of the Land Code, and has decided on a decision which has actually resulted in the illegal alienation of land for the conduct of a private agricultural holding. In fact, there's a hidden form of land transfer, land transfer. The High Council of Justice is asking us to support our proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u215	I see. Discussing None? I am voting for the release of Judge Makarov of the District Court of Kiev, Tukhtiya Pavel Mikolaiovich, in connection with the violation of the judge’s oath. Please vote. [[13:25:56]] For 265 In this case, the Higher Council of Justice was not wrong. Decision taken. Please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u216	The next Arbusinian circuit court of the district of Pampur Oleg Ivanovich, did not appear on the committee yesterday, did not provide an explanation. Because according to the information on the committee, he's been searching for four years. A person committed an accident that resulted in the death of a person. The committee's decision was taken unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u217	There is a need to listen to Vladimir Mikolaiovich’s explanation. I think so. I am voting on the proposal to release the judge of the Arbusinsk District Court of the Mikolai district of Pampur Oleg Ivanovich in connection with the violation of the judge’s oath. Please vote. [[13:26:58]] For 258. Decision taken. Next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u218	The next Pozniakhovsky Feder Mikolaiovich is the Sanhedrin District Court of Kiev. Feder Mikolaiovich did not appear on the committee, for the first time he gave a telegram because he was being treated at the station, for the second time without explanation. The decision of the High Council of Justice was unanimous. Pozniakhov’s Feder Mikolaiovich made a judicial error, but his decision was not supported by an appeal. He deprived a 13-year-old child of his right to housing as a result of his decision, and there was an inheritance. So we voted unanimously on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u219	Is there a Feder Mikolaiovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u220	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u221	None. Then please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u222	I want to add that I really didn't get involved in custody and care and actually took away a 13-year-old girl's apartment. In less than an hour, the trial began at 9: 30 p.m., ended at 10 p.m., deprived a minor of his residence, satisfying her grandmother’s request.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u223	Is there no need to discuss it? None. I am voting on the proposal to release the judge of the District Court of Kiev of Pazniakhiv, Fedor Mikolaiovich, in connection with the violation of the judge’s oath. Please vote. [[13:28:37]] For 271 Please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u224	The next Lésogorov Vitaly Mikolaiovich, the judge of the Odessa Economic Court, was informed twice not to appear at the committee’s meeting, so there was no interference with his absence from the committee. The committee’s decision to recommend the release is unanimous. In short, he was allowed to alienate state property for the benefit of third parties belonging to the Mintrans of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u225	Yes, please, no judge? Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please, from the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that Lasogorov Vitaly Mikolayovich was present at the meeting of the High Council of Justice, and we have studied carefully all the circumstances of the case, and the point of the infringement is that he has been looking at a whole range of cases following the claims of commercial enterprises. These are businesses that were formed either after the distribution of the former USSR and were made up of branches overseas: Hanoi, Loanda, Mozambique are those military ports that were and were not included in the distribution of this property. And then it was through which societies such as Indo-Chinese society were formed, it was Hanoiport and so on, and he was looking at these lawsuits, which contributed to the transfer to ownership, to the ownership of other people. These decisions are now overturned and are being checked by the investigating authorities. I have made an offer to release the head of the Odessa Economic Court and I will insist that we consider it as well. So it's obvious that what's not here today, Vitalia Mikolaiovich, is an intentional exodus. Please support the decision of the High Council of Justice and release him from office.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u227	Yes, please, Kravkov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u228	Adam Ivanovich, we don't really want to cancel the functions of the Supreme Council of Justice, but as the People's Deputy's Deputy, I don't know him personally, I don't know what he's really up to, and a medical certificate that he's got a tumor in the intertwinal area. And there's evidence that he has a limited regime, he's practically in the hospital. And he's asking me as a national deputy to sound it. He wrote to the committee that he gave a telegram and simply moved it because he can't be here after the operation. At the discretion of the hall. Once again, we do not know the essence, we trust, of course, the Supreme Council of Justice, but if the human tumor is removed and there is a certificate and it has been attached to me, I think I need to pay attention to it and consider it at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u229	Adam Ivanovich, the committee really had a health report, but unfortunately, for formal reasons, we were unable to postpone, so we voted. Yes, there was.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u230	Yes, I see they are eager to discuss yet. Please log in 1 minute from the faction. Vladimir Filipenko, “BUT – Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u231	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the point is that we have repeatedly talked about this, that all the judges who are recommended to be released by the High Council of Justice are all completely ill. Along with the committee's decision on this, I stress once again that the committee will be all cases when the judge submits a telegram that he is sick, all cases will be checked. Because in the vast majority, when a judge writes that he is sick and provides help, the doctor who allegedly wrote this letter does not even know that such help was being provided. And such facts are known to the committee and to the people's deputies and to the members of the committee. So once again, I point out that all the judges are slowly ill in order to actually avoid responsibility for those, I'm not afraid of that word, the crimes they committed, and who will then be subject to investigation by the competent authorities. So the point is that there is a decision of the High Council of Justice, there is a decision of the committee, and I ask you to weigh it and support the position of both the High Council of Justice and the Justice Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u232	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Odessa.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u233	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I was sad to see how they waved their hand today when they decided on the Mukativ District Court of Zakarpatski District, according to Judge Rizkov Vitaly Hennadijovich, 38 votes in favour. But the conclusion and the Attorney General's Office, who was filing, showed that the property in Sevastopol, Mr. Mikhailo Chechetov, in Sevastopol, was being dealt with in Zakarpat. And because they don't want to move that property, it's just one 20-page episode. I mean, there's corruption all over the place. And that's why the High Council of Justice rightly asked the judge the question, as it did the other judges. And we've now seen that the High Council of Justice has so far been absolutely right to ask all the questions. That's why the committee looked into it. In view of the fact that a sick person is sick or not sick, let us consider the matter. We didn't have that kind of data at the committee meeting. But I suggest we go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u234	Yes. Paul Sulkowski has the opportunity to express himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u235	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The predecessor, my colleague, just spoke in defense of our previous vote, which we have really not made the right decision there and so forth. He better say he's defending a judge of the Raven City Court, who's been out of work for two years now, he's taken about 600 walks, and he still wants to bring him in through the High Council of Justice and the Supreme Council Committee. That's why I'm making an offer today. True enough, when the judge ruled, he took the decision in favor of his and his individual criminals, foreigners, and then had no swelling in his head. By the time he arrived today, he would have to be taken and, in fact, planted for playing the part that he had disgraced the court of Ukraine, and he would be shunned today, and he would have to be sick for years when he would have to come to court. That's why I'm asking you to release me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u236	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The only thing I would ask is, let's still be merciful, not knowing the point and so on, not giving grades, anyway, let's not talk about things on emotion that we can probably not know. So I'd like to stay away from that. I am voting on the proposal to release the judge of the Odessa District Court of Justice Vitalia Mikolaiovich from office in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Please vote. [[13:36:24]] For 239. Decision taken. Thus, dear colleagues, we have considered questions related to the election and release of judges. Are there no comments on these issues? Please, Ephraim. Efremova’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, there are a large number of judges here today. And in their decisions, when they make decisions, most of them are always objective. I think we should also show examples of objectivity in this room. We have reviewed all the materials that have been raised four times by the Committee on Judge Korsun Oksane Nikolayevne. And there's not a single claim against this person in the materials they gave us. I think what happened in the hall was a huge test for the man the whole country is looking at today. That's why I have, Adam Ivanovich, a huge request to you and a purely human and objective one, let's go back to the decision on this judge, let's not break the man's fate and let him continue to work and make his decisions objectively. And I believe that this approach will be welcomed by the judiciary in terms of the objectivity of the work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u238	Alexander Sergiyovich, your honor, you know that we have made a motion to return to the vote in accordance with the Rules. There's an offer to go back to that. Who's to go back to the question of assigning a judge to Corsun on an untimely basis? [[13:38:45]] For 261 We're back. I am voting on the proposal to elect an untimely judge of the Pyratin district court of the Poltav district of Korsun Oksana Mikolayovna. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:39:14]] For 261 Decision taken. I fully accept the observation of my colleague Matthew that I broke the rules. Please, Your Honor, don't follow my lead. Question completed. Thank you. Those invited to consider the question of the appointment and release of judges may be free. We continue to consider the issues of second reading. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on improving the mechanism for the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens in the conduct of operational and counter-investigative activities]] Registration number 4663. There is a proposal for a committee to postpone the bill. Please support this proposal. Vote. [[13:40:27]] For 219 Not supported. A draft law is under consideration. Please, Sweden Victor Dmitrovich. Who's from the committee? Yes, there are no desirable ones. Then let me carry out their mission, I'll go through the second reading procedure. Again, as they did before the break, we will be those amendments that are not counted, or those that are counted, but insist that the authors confirm them. Squibby, 13th. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 14th. Are you insisting? Please, the Europe microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u239	I would like to draw your attention, my distinguished colleagues, to the following amendment. If we now grant this bill to the Prosecutor's Office full control over the operational and search activities, which would mean that the operational units and the militias and the BSS will receive only the prosecutor's consent before they start doing anything. We will not need the post of Minister of the Interior or the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, because they will be replaced by only one person, the Attorney-General. I think it is wrong, I believe that there should be a balance of power in the State, so I have made such an amendment. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u240	I see. I'm betting on the vote of 14th amendment of colleague Voropeyeva. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:42:20]] For-183 Not supported. Correction of Pisarenko, 25. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Correction of Voropeyeva, 30. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u241	I take off all my other amendments, and I don't insist on them because they no longer make sense after the previous vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u242	I see. Scybinethic, 39th and 40th. Don't insist. Scybinetsky, 47th. Don't insist. Casualty, 48th. Don't insist. He's done his repairs, yes. Everyone else is accounted for. I am voting on the proposal for a second reading of the whole Law No. 4663 amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving the mechanism for the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens in the conduct of operational and search activities]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:43:50]] For the 10th. The bill is not supported. He is regarded as being rejected. Draft Act No. 2231 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons and Children with Disabilities is under consideration. [[on the support of persons who care for children with disabilities in need of constant foreign care]] The reporter is Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u243	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Suškević will report to you on a bill on State social assistance for disabled children and children, and it actually applies to parents of disabled children who, regardless of the fact of work, will receive with you State aid a little but important for the budget of a family with a disabled child. I thank you for supporting this bill in the first reading, 364 members of the people supported it. Our committee’s second reading included eight suggestions, four of which were taken into account in whole or in part, and four were rejected. In principle, they are what today, let's say they have no option, because part of the amendments touch on the violation of article 116 of the Rules, and they cannot be accounted for, and part of them have a technical nature that cannot be taken into account. I want to say that the Chief Legal Authority does not have any comments on the proposed bill in the second reading. We have every reason, our respectable colleagues, to vote positively and adopt this very social law that applies to families with children with disabilities in general. Please be supportive and ready to listen to the amendments that national MPs insist on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u244	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the words of the chairman of the committee and invite you. And I recommend it. And I'm not just recommending, but I'm paying attention to the other committee heads so that what's actually going on in violation of the 116th article isn't included in the second reading. There are no other comments other than the violation of 116 articles, all taken into account, so I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and in the entire Act of 2231 amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons from Childhood and Children with Disabilities. [[on the support of persons who care for children with disabilities in need of constant foreign care]] Please vote. [[13:46:57]] For-55 The factions? Please. Region Party 13, BUT-Paternity – 4, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 20. 11, the communists – 27, the "Lithuania Block", the non-fractional – there are no votes. There's no such thing as motive. Draft Law on Debt Reduction to the Pension Fund of Ukraine Give it to Carmazin because he didn't take it. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u245	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'm addressing Mr. Ephraim's faction. He was now talking about justice, and I supported it as well as the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. And now I want to say. Dear National Deputies! That allowance that's being set up to take care of a disabled child, I repeat, a disabled person! – and which is included in this bill, it is completely scarce, it is foreseen since 1 January 2011, not right now. And let's not keep it that way. The price of the law is 500 or 700,000 dollars. At a time when the road to Vishgrad alone cost 55 million dollars. What are you doing, people?Oh, my God! Let's review your views and vote correctly, support Suszkewicz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u246	Yes, the bill was not Suškević. He answered from the committee. There is a draft Act on debt reduction to the Pension Fund of Ukraine of enterprises of strategic importance and economic importance and the restoration of the pension rights of their employees. Another second reading. [[Registration number 4218]] Please, the microphone of Suškevitch Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u247	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I will literally say two words about the previous bill. You know, it's certainly a mistake that we didn't support children with disabilities and families where children with disabilities are, because nobody paid attention to the law coming into force in 2012. Dear friends, in 2012 we could still have a small amount of money, and for the severely ill, only the children of the family from 2011. We did a lot of serious work on the committee to support families with disabled children. Unfortunately, the bill is not supported, I think it's a mistake. I'd like to look a little bit more closely at these social, acute social bills, which are not populist, I emphasize, they're very balanced. Thank you. Now what we're talking about is what we're talking about in the 4218 bill, which is about reducing the debt owed to the Ukrainian Pension Fund to enterprises that are strategically important and economic enterprises and restoring the pension rights of their employees. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the bill is complex in substance both the economic component and the social component. The economic component is going to be in a situation of economic crisis, which, unfortunately, has not ended, to increase the financial capacity of enterprises that are strategically important for the economy and security of the state in times of economic crisis. But there's another point: we stopped the pension insurance of our employees who work in these companies. And to address the problem of taking into account periods of indemnity and salary to assign pensions to employees who owed to the Pension Fund, just the social aspect of the bill, which will also enable real restructuring of debts, still provide social support for insurance, after pension insurance for workers, hundreds of thousands of workers working in these enterprises. I want to say that the General Legal Office is, I mean, it is. I point out that at this point it is social, and the bill also sets out the procedure for the restructuring of corporate debt, which is strategically relevant, from the payment of insurance contributions to the general government pension insurance. I would like the honourable national deputies to support this bill in their second reading. I mean, of all the amendments, 12 were rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u248	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u249	17 counts. Please support the bill in second reading. The bill is written by national deputy Suškević and honorary colleague Hara Vasil Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u250	Let's get some repairs. Please, first, Carmazin. Are you insisting? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u251	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm not going to say that this law is as important as it was before. But the name of this law is proposed in the following wording: the amendment to the Ukrainian Act on the mandatory State Pension Insurance. [[on the reduction of the debt to the Ukrainian Pension Fund of enterprises of strategic importance for the economy and security of the State and the restoration of the pension rights of their employees]] It's about that detail, where it's written, of the coal industry and so on. All of this is combined with one general word that has strategic significance for the economy and security of the State. But the fact that the pension rights of the employees of these companies are being violated today because they are not being paid, I think they have been conducted throughout the law and in many cases they will be violated again. So I ask for the title of the law to be changed to a more, in my opinion, appropriate name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u252	I'll put the first amendment to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:53:52]] For -6 Not supported. Serbian friend, don't insist. Carmazine's fifth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u253	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! This law has a preamble that bears no legal burden. For example, it is purely eloquent and says: The law regulates the issue of repayment of debts to the Pension Fund of Ukraine, enterprises. The pension fund should be filled with what? And they don't have workers today who work in other fields to fill out the Pension Fund, and others don't. Therefore, the explanation given in this article, in the preamble to this law, has absolutely no legal burden, so I ask that the first reading of the preamble of the law be abolished. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u254	I'm betting on the fifth amendment of Carmazin, please. Your amendments so far are not Valery Mikhailovich, so you'll say, essentially, too. [[13:55:05]] For-7. Marouschenko doesn't insist, Serbin doesn't insist. 9th Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u255	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The first article of this law states that the operation of this law extends to enterprises irrespective of the form of ownership and activity assigned to a list of enterprises that are strategically relevant to the economy and security of the State approved by the Government of Ukraine and which are insurers under the Pension Insurance Act. In doing so, article 3 of this Law does not extend to coal - mining enterprises whose fines and pennies are written in accordance with article 5, paragraph 2, of the law’s final provisions. I don't think it's a constitutional norm, and I ask you to cancel this rule, because everyone has to pay for the Pension Fund. The pension fund has to be filled and there's no deficit, which is why we keep taking money from the International Monetary Fund. Not us, but your government does. So I'm asking you to cancel this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u256	The 9th amendment is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:56:42]] For-7. Not supported. 14th. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u257	Yuri Carmazin. I'm yelling about our government, and I want to point out that the government of the previous Yulia Timoshenko didn't want to take that kind of money to the IMF, so you know what happened. Thus, the amendment refers to the difference in the first reading of article 20, article 2, where the term “debt” refers to the payment of insurance premiums and the sums of mortgages that arose on or on March 1, 2009 and were not repaid, are set aside for another five years. Who will fill the Pension Fund? That's why I don't think this is a constitutional issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u258	There's a 14th amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:58:08]] For -8 Not supported. The 19th Amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u259	Yuri Carmazin. I take it that my amendment concerns the cancellation of the position that is envisaged when the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decides to decommission the mortgage in accordance with article 20 of this law, the fine and the penalty for the decommissioning of the sum of the mortgages are not included. I think that all businesses in this case have to work in one legal field, and those businesses that do not run properly should not be financed from the budget, or from the International Monetary Fund's accounts, of which no cash in the previous government has been financed for these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u260	An amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:59:28]] For-9 Not accepted. 27th. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u261	Yuri Carmazin. Obviously, there is a question, and how will the insurance workers’ pensions be carried out. Thus, it is written in this law, the amendment of Suškević, which reads: “The period for which the mortgage is decommissioned is accounted for in a system of personalised assessment of the premiums as a period for which insurance contributions are paid in full.” So, dear friends, I believe that article 4 in the first reading, which is accepted, is: “Since the date of the signing of the Disruption Agreement in the Personalised Payment System of Contributions to the Pension Fund, marks have been made on the full payment of insurance premiums for the relevant periods.” Wow! Do you understand how? Nothing's paid to the Pension Fund, then it's written that it's coming in, it's coming in, it's coming in, and it's going to go down again. So I don't think this article can be accepted in this way either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u262	The 27th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:00:58]] For-7. Not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, I continue this meeting until the conclusion of this debate. The 29th Amendment of Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u263	Adam Ivanovich, I don't want to take your time. I don't think I'm going to insist on any further amendments. I just want the current government of Mikola Azarova to show us where, where he's going to get the money he's going to send to the Pension Fund, if we're going to get everyone out of paying the money, and then we're going to write that if we're done, we're going to count all of these costs. What should we count?Oh, my God! If it's zero, it's zero. How can we do that? Because of this, I am opposed to making the budget unrealistic, that we are not amending the budget legislation at the same time, that we are not doing all this, that we are not balancing, and that we are making an even greater crisis that may arise in the direction of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u264	Yes, thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. All the amendments have been made. Please, Valery Mikhailovich, who is proposing a committee under this bill and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u265	Suggestion: Accept in the second reading and in general. The bill is extremely relevant, I repeat, and it harmonises the economic component of these enterprises in strategic and economic enterprises, and the social component that applies to people who do not accept this bill, and with the situation, the failure to pay these companies to the Pension Fund remains outside of pension insurance. Please support as a whole as a matter of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-09-m0.u266	Yes, thank you. Please consider that there are also serious observations of scientific and expert, more loyal, legal administration. I put to the vote a bill number 4218 on debt reduction to the Ukrainian Pension Fund for enterprises of strategic importance and to coal-based enterprises and the restoration of the pension rights of their employees. [[14:03:47]] For 258. The law is passed. The morning session of the Supreme Council is closed. Break till 4:00.
