ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:48]] Cards were registered in the 386 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian National Deputies Poluniev Yuri Volodymyrovich and Saint Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Please welcome our colleagues, wish them success. [[Applause]] The honourable national deputies, I provide information on the summary of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the period from 1 to 4 June 2010, five plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were held, 70 issues of the agenda were discussed, 10 laws and 8 regulations were adopted, five bills and 1 draft decree were adopted on the basis, 3 bills were sent for re-reading to the committee, 3 bills were returned to the committee for further processing with the second reading, 21 bills were rejected; 1 law was adopted in the new edition, 1 law was rejected, and 72 parliamentary requests were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer your attention to the announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as with the minutes of the meeting of the Communist Party of Ukraine of 15 June 2010, I inform you that instead of Martinjik Adam Ivanovich, in connection with his election as First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the Communist Party has been elected National Deputy Valentin Grigorovich Matviyev. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with declarations, proposals, and communications. I ask the authorized factions to sign up for the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikola Martinenko, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction. John Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! In recent times, there has been much talk and writing about 100 days of new power. One indicator of its “accomplishment” is the numerous protests by journalists against the pressures of freedom of speech. [[in quotes]] Perhaps one of the officials will set himself up for the merit of approval, which is increasingly mastering the information space. For us, this is a powerful testimony to the real state of freedom of speech in Ukraine. It's about folding one of the fundamental principles of democracy, and it's at an accelerated rate. And that's the point where we need to look at the limitations of the language "5 channels" and the TV channel, which have the courage to objectively inform society, to give alternative ideas. The government is consistently trying to control all the information space. The last example was the conflict around the channels mentioned. The situation with freedom of speech was resonant both in Ukraine and abroad. In particular, both the representative of the U.S. State and the rapporteurs of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have warned that they would closely monitor violations of freedom of expression in Ukraine, and the European Commission is going to raise this topic at the forthcoming meeting of the Council of Cooperation “Ukraine-EU”. I will remind the well-known truth: “The free press is good or bad, but the slave press is only bad.” The “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction supports the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission in Parliament to deny the frequency of these channels and is ready to delegate its representatives there. However, experience shows that the work of such commissions is quite long - term, and the problem requires an immediate response. So our faction offered to listen to all parties involved in the conflict in the Supreme Council tomorrow. Above all, heads of government, such as the Nacradis on television and radio. It is also logical to invite the leaders of the 5 channel and the TVi. It takes maximum publicity and openness to address this sensitive issue for society. The NS-NS also supports the proposal to listen to the Minister of Interior on Friday from a range of issues related to freedom of speech. We hope that the Parliamentary Committee on Freedom of Speech will address the issue of “5 channels” and TVi as quickly and impartially as possible and make appropriate recommendations for consideration by the Supreme Council. I'm sure the profile committee will demonstrate a professional and balanced approach. Recent events have demonstrated the particular significance of the N.C.A. on television and radio, which is the one that licenses television channels and distributions of speech frequencies. Now we see the clear intention of the authorities to take the Nakrad under full control. It is not enough that half of the members of the Council are formally appointed by the President, that there is a high probability that the parliamentary “four” will be appointed by him, but informally. In response to this invitation from the Supreme Council to decide on the election of the National Television and Radio Broadcasting Board of At least two representatives from opposition factions, the opposition will be given any significant control over the work of this constitutional body. The ruling coalition can finally demonstrate that democracy, freedom of speech and the right of opposition are not an empty sound for the authorities. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" has already defined its professional candidate for the Nacrada. The opposition colleagues from the BUT faction, I think there's also a worthy candidate. I hope that such an offer will find support for all without the exception of the factions of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u3	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Next is Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, forerunners, dear voters! The triumphant fanfare responded to the 100 - day work of the new government. Clearly, society has made it clear that the new team is doing well. For those of you who have more or less an analysis, clearly, the situation in the country is difficult. We will not be naive when the disaster in Europe, Japan declared collapse, we do not live on Mars either. You literally got us and ate us up for a budget deficit of a hundred billion dollars. You've got a hole in your cash register of 140-170 billion -- that's a terrible sum. Some government structures are already paying wages at the expense of other sources, and this is not the evening. On the other hand, you want strong and constructive opposition, so listen to us, we are not indifferent to the fate of Ukraine and our fellow countrymen and, frankly, as you are, we want good for all. So, first of all, do not exasperate people. It's been a week since the reports on extremely affordable gas prices from the Russian Federation have been silent. Why, then, are there alarming signals from all over the country about the sharp rise in municipal tariffs and service prices, starting with the capital? Or do local authorities not know about almost free gas? Then find out who's setting someone up here, bring someone who's getting too excited. The other one. Isn't every day of your time you've been trying to get us to cooperate with the IMF, but what did you start with? Yet, even from the first day on, the IMF was assured that you would find the money without external loans. Couldn't, didn't they? We don't mind these loans. Take it. But not on such humiliating terms. Last year, Julia Timoshenko received more than 10 billion favorable loans for Ukraine, without conditions. Half of them went to rescue the National Bank. And you humbly agree to do all the creditors' demands. What is worth raising the retirement age of all women under the age of 65? Who told you that? Has anything changed for the better since the introduction of today’s retirement age? But you can ask how chemicals, miners, metallurgy, uranium miners and other mines, coxochemicals, mechanics, and animals relate to these woes. And these are our basic professions. You're saying it won't be right away. Then look at the health of those concerned tomorrow. What about the hundreds of thousands of young men and girls who receive their first job each year instead of those who go on deserved rest? Tomorrow, according to your reform, this job will still be occupied for five to ten years. What Should Youths Do? Sleeping? Third. Whoever's talking and what's important to the authorities is where to take the money. At first, do not lose them as freely as the Stockholm Court’s decision was taken because of the inaction of power. At the expense of whom will we give more than five billion dollars from the budget? Let's gather together in peace, create a special commission, figure out and protect Ukraine at least at the parliamentary level. Next. Not in a hundred days, but in the next few hours, we can work out so - called investments. How much more to be ashamed of the fact that the main investor in Ukraine is neither Germany nor the United States nor even Russia, and the small island in the Mediterranean is Cyprus. Ironically, the main investor in Cyprus, in turn, is Ukraine. Officially, in just a few weeks, $6.8 billion of U.S. Please tell me, which IMF is going to cover up such gifts? And it's also known that you're going to be taxing fellow countrymen who have real estate and deposits in banks. Interesting money. But notice this: only 0.3 percent of our citizens have accumulated, owned and managed wealth for a record time, equal to nearly half of the country’s annual GDP. Their assets, including deposits, and real estate, are usually not in Ukraine. What about them? You, as you say, are strong and powerful, take your mind off it, and here again, so that there will be no "beat-on-the-bit connection": you will bet those who just stand on their feet and still live and work here. There are many other suggestions that we would like to consider this week. So take your time to scratch at the door, where we are not particularly expected, and let us keep our house in order while there is still a loan of trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u5	Mikola Kravchenko, a faction of Communists, will be the next to act as the Spice of Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! On behalf of the Communist faction, I would like to raise a question that concerns three quarters of the population today, which is deprived and unable to endure what is happening today in housing and utilities. I would like to raise the issue of its status and the measures that members of all levels of the Donetsk region are taking to protect the interests of the population. Housing and utility in the Donetsk region, as in the entire State, has been brought to the “rubka”. Its well-being requires substantial capital investments, housing and utilities are unable to provide the population with quality services today. In-house, engineering and communication equipment has become unusable for further exploitation. The failure to provide housing services has become a norm, leaky roofs of multi-storey houses, leaked water pipes, crumbling debris and damaged domestic areas, flooded with sewers and daily alarming expectations of new breakthroughs and floods have led the lodgers to despair. Multitonal correspondences between residents and heads of housing and utilities, local governments, ministries and agencies convince citizens that individual treatment is not effective. Not everyone can, and not so simply, defend their right in court, and all of this is against the backdrop of constant threats to the promotion of public services, the cost of utilities. Having been tired of the many years-old, well-arranged, ineffectual disputes with the utilities of the managing company of the Lenin district of Donetsk, representatives of the Joint Home Committees of the Lenin district of Purchak, Grakova, representatives of the Pésadé SLM, Firs, members of the Lenin district council, headed by the communists, took the initiative of establishing the Lenin district public organization Barrier, whose main task is certain. Protection of the rights of legitimate interests of residents to quality housing and utility services. On 26 May this year, a founding assembly was held of the inhabitants of the area, which was attended by 380 people. The Assembly unanimously decided to establish an organization and elected a council to which the organization was mandated to legalize by notification. Communist Cleaner has been elected Chairman of the Council. The Council plans to gather and compile soon information on the status of the housing fund in the area, the treatment and response of residents of the management company. Then make proposals to the district council of Donetsk for a meeting of House Representatives, with the invitation of the heads of the JECOV and the utilities, followed by a meeting of the district council. The Donec Roundup of the Company of Ukraine last week supported and is currently working on the establishment of such public organizations in all cities and regions of the region. Protests against unwarranted and illegal expected increases in housing and utility tariffs are planned. The protests began last Saturday in the Ambrosiv region, against the illegal raising of water tariffs. As a result of these actions, he was forced to rescind his earlier decision. The third problem that will arise in the heat season is the legality of the creation of a thermal power utility, which grossly violates the laws almost annually upon the imposition of tariffs on these services. I call on everyone everywhere in the field to draw attention to the situation in housing and utilities and together with the representatives of all levels, to help the population overcome this disease. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u7	Špak Vasil Fedorovich, faction of the Lithuanian Block, next will be Hara Vasil Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u8	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The agrarian reforms that began in the 1990s were much in progress. gave rise to many problems in their path, and the desired results did not result. Powerful agrarian production was not expected to be reformed. Most dispersed small private farms have not been able to unite in collective agricultural enterprises, whose organizational form is much more efficient and productive, as evidenced by the experience of Russia, as well as of Germany, Sweden, the Czech Republic, Hungary, and other successful European nations. For example, the former German Democratic Republic in the 1990s did not detail the land in small areas, as we did, but passed it on to collective agricultural enterprises with solid arrays in a long-term lease, and then it was stocked with peasants, making it a full stock of shareholders and landowners. Our finely carved earth’s cobwebs have turned into solid roads and paths for the passage and passage of owners to their areas. They look from the heights. They look like a map of Europe. As a result, an estimated 2.5 million hectares [2.5 million ha] were removed from production and nearly 5 million hectares [5 million ha] of rich fertile Ukrainian land. Because of the imperfect legislative base, the lack of land cadastre, the land market law, the state bank, the active agrarian reforms are halting further development of agricultural production, the cost of bread, milk, meat, sugar and other essential food products is increasing, which are being produced less and less. Compared with the Soviet period, the production of milk and meat has fallen several times, meat is missing in sausages, milk products are essentially synthetic. Sugar production from 6 to 8 million tonnes in 1990 decreased to 1.3 million tons in 2009, with a demand for consumption of 2.2 million tons, which means that Ukraine from the exporting country of sugar became a State importer. Out of 190 past-acting sugar factories, only 56 remain, and others are dismantled on scrap metal. It gives no positive results to either the state or the society of the great grain shaft that we are saving for. Another result would be if half the grain as it used to be passed through the animal industry. It's a shame to talk about this today, but these are the facts behind the scarce agrarian reforms. Another painful issue related to agrarian reforms is land rental. Without developing a clear strategy for the creation of stock holdings on the basis of plentiful land, the state launched this process on its own, using a variety of so - called investors. In various ways, the land of peasants is owned, some of the leased land is not registered in the land cadastre, and the land tax is not paid accordingly. Free use is made of land that is envisioned under roads and borders between ponds. Thus, agrarian reforms today are so deformed and have not produced the desired result that someone is profiting from them and the peasant is poor and singing. The workers leave the villages and go to work abroad. The creation of new jobs in the countryside, as envisaged by the reforms, did not take place, but the reduction continues. The Lithuanian Bloc has initiated the adoption of the necessary laws, including the imposition of a moratorium on land for an agro-industry complex, particularly after the restoration of domestic animal production, the reduction of tax burden on agricultural producers, the allocation of public budget funds to the development of agricultural production. Trouble requires the creation of a system of reliable mortgage lending to the agricultural sector, direct access by agricultural producers to the agricultural market, integrated and efficient use of land, and so on. The implementation of these and other measures, supported by the government, will significantly advance agrarian reforms, will ensure the food security of the state and rural people a decent standard of living. The mistakes made since the beginning of the agrarian reforms should no longer exist. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u9	Hara Vasil Georgievicz, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u10	Thank God, life's coming together. That is what most citizens today who have survived the five years of poverty, humiliation and spiritual trauma say. One of the first decrees of the newly elected President Yanukovic to combat poverty was launched by the Act on the Promotion of Social Standards. The law, which was a budget bomb for the Government of Timoshenko, became part of the anti-crisis measures under the new authority. An absolute benefit in the context of the economic crisis is the increase in minimum wage in 2010 by almost 40 per cent. On average, by 35 per cent, the subsistence minimum will increase to 875 bracelets by the end of the year, an increase of 200 bracelets over the 2009 living minimum. However, inflation is projected at 13 per cent. Thus, for 2010, there was a pre-eminent increase in the official minimum of subsistence, i.e. wages and all benefits compared to inflation rates. From 1 January 2010, the minimum pension will increase from 573 to 695 bracelets, i.e. by 122 bracelets. By the end of the year, it will have grown to 734. Let's say it's a decent addition. But, of course, those who have given birth to decades of their active work want and thanks to the new power for significant improvements cannot be satisfied with the situation as a whole. And the reason here is simple. The orange power had destroyed the economy and finance for five years and had been trampling on pension reform for so many years. I will remind everyone that it was Janukovic who took the courage in 2004 to introduce the first phase of pension reform that enabled it to be significantly aligned and streamlined in the solidarity system and to make it more equitable. But the solidarity system is now operating under maximum financial stress and cannot meet the needs of pensioners who lose half of their earnings when they retire. The savings system, which should make the pensioner's life healthy, has not been established in the last five years. The non-State pension scheme is also in its initial state. These three levels of the solidarity and savings system and non-State pension schemes should constitute a pension reform of the European model to ensure the well-being of pensioners. The demographic situation must also be added to all these problems. In the country, the highest level of ageing in Europe and the lowest fertility rate. As a result, there are nine pensioners in Ukraine today. Thank God, the time has come again, and today another step is being prepared to drive the mind of pension reform. The Cabinet of Ministers has developed a concept that is: the first is to introduce long-awaited equality of citizens in pension approaches, to establish uniform rules for the appointment of pensions, the second is to eliminate pension imbalances, the third is to increase pensions for persons with disabilities, children, orphans, multi-child mothers and others. Amend legislation with a view to improving the recalculation and indexing of pensions. All of this will produce positive results and improve the well-being of pensioners. A few words about retirement age. Viktor Janukovic said that this would not happen soon, although it must be understood that sooner or later this matter should be addressed, but it should be done with caution after a broad debate in society. Dear colleagues, I would like to mention another shift in the current Cabinet of Ministers with regard to the payment of the budget. For the first time in two years, the defrosting of the tariff network and the level of the single tariff network in the salaries of budget workers began. Think of it, in 2008-2009, it was a disgraceful 545 bracelet, and this year it will grow to 778. Salaries will be made. In 2010, the budget will receive a substantial wage supplement. Already today, many categories of workers have significantly improved their position, calculated by hundreds of bracelets. For a long time, we have a country with a shameful phenomenon such as the delay in wages. In May, our Committee considered this matter on the submission of the Court of Auditors'report and addressed the Prime Minister. On 8 June, a high meeting was held under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister, all Deputy Prime Ministers, most Ministers and all Governors. A clear decision has been taken to cover all the problems of non-payment of wages. The target is to reduce debt by 30 per cent by 1 July and 100 per cent by the end of the year by 100 per cent by the end of the year for all economically active enterprises. inactive enterprises that do not work, but approximately. Millions will be eliminated in the first half of the year. There is a positive movement in all areas of activity in Ukraine, the programme.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u11	Finish up. Dear colleagues, the performances of authorized factions took place. With regard to the proposals made by the national deputies, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate referrals and assignments. Also, honourable colleagues, I am informing you that a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission on the study of issues related to the decision of the National Council on frequency allocation has arrived. Let us therefore, perhaps, honourable colleagues, step forward, I would ask the factions to submit their nominations immediately to this commission so that we can make the appropriate decision, set strict, short deadlines for the work of the Interim Inquiry Commission, so that it can determine all the circumstances surrounding this problem. I'd like to ask the faction leaders to listen to this proposal so that we can make a concrete decision. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretariat, Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization. [[Registration number 6474]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee of Makeinko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Please. Briefly, if I may.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on 2 June 2010, the Committee considered a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy, Fomin Alexandr Viktorovich, a member of the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, on his election as a member of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. Taking into account that the calculated quota for the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko at the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government has not been fully used, the Committee decided to support the application of the Ukrainian national deputy, Fomin Aleksandra Viktorovic, and to submit a corresponding draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at number 6474. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, no objection? I'm voting on the proposal for a committee on the adoption of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, namely the election of Fomin Alexander Viktorovich, Ukrainian National Deputy from the multi-mandatory public constituency of the Yulia Timoshenko, the Yulia Timoshenko faction, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[Registration number 6474]] Please vote. [[10:31:55]] "To" – 340 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Ordinance on the report of the head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Industrial Safety, Labour Protection and Mining Control of Storkczak S.O. on the status of industrial trauma cases and the amended Parliamentary Hearing Order on "The State of Industrial Safety and Labour Protection" on 17 November 2010. [[Registration numbers 6030, 6030-d]] I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:32:44]] For – 197 Decision taken. Rapporteurs: Ukrainian national deputy Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko and head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Svetlana Alexandrovna Šmelov. Mikola Vasilovich, Mikolo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u14	Dear colleagues and distinguished voters, on February 2nd, I registered the draft Ordinance on the report of the head of the State Committee on Industrial Safety, Labour Protection and Mining Control of Storkczak on the status of industrial trauma. Why did I do that? The fact is that labour security and industrial safety at work are a part of the social protection of workers. All that impedes the social security of the population today is part of the concept. The most serious component of industrial trauma is the coal industry. The overall injury in mines increased from seven per cent to 9.3 per cent, with 8.3 per cent more deaths in coal mines, and increased the number of coal miners who earned the disease. If you count on a hundred slaves. By a thousand injuries, 7.8 per cent were reduced, and by one million tons of coal, it increased by 0.2. Each million tons of black gold produced is costed to Ukraine by three lost miners. Today it's not a secret that there's statistics in coal companies. a well-established pattern of industrial trauma into a regular household, hence the decline in statistics. Everyone participates in this process: leadership, trade unions and medicine. That's why I asked. I would like the deputies to vote in favour of this report. During the consideration of this issue, my draft decree was born with the idea of expanding the scope of the report and holding parliamentary meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u15	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u16	and hold parliamentary hearings. As the author of the decree, I agree with this question, and I would like all the deputies to take this serious decision to vote in favour of holding parliamentary hearings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u17	Thank you. Svetlana Alexandrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u18	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on 12 May 2010, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work reviewed the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the head of the State Committee on Industrial Safety, Labour Protection and Mining Control of Storkczak on the state of affairs of industrial trauma, registration number 6030, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Kravchenko. The subject of the legislative initiative proposes to put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the sixth session of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee acknowledged the inappropriately isolated hearing in the Chamber of Plenary Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a report by the head of the State Committee on Industrial Safety, Labour Protection, and Mining Oversight of Storkczak on the status of industrial trauma without a more comprehensive discussion of industrial safety and labour protection. Given that the issue had a social interest and a narrow subject, members of the committee decided to hold parliamentary hearings in the Chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, thereby involving society, trade and employers. Taking into account the above and in accordance with articles 14 and 28 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and part of the first article 234 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the members of the Committee are introducing a draft Decision on the holding of parliamentary hearings on 17 November 2010 on the topic “On the Status of Industrial Security and Labour Protection”. In this regard, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Law on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u20	Everyone please join and support the bill. Please listen, listen to this very important thing for people, for workers. I'm telling you all your questions, think about what I'm talking about right now. We need to back up the parliamentary hearings, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, the proposal is that the Ukrainian national deputy, Mikola Kravchenko, is ready to withdraw his draft decision to hear the report if the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees and supports the parliamentary hearings in November 2010 to consider this issue, which is extremely relevant and painful. Is there no objection to the vote? There is a request to speak on this matter. Please sign up. Please record. Please explain the names of the national MPs. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u22	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Of course, the problem of job security is of great importance today. The point is that the transformations that have taken place today in the system in the economy of Ukraine and which have produced many forms of property, they today need to be refined in terms of legal protection of the rights of employees employed and of all employees. Therefore, this issue must be addressed in a comprehensive manner and should apply to all areas of the Ukrainian national economy. Because mortality, especially in the mine system that today belongs to the oligarhams of the Party of Regions, is extremely high. Therefore, when we consider the matter, it is necessary to impose sanctions on those mine owners who do not resolve the issue of labour protection. And these sanctions must be such that they reproduce at least the material damage to the family of the breadwinner who died there. The same is true of some other dangerous areas. Therefore, our faction will support the holding of such hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u23	Vladimir Karpuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u24	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Our group supports this bill, and then I would like to give the floor to Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u25	Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u26	Yuri Carmazin "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to ask you, what happens by November 17th? That humans will not die? What we're still going to hear is that something happened in Bloody Rose, that, God forbid, in the Lviv region or in the Dnipropetrovsk region or in Lugansk or in Donetsk. It's time to do it! Why on November 17th? All it takes is time for the government, and I thank National Deputy Kravchenk for raising the right absolute question. That's absolutely right, stately. But we need to put on now and, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, find out the time, look at your calendar now, and we need to hold these parliamentary hearings as soon as possible before the holidays, because the government already has measures to determine, and by November we need to inform us about the measures that are being taken that fewer people are dying. That's the first one. The other one. The government should also introduce water treatment systems that are given to people, such as prevention of trauma and health. I want to say that there is now a brilliant man in Ukraine -- an academic named Petrik, who has come up with a way to clean up water today. [[He's Ukrainian, but he lives in the Russian Federation.]] So let's make the government think and then introduce these things. We have to think about how to collect and the gas that is emitted now and then just explodes. There is no such thing in any country! So I insist, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we do this in two weeks, but before we go on vacation. Change the date.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Regarding Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin's proposal, unfortunately, all other previous dates are already occupied as a result of decisions taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings. And it seems to me that the very fact that today's decision is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine will discipline the executive authority and draw attention to this gruesome problem. That is why I am voting on the proposal for a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status of Industrial Safety and Labour Protection, registration number 6030-D for adoption of the project as a decision. Please vote. [[10:43:46]] "To" – 349 Decision taken. The draft decree, registration number 6030, is off-limits. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now vote on proposals for the inclusion in the agenda of the entire group of bills. Exchange of thoughts? Please write down from each fraction for 1 minute, please. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikhailo Chechetov, then Vladimir Bondarenko and Vladimir Moisik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We have reviewed the list of bills that are proposed to be included in the agenda for subsequent consideration by the committees in the sessional room. And, in our view, these bills do have a positive, positive effect on the economy, in the case of the country's eventual adoption. We therefore propose to put each bill to the vote, and each bill will be supported by the faction of the Party of the Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u29	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u30	I give the word to Polohal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u31	Vladimir Polohalo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, distinguished Vladimir Mikhailovich, of course, should have serious arguments and take into account the Rules and Law when it comes to the inclusion in the agenda of the day’s session. For example, the draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. [[new editor]] [[6495]] Well, where's the alternative, the opposition? Why is this one the only one to be considered? So there's no alternative here. There's one. We can vote. One second. To be included in the daily routine, it is a law that touches general secondary and preschool education. Dear colleagues, this is the first time in all of Ukraine's history -- introduced yesterday, without any conclusions, without any experts, without committees, without conclusions, and today Adam Ivanovich and others want to vote on it as a basis, and then as a whole, as it was. This has never been the case in national education, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u33	Vladimir Ivanovich Moisik. Viacheslav Kirilenko, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u34	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, our group is deeply concerned about the introduction of Bill 6518. For people to know, it's essentially a return to 11-year education, which is 10 years of reform, sorry, it goes under the tail. Above all, compulsory preschool education is being introduced from the age of five. I mean, now parents can raise themselves and then guide themselves to school, and now up to five years old, the child can be in the family, and they offer coalition colleagues, at least five years old, into kindergartens, preschool education. At the same time, no one will give money for this kindergarten. Where you take these kindergartens in cities -- you don't know, they're missing. And so we're asked to take a big step back. Dear colleagues, I understand that this is not a bill of MPs, but a Minister of Tobacco who himself is afraid to submit it. But anyway, there were parliamentary hearings last week, and we need to take their recommendations first.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u35	Please, Katerina Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! On Wednesday there were parliamentary hearings, and the last speaker did not say what he had just said. And it understands why, because the teachers, the principals, the rectors of the school took 11 years to speak for one year of school, it's a preschool year. Among other things, those who save for 12 years, who say they have to go to 13 years, 14 years and 15 years of schooling, you should know, those countries that you set an example, they have these exact terms for preschool education, because that's the first line of education and education. So I think we should be honest with the teachers. They were singing one song, smiling, coming to the session, and I knew you'd talk about something else. I think we will vote on the inclusion of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u37	Dear colleagues and especially our constituents! It is unfortunate that those who oppose such changes were present at parliamentary hearings and heard the absolute majority of the participants in parliamentary hearings, teachers and parents who are taking a firm stand against the 12-year education system. Why should this law be adopted? Because if we don't make any changes now, we have to start 12 years of education since September 1. All those who have graduated from the ninth grade do not want to continue their studies now. That's the first one. The other one. If we enter the 12th year, in a year, no school, no higher college will accept anyone in the first grade, and so on, and so on. I repeat, of the 30 people who spoke at the parliamentary hearings, 8 supported the idea of the 12th anniversary, 8 did not say anything, and 14 who made a strong statement stated that it was necessary to stop at 11 classes, and representatives of all factions, apart from the opposition who were sending out grants, supported such a bill. It must be accepted, for otherwise we will not be able to make it, and since September 1, we will be 12 years of schooling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on the draft Law on amending the Code of Budgets. [[new editor]] Dear colleagues, we're just putting this issue in order of the day. At the same time, an alternative bill arrived this morning. Unfortunately, we will not be able to reproduce it in large quantities, but I believe that the drafters of the bill should also be able to present it, and the Supreme Council will decide in the course of the discussion on which to support the bill. Now it's about a bill that introduces new realities about learning terms. It would be optimal if we first accepted the recommendations of parliamentary hearings in the form of a ruling and then adopted all the other issues in the development of this document. So if the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the day, then I would ask the committee headed by Vladimir Ivanovich to prepare a draft Parliamentary Hearing Order, then we would adopt a draft parliamentary hearing order, and in developing this document we would adopt all other laws, including this one and others, that will be worked out. I think that would be the logical line of activity. Now, if you'll excuse me. I am voting on a proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. [[Registration number 6495]] [[new editor]] Please vote. And plus we're going to consider the alternative that came in this morning. From the national deputies who had approached him this morning, they urged him to consider it. [[10:52:19]] "To" – 230 Decision taken. In view of the fact that the President of Ukraine has designated this bill as urgent, I would ask the budgetary committee to prepare it immediately, in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Next. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine shall be put to the vote. [[on the introduction of an electronic state registration system for operators]] Registration number 6261. Please vote. [[10:53:16]] "To" – 241 The bill is included in the agenda. A proposal for the inclusion of a daily bill, registration number 6464, to amend the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 refers to the treatment of children. [[on the allocation of funds for treatment of cancer patients abroad]] Please vote. [[10:53:55]] "To" – 363 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending article 48 of the Mining Law of Ukraine. [[on social guarantees for mining workers]] Registration number 6437. Please vote. [[10:54:26]] "To" – 364 Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u39	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. You've just included two very important documents for consideration in the agenda, but I would like to look at them and vote consciously in favour of the positions they have put in them. First of all, regarding children and the sick. Cancer patients. I've been in the area where the city clinic is, and I can tell you, it's a terrible thing when we can't help little kids. So you have to make a very clear document that would close the question of the treatment queue. Unfortunately, we don't have a bank of bone marrow or other tools to treat children here, so we have to fully predict the removal of this problem, well, for this period, because unfortunately it happens every day. Regarding mining, I have relatives who work in the mining field, and they complain about a very so-called regression system that doesn't always work. And so we also need to realize what kind of debt we have in front of people, how we're going to put them out. So in preparation for the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u40	Thank you. Respectful colleagues, indeed, have 30 million budgeted for those with cancer. Some of these funds are earmarked. And it turns out that this is about children who lack even less than a hundred million dollars. It's a lot of money, but for the state, it's a small amount of money, and you have to predict it. Dear colleagues, there is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Land Disposal, Other Real Estate Objects, which are located in private property, for social purposes or for reasons of social necessity, registration number 6405. [[about the 2012 European Football Championship]] Please vote. [[10:56:47]] "To" – 241 Decision taken. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Legislative Acts on General secondary and pre-primary education. [[on the organization of the educational process]] Registration number 6518. Please vote. [[10:57:20]] "To" – 232 It's on. For reasons, please sign up for five minutes. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u42	Viacheslav Kirilenko, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u43	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues! Dear voters! There is now not even a 20-year shift, but a completely unconstitutional, pre-primary education. Because tobacco and the coalition don't want to give money for 12-year-old education, they offer all parents the right order from the age of five to put children in kindergartens. They don't give money to children's gardens, they don't increase their networks, they don't think about the quality of education there. This is a direct violation of the Constitution, for the Constitution provides for compulsory general secondary education and does not provide for the necessity of preschool education. So it's also neglecting the interests of children and educators, it's also a violation of the Constitution, and it's a manipulation of people in their political interests, because everyone knows that Yanukovic went with the slogan “Ten Year Education”. The slogan is not popular, so it is introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u44	The national deputy Viezovsky gives the word, the right to speak to Vladimir Karpuk, the microphone, and then to Catherine Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u45	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues! A well-known educator, a doctor of teaching science, Shalva Amonashvili, said that the worst thing we have in education is that reforms are beginning, but none of them have been brought to an end. Because the huge cost spent on 12 years of education, the prepared textbooks, the psychologically trained children, is now going to be a change that has not been made. Public discussion is widespread in society. The discussion that many people who support the transition to the tobacco system are going to be called this system, and which is voted by the coalition, we understand how the people are preparing the performance, what can be done with the school director, the rector or the teacher and provide most of the support, in the parliamentary hearings, it is possible. This is a question that needs really careful education. And you don't have to tear up the thesis right now, which started so well.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u46	Catherine Samuel, then Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u47	Thank you. First of all, we have to say that it's a matter of getting into a 12-year learning period that is widely discussed among parents and in teaching groups. So you don't have to talk about the spontaneous question. What's more, your colleague from "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" recently suggested that we move on to even a 10-year study term. And that's the law we discussed in the session room. Secondly, I don't understand, and what's so bad about compulsory preschool education. We're against having a child raised by teachers, by the state, by the government program, not by the street. And third, finally, what I wanted to say. No one prepared the speakers. Those who stood up for it for 12 years, those who thought they should stop said they said they did. You don't have to hide from the Constitution, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u48	Andrey Parubius, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u49	A boy named Andrew. Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u50	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u51	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, honourable voters, there were parliamentary hearings last week, and as a national MP, I signed up and delivered the parliamentary hearings with the same thesis that I am now making. Indeed, there is a discussion of the 12th year and it is only because the government refuses to provide adequate funding to complete this reform. But virtually no one at parliamentary hearings advocated the introduction of compulsory preschool education. Because everyone knows that there is no money for this in local self - government, that is, local communities finance kindergartens, the quality of preschool education there will not be provided in connection with these innovations, and no one will think about those kindergartens. So this is, you know, a return to the Communist era, up to five years of age in the family, and from five years of age, please put into kindergarten. Then Krupsky’s words are vindicated: “Give us your children and we will make them fighters for our idea. ” That's how it's going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u52	And Vladimir Polochalo, faction of the Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to support you on this, if we have made decisions on parliamentary hearings, then according to the procedure, the Rules and the Law, there must first be recommendations approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and then by various laws: from the deputies, from the President, from the Cabinet of Ministers. [[I support you in this.]] Now, here's the thing. Otherwise, what's the point of parliamentary hearings? Now, as to how parliamentary hearings were conducted. Some MPs were and may say, I support Kirilenko, who accurately transferred the atmosphere and essence. But, Adam Ivanovich, of the 30 speaking out of the last six were on your recommendation, less than half, and not the absolute majority, it was 14 in 11 years. So please give us accurate information. And one more thing, only three areas have officially submitted their proposals for the 11th anniversary, and all the others are not. The opinion of educators and areas, regions, should be taken into account. So let us do everything according to the rules, by law, Adam Ivanovich, and do not distort the information of parliamentary hearings. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u54	Dear National Deputies! Your view is now proposed by the draft Law on the Assembly System and the calculation of the only social contribution to the general government social insurance. There is a draft decree by the committee of this content: “Accepting the proposals made by the national deputies of Ukraine, Bondar, Suhogo, Baranova, on the withdrawal of the draft Law on the Assembly System and on the calculation of the sole social contribution to the general government social insurance. It is included in the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call and withdrawn from consideration.” So let's do it this way, because there are authors here, I see they insist. Let's look at this in a simplified way. Is there no objection? I'm putting it to a vote to consider this motion for a summary ruling. [[registration 5321]] Please vote. [[11:04:57]] "To" – 249 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Bodnar Olga Borisovna and co-rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Vasil Georgievovich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u55	Olga Bodnar, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Fathership” party. Honorable chairman, respected colleagues, respected our radio and televised listeners. The bill, which I have the honour to present from the copyright team, is one of the few projects that would really help solve such important problems as improving the public social insurance system, improving the efficiency of social insurance funds, simplifying the calculation and reporting of public social security contributions, deregulation of entrepreneurial activities. All four types of social insurance that exist today are regulated by a variety of funds, each of which is operated by a separate fund, which makes the social protection system cumbersome, complicated and inefficient. The employer has to account for and account for each type of insurance premium, report to each of the four funds, namely, unemployment, temporary loss of employment, and expenses caused by birth, burial; and from an accident at work, occupational illness, and pension insurance. And by the bill, we, our copyright team, have foreseen the introduction of a single social contribution that would unite all the social accounts that exist today, and they would be paid with one payment commission that would allow for the personification of the payment of all forms of social insurance. So we would reduce this system of administration, we would ease spending from the state budget, we would reduce, we would simplify a system that was more transparent and regulated and, you know, money would not be lost out there in the towers. I received a statement from representatives of the social organizations of the disabled who were concerned about the material loss of some part of the social benefits due to the adoption of the law. I want to say that this has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u56	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u57	This was also taken into account by law and in no way related to the reduction or reduction of social costs. So I want to say that this bill, unfortunately, is called off by the collective not because it's bad, but because I understand that in this case this room is not going to vote in favour of this bill. And I want to see how this room will then explain why a bill so important that it improves the social situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u58	Thank you. Hara Vasil Georgievovich, please, from the committee. Who will report from the committee? Please sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikola Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u59	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the European Party of Ukraine. Well, I think that this law would have to be considered in Parliament, and any political definition of each faction is in principle the answer to those questions that the authors had intended in this bill. And I would like to refer to the inclusion in the agenda of the chairman in Parliament. 2215 is a draft tax code. There is a proposal that perhaps we should postpone it today until the government introduces its bill so that we can have a meaningful discussion on this issue. And it's just going to be, I think, for the sake of tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u60	And Pavlovski, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill's author, 5321, has actually submitted the law briefly in fact. I think it's a progressive step, and a lot of it's already been said -- the introduction of the only social contribution, the organization of the congregation system -- the calculation. And the author gave us a number of motivations why we need to do this, so I don't see any logical reason to call it off when it's actually reported to him. We need to determine how to vote on this bill, whether we support it in the first reading or not. Why do these intrigues, call it off, don't call it off, it's actually already reported, we're looking at it essentially. So I invite the hall to a constructive discussion of the bill and the definition essentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. There's also Mikhailo Chechetov for the performance. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u63	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the text of the bill is practically in line with the text of Bill 0924 of 23.11. In 2007 The latter was further developed with regard to second readings and suggestions, but the President's veto was not overtaken by this law. In addition, the bill requires a more predictable, clear, transparent system for the operation of a single social contribution. This refers to the definition of an authorized body from the congregation and the calculation of the only social contribution to which the post-retirement fund will be converted into a non-profit self-governance organization. Uncertainty in this regard will have an impact not only on the whole system of the single social contribution but also on the functioning of the accrual system of pension insurance. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I am voting on a proposal by the committee for the adoption of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the removal from the draft Ukrainian Law on the System of Assembly and Accounting of the One. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I assumed a mistake here. Because the procedure requires that we first lay the groundwork for the adoption of the draft law. If he is not accepted, he will be automatically withdrawn. There is no objection. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Ukrainian law on the system of assembly and the calculation of the only social contribution to the general government social insurance. Please identify yourself. [[11:12:31]] "To" – 149 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues! Please, Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u65	Yuri Carmazin. I asked for a word on the basis of the vote. Dear National Deputies! I'm talking to a coalition representative who's in charge of voting. You've read the notes correctly, part of the observations of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, which showed that it's the same law. Our Supreme Council worked for two years, from 2007 to 2009. Unfortunately, then the President didn't understand, he vetoed, and we didn't have the votes, the courage to overcome it, and the corruption schemes prevented it, you know that. No one wants transparent control, no one wants the rules of the game that have now been proposed, correct, legitimate, civilized. That's why the bill, two years of work, was overturned by this bill, which is really similar to that, because these ideas are in many countries around the world. Why do we do this, why do we do it? I think it's wrong, the coalition has taken another gap in its conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! A draft Ukrainian Tax Code is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2215]] At the same time, there was a proposal by Mikola Dmitrovitch Catherinechuk as the author of this bill to consider it with the government. The whole problem is that we can't look at the government until the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides on the decision of the Tax Code project that you're working on. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports acceptance as a basis, then the government will make its proposals. If not, then you can ask questions about the inclusion in the agenda of the next bill. That's what the Rules require. So I'm looking at a draft of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrović, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I would like to announce to you that the reduced procedure does not deal with codes, Your Honor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u67	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I'm very pleased to present this document today, because you see it, because I don't think another document from the government you're going to see, you're going to vote it, not even reading it, because in fact what's being adopted without discussion, well, I don't think it's in the interests of most societies, because there can't be a single intelligent power or the very sensible opposition or the very intelligent people. Only in the discussion, only in the critical view of proposals, can a balanced approach to tax reform be found in responding to business offers. I'm presenting today this long-suffering document that we've started yet. He was working on it back in 2005. We've received over 2,000 suggestions from entrepreneurs to improve the Ukrainian tax system. And in 2008, the finalized document was considered in the committee of relevant legal and customs policies and was recommended last year by the Supreme Council for adoption in the first reading with further elaboration. What goal have we set for ourselves? First of all, it is to replace the penal Soviet systems of approach to taxation with the stimulating European systems listed in the Charter on Tax Relations. And it seems to us that our document is not ideal, but today it meets the requirements of the crisis phenomena that are now in Ukraine's economy. That's why we've been working hard enough on those comments that were made by the Supreme Court of Science and Technology of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine and, most importantly, entrepreneurs. Now, in this document, 43 chapters 357 of the articles, i.e. this whole today's billing wall, and it's about three thousand that regulate the relationship between entrepreneurs and taxpayers, it's in this 500 page, and it's already a certain positive that will allow more efficient use of tax legislation, to react, to change it, and the main thing is that court practice will have a certain, let's say, content and will meet those constitutional requirements that there are. This document was similarly worked on by national deputies. My name is Karmazin, Leapina, Kraljevska, Matvienko, Tarasjuk, Matvienkov, Stratovic and others, as well as experts, is in the field of tax and financial law, the Kharkiv Law Academy of the name Jaroslav Wise. Similarly, more than 50 public discussions have taken place throughout Ukraine and have received both critical comments and suggestions for improving the various chapters of this document. The first thing that we've been paying attention to is a simplified system of taxation. Because today we realize that systemic changes in economic development are still linked to an increase in the share of the economy of small, medium-sized businesses. And we've taken into account the interests of small, medium-sized businesses in our code, fixed a simplified tax system, proposed in the form of a law. But we've substantially upgraded it, especially for those who work on a single tax, we're proposing to increase the revenue cap to one million dollars, settle the issue of pension contributions, they'll be included in the amount of one tax, and eliminate tax minimization schemes by the owners of a large business at the expense of a simplified tax system. We also propose to resolve the issues related to taxation of imports and the income of “comforts” in case of excess of the marginal volume of proceeds. Well, in addition, we're greatly simplifying the reporting system for all taxpayers and we're aiming to bring the tax and accounting types closer together. Yet, the tax reform at the added cost was another important subject of reform. You know that this tax came into existence in 1947 in France, and its purpose was to stimulate exports. Today's conditions dictate, in principle, another tax administration system. You know, in the Russian Federation two months ago, there were major changes: they're now returning not 60 days of VAT, but in two weeks, and not checks, but just chamber checks, that's documentary checks. So they're fighting for their exporter, for their markets, and they're giving some preferences, including leaving the circulation costs to entrepreneurs. We suggest introducing a unilateral VAT that will only be taxed end-consuming, which will allow the elimination of all fraud schemes around VAT and does not provide for any change for the end-consumer. In addition, we suggest that the tax rate be reduced from 20 percent to 15 percent. And the updated VAT provides for exemption from the taxation of investments in core funds. Tax breaks, tax credits and VAT damages. The other one. The third and most important issue that we have tried to address in our approach to tax reform is, however, the reform of corporate income tax. We've changed the depreciation rates first, we've increased them, and we've reduced the tax rate by 20 percent. Up to 20 percent, from 25 percent to 20 percent. And it also allowed us to move a little bit towards European accounting, and this will, in principle, enable us to develop faster into enterprises, using these loans that create the conditions for the benefits that enterprises receive in terms of income tax reform. We paid attention, however, to local self - government, understanding that unless, let's say, not only the responsibilities, but also the material resources to carry out our responsibilities in local self - government, we will leave the communities in the state that they exist today. And so in order to develop local self-government, we first proposed the introduction of a real estate tax and a reform of local taxes. The Tax Code project has several features, first of all the introduction of an investment benefit from income tax, I've already talked about it. Those companies that invest in crises, upgrade their core funds, receive half the income tax. The draft Tax Code provides for a reduction in the value added tax and income tax per year for five years because it was very difficult to find compensations for the income part of the budget, but we found them in the redistribution of, say, tax pressure to different sectors of the economy. We propose an increase in the tax credit for the income of individuals, for housing, for treatment and for education. Now it's very difficult to get compensation from the income tax on natural persons and it's not actually possible, so we're going to simplify the same procedure a lot. We suggest the introduction of an environmental tax, it will be included in local budgets to compensate for environmental damage. We're here for the extension of the fixed agricultural tax. The introduction of a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities at the level of law Dear National Deputies! We can talk about this bill for a long time, but I would like to say what's going on today around, in general, tax reform. This bill has been given to us for five years, and he has actually had social discussions and criticism from the government, the previous government, which has also been critical of tax reform. But we all understand that the crisis has not been reversed, and only a change in the tax system will give us additional incentives for business development. All the other tools are external tools or printing Nitzbank's money, or getting loans from the IMF. We still have to get our own internal resources and reserves, and that reserve could be the activity of entrepreneurship. The government is now drafting its own bill. As soon as the presidential elections were over, I asked the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine to consider the proposal for the adoption of this document, which had already been processed, in the first reading, and then with Minfin, in tax, with the public, with entrepreneurs to work on it for the second reading. And we'd already get the document for today in a balanced way. What Minfin is doing today is clear that they cannot today ignore the suggestions they already have. But what entrepreneurship now doesn't know about those proposals is, I think, a problem and it won't allow a balanced reform that will produce a positive social product. Moreover, the government insists that taxpayers have the right to carry out checks on compliance with legislation regarding the work of operators irrespective of the form of ownership. Opposition against. President against. The government is proposing to increase the checking period by 10 days to one month, the opposition against, in this document, President Viktor Yanukovic, against. The government suggests that the tax authority should have the right to carry out an extracurricular examination without prior notice of the payer in cases provided for by law had been for 10 days before. Opposition against. President against. The government suggests that in 2010, 20 percent of the value of the tax revenue tax that was generated on January 1, 2010 will be included in the gross cost of the taxpayer. Opposition against. President against. And the president is proposing Bill 6517, where it is actually in conflict with those novels that will now be proposed in the new Tax Code, as they call it, government. So I would like to say that, of course, on political grounds, we can approach this very important document and tax reform, but I'm sure that common sense has to win. Because it's not really a Catherinechuck document, it's an entrepreneur's document. It's for entrepreneurs and it's designed for entrepreneurs. And what's being created by officials today is going to be left for officials -- a pseudo-reform that won't have an economic effect. Therefore, distinguished national MPs! I would ask, regardless of what there are already certain guidelines, that what will be further introduced tax reforms will go completely without our attention and criticism, it will be accepted, and then we will fight what will be done in the area of taxation and the very business environment. And we're going to make changes. Now, in the code that was adopted in haste in Kazakhstan, it is the best, I think, that more than a hundred changes have already been made just last year. So I'd like our document to look more positive and give a signal to entrepreneurs and to the economy as a whole that we're fighting for an investor, that we're fighting for changing the rules of the game. And our task is to build an entrepreneurial climate that is still competitive on our borders. Thank you for your attention. And I am counting on your mind and your political will to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u68	Thank you, Mikola Dmitrovich. Is there a need to ask questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u69	Please sign up. Yes, please, Bondarenko Volodymyr - 10 minutes show, Shamanov next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u70	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block, Reform and Order Party. Mr. Mikolo, please tell me that in recent years there has been a clear trend towards reducing the amount of the consolidated budget that is distributed locally, and all of this is concentrated in Kiev. And this ratio has already reached previously unheard of things like, roughly, there, 70 percent in the center somewhere and 30 percent in the bottom. How does the Budget Code provide for this section of the local budgets and the central budget, for whose benefit, and what proportions are envisaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u71	The ratio of 60 to 40, 40 — local budgets and fragmentation take place in places, not through the center, but only in places.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u72	Please, Shamanov, prepare Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u73	I beg you to pass the word to the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u74	It's a royal microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u75	Dear Nikolai Dmitryevich, thank you for such a serious document, which has been discussed on a large scale in all business circles, in all sectors of the public. Because we understand very well that the country that today contains a huge number of tax laws and only one value added tax law contains 1200 amendments and is more regulated today by regulations than the right and ability of entrepreneurs to legally recover value added tax. And we all know that today, the value added tax debt exceeds 30 billion grevens, a critical figure that has never been owed to entrepreneurs in all years of independence. Tell us how you feel that the next Tax Code prepared by the Government is prepared by officials rather than by entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Natalia, for asking. First of all, I would like to say that Mrs. Royal took the very active part in drafting this code and discussing its separate chapters with entrepreneurs. So what I understand today is that the entrepreneurs of VAT, this is the main evil in their activities, especially the exporters, and I think it's absolutely real. Because what's actually coming, the income part of the budget in the existing administration of this tax, is a little bit of what we could collect if we went to the form that Sergey Teryochin proposed at one of the conferences that was used in our version of the Tax Code is a unilateral VAT. What's more, there's been an experiment on electronic goods in Austria, and most likely, the European Union, I think from the next budget period, the VAT will be applied bilaterally. Because the administration of VAT in an existing situation is in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u77	Please, Pavlovsky. Get ready for Seminosi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Mikola, please tell me how your Tax Code addresses the issue of a simplified tax procedure, a single tax, because these entrepreneurs are now afraid of the kind of reforms that might make their conditions worse. How do you see how you solve the question of restoring social justice in our society, introducing taxes on luxury items, introducing a progressive scale of taxation other than that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u79	I won't answer in a minute. In principle, I've already said that the priority of this document is to support small, medium-sized businesses. And so we approached the simplified tax system very carefully, and we worked this section with entrepreneurs, with Mrs. Lapina, including. And we're proposing to increase the yield limit to 1 million dollars. Dealed with the issue of pension contributions. And in principle, they didn't spend any of that kind of money in order to keep people who create their own jobs and fight for survival out of these difficult conditions of crisis economically. It's about social justice. You know, we were more concerned about paying the bills by the companies they were using. Because today what is paid for the use of natural fossils in Ukraine, or the use of nadr, is a mesire. But what they use, they sell on the London Stock Exchange, and they get profits. So we offered a redistribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u80	Please, Seminoga, Chechetov. Chechnya get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u81	Anatoly Seminoga, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Mikola Dmitrovich, I would like to thank you first of all to you and to those national MPs who have taken an active part in creating this document, because this is, indeed, a serious step forward that will enable us to stimulate small and medium-sized businesses. But I'll ask you. Tell me, please, what is the relation in this document to what is called free economic zones, because in our country a lot of this talk has been said that these are, in fact, holes in the budget, that it is an opportunity to upload huge resources outside our country. What can you see as to the solution to this problem in your Codex Budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u82	Thank you for your appreciation. Of course, no TPR, no free economic zones, that's the principle of position. I know that in the government version, they prepare under different, say, formulations of such zones. This destroys the development of the company’s competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u83	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov. After him, Jojik Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u84	Dear Nikolai Dmitryevich, of course, has done a great deal of work, and I respect you both as a politician and as a tax specialist, because you were at some point a leader of the tax administration. But I have such a specific question. Yushchenko and Timoshenko have reigned in the country for the past two years. And why was it not voted when the majority of Parliament seemed to be on the rostrum? In my opinion, there are two reasons: either the real majority did not appreciate the depth of this, or the majority did not. Is that what you think was the main reason, or was not the majority of the two years, virtually gone, or is the content of the document not allowing the majority of Yushchenko and Timoshenko to accept it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I will answer you honestly, but then you will answer me honestly why you will fail this Tax Code today. I'll give you an honest answer. There was actually no political will, because there was an economic growth, and for most of those who were sitting in the offices, entrepreneurs -- it was just an electorate that was used in the elections, and then they forgot about it. I was able to do it with the administration when I was in charge of the tax police, the administration of the tax. We stopped the mask show. We called off the mandatory criminal plan for entrepreneurs. Much has been done, but not enough has been done. I needed this document. Unfortunately, neither Yushchenko nor others counted tax reform as possible because there was no point, the economy grew and everything was fine. Now, I think what we're looking at in the government, and here we're looking at in the Supreme Council, speaks only of one thing that we need today as an instrument of anti-crisis policy in our country. So I think the Tax Code will be adopted this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u86	Jaroslav Jojik, behind Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u87	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Mikola Dmitrovic, the Ukrainian People's Party, is always considering all the bills that are passed by the Supreme Council, primarily because of the extent to which their adoption will contribute to the development of the national producer, the support of small and medium-sized businesses, the agricultural sector of the economy. At the same time, it is widely known that in Ukraine, taxes are primarily discussed. At the same time, taxes should have a stimulating and regulatory function. Would you say that your bill provides for this purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u88	We need to give the Ukrainian National Party the proper position that they are consistently taking the position of the development of the national producer, the national producer. So we're actually in every tax administration standard that exists, we've still set up incentive functions, because we understand that there's a limit to the use of monetary policy to get out of the crisis, and now it's time to combine with fiscal policy. But it's not fiscal, and it's not fiscal, and it's not fiscal, and it's the way it's going to take the last money out of entrepreneurs, it's the creation of a civilized investment climate that's going to enable both the national investor and the European investor to come to our markets and offer new technologies and create new jobs. Without investment, we can't get out of the crisis. And that's what everyone understands, so the incentives there are, they're not really new, we've looked at it in different national tax systems, and that's why we're offering better experience to Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u89	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u90	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mikola Dmitrovic, I've been waiting for this codex to be introduced, and now they're asking respectable colleagues from the regions -- why? Because, Your Honor, you didn't want to. Nobody. Over the past five years, which since I started doing this code, they just didn't want to. [[It's been since 1996.]] And your governments didn't want to, not just your previous governments. And I have a question for you, Mikola Dmitrovitch. I'm changing up. I suggest you make changes to 38 laws, that's a priority, once. Second, we're doing everything transparent. Tell me, please, how do you see the tax code against the shadow economy? First. And the second. How do you see the output and the value added tax, and what is being done in Ukraine today is a conversion center that goes under one roof? We're not going to tell whose son or daughter is in charge there right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u91	Well, I can say that in our code of amnesty capitals, in government, it won't show up, I'm sure, and that won't give you the opportunity to talk about expanding the tax base. As for the practice of applying any tax legislation, you know that now we have a contractual relationship between entrepreneurs and taxpayers, that is, there is no law at all, so I think we still need to restore the balance of responsibility between entrepreneurs that match their assets, they take risks because they can be brought to criminal liability, they can be deprived of their will, and the taxpayer does not risk anything when he writes off the unreasonableness of the matter or goes to ground check. So, first of all, all the tests are just. non-planned checks only on the basis of the court's decision and introduce a civil liability for taxpayers who were hoping to harm their businesses. This will balance responsibility and the taxpayer will think 10 times about whether he needs to be fined or not to lose in court and match his possessions, apartments, cars, houses, everything he has. So I think this balance of responsibility is going to give us the opportunity and the hope that we're going to have civilizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u92	Thank you, Mikola Dmitrovitch, sit down, please. The committee is headed by the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u93	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax, Customs and Meeting Policy, with emphasis on October 8, 2009, reviewed the draft Tax Code submitted by the People’s Deputies: Catherine, Carmazin, Leipzig, Royal, Matthew, Tarasyuk, Martinenko, in exchange for registration number 2215. The draft Tax Code provides for the systematization and generalisation of legislation governing taxation relations, the codification and simplification of tax laws, the adaptation of Ukraine's fiscal legislation to the principles of European Union directives, the World Trade Organization treaties and the provisions of the European Union Customs Code, among other things, our commitment under the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with the EU. Project Co. The draft Code sets out in detail the arrangements for the administration of taxes in the part relating to tax reporting, determination, harmonization, performance of tax obligations, rights and obligations of supervisory authorities, tax checks and liability for tax offences. You can find a more detailed analysis. the committee in the documents given. As a result of the review of the draft Tax Code, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and develop it into a second reading. This is again the decision that was made in October of last year. And now let me say a few words from myself, as a person who has been engaged in tax policy for many years, is the author of many tax laws. The general difference between the tax code that we are considering today and that version of the Tax Code that is currently being developed in the government that I saw on Friday last week, because, as I have been shown, something has changed again on Saturday and Sunday, is that the conceptual difference is that the draft of this Tax Code is aimed at establishing fiscal uniformity and increasing the employability of Ukrainian people. The draft Tax Code, which will be distributed to us on Thursday, is usually geared towards supporting large enterprises and creating a country where most people are not self-employed but are hired workers. I mean, it's so world-viewed. The worldwide difference between the approach of this codex and what we will consider. There are other differences that I don't think are in favor of the government code. Well, first of all, in the government code, the tax system for the added value is only slightly being repaired, let's say, and the fiscal functions of the tax inspection, the tax police, are increasing. This code proposes a single-channel VAT, which does not provide for either budgetary compensation or import taxes, primarily for investment products. The draft of this Tax Code translates corporate income tax into the rules of international accounting, while the government's project, which will be given to you on Thursday, is based on a strange mix between international bookkeeping standards, national bookkeeping standards and some tax rules, which, well, only confuses, let's say, tax and accounting legislation. There are positive results in the proposed tax amnesty and post-tax amnesty, indirect taxation. Unfortunately, in an alternative project that we will consider only indirect methods are introduced, no amnesty is proposed. So, frankly, I'm a respected colleague, and I realize that all that's going on right now is kind of a farce. Since this codex needs to be put down now in order to register the government code on Thursday or today, it must be voted on Thursday. And, as Mr. President has said, July 9th should be accepted as a whole. I remind you that the Russian Federation has adopted a code for three years, head by head, on each chapter separately. Kazakhstan, which was the first SND to adopt the Tax Code four years per head, is suggested to do so in two weeks, where, if you look at the explanatory documents to the government tax code, there was, you know, a public discussion with the public? In one day. One day there was a public discussion of a 700 - page document that affected all the people and companies in that country. So as head of the committee, I would like to remind you that after the registration of the alternative code, under the 14-day regulation, there are alternative documents to be submitted, and then we have to determine the general procedure of the codes, after a reduced procedure, not to be considered as far as you know. And so it's more likely not to make people laugh, like we did with the bill that we recently passed, 6337, remember? Which seemed completely inhospitable, after which the government had already introduced through the National MPs a bill of rights to this project, which we had just accepted, because nothing was working there. So let's not take this very seriously about the drafting of the Tax Code, because it's not a form that's important to the bill, it's its content. Thank you for your attention if there are any questions I will try to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a question to the chairman of the committee. Names of the national MPs, please. National MP Pavlovsky, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u95	Mr. Sergey! So it turns out that the government's alternative draft to the Catherenchuca Tax Code and as far as you've said there's a press response, it's the whole burden of tax pressure to solve problems that translates into small and small businesses, to which the tax burden is essentially going to increase. At the same time, for large capital, as people call it, oligarchic, they do for their preference for some enterprises, they re-emerge zones of so-called tax taxation, other things. So maybe we really have to solve the problem conceptually. Whoever pays for the reforms is the main population mass, the unprotected population or the large capital will finally start to return revenue from off-shore zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u96	Frankly, there was an answer to your question. Because once again, the concept of the world view is different. In this code, it's an even distribution of the fiscal burden on all subjects, on all payers, with preferences for self-employed people who are better at finding a job than going to the center of employment and getting money from the budget, right? In that code that we will consider, I advise you to look at in the government code the section “Business Income Taxation”. So I can definitely tell you that big businesses aren't going to pay anything there. Another example, the coalition recently made a decision to change dividend taxation, you remember. So they shut down the whole situation when there's Cyprus, where there's a parent company in Ukraine, and there's an offshore somewhere. And now no tax is paid when you put dividends somewhere on the offshore, and no tax is paid when they come back under investment. This is just a coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u97	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u98	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear Sergey Anatolyovich, I am impressed by your assessment as an economics expert and generally, especially in tax matters, about the huge conceptual difference between these two Tax Codes. In particular, one can be referred to as the one proposed by the government after this farce as the clan-oligaric Tax Code, and the other as aimed at protecting small and medium-sized businesses, developing the middle class. And I thought it was a huge difference in the world's vision between what the future of Ukraine would be. It is through the Tax Code that the future of Ukraine is shaped both in terms of economics and social relations, social class, and democracy. Because this middle-class code develops an independent, conscious person who can resist the actions of power, another -- when there's the efforts of an oligarch's capital hired worker -- is a free man, it's a man without principles, it's a man.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u99	Thank you very much. Indeed, on this illustration and on the example of the Codex Budget. Because these two codes are kind of the economic constitution of the ruling elite. And it builds an understanding, an ideological understanding of who's in power right now? And so you're absolutely right, I just want to remind you that there's no point now in adopting the Tax Code before the Budget Code has been amended. Since we do not know, Mr. Catherinechuk said: 60 over 40 is good. Maybe that's the way it's supposed to be. But then you have to look at the competences that budget expenditures have to pass on and what the territorial community should do. Without that tax, it just doesn't make sense. And that's why. It's code eight, which is code eight in my hands. And why? Because everyone was always chasing the form, they called the codex beautiful. But that no one was looking inside. So I do, I realize that's impossible in terms of the political agenda today. But I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u100	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u101	If only the ideologies of this document were taken as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u102	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u103	Vladimir Bondarenko, House of Yulia Timoshenko, Party of Reform and Order. Mr. Sergio, I learned from the press that this code was approved in the government without giving documents to government officials. So the ministers didn't see what they were saying. I'm just jealous of you today because you obviously saw this document, and no one saw it in the hall again. So it's very hard to compare, but from what you've said quite clearly, there are two completely opposite trends, they're going to be in this power, Cyprus and all that. So I'd like to draw the attention of everyone who listens and sees us, small entrepreneurs, medium-sized businesses, we can get a document today by the votes of the coalition that will just destroy your work, your earnings, your business. So you can look at all of this, but it's time to give a voice, and I'm using the Supreme Council microphone to get small entrepreneurs: you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u104	Dear Mr. Volodymyr, I want to disappoint you, because I didn't see the final version of the Tax Code either, it was virtually accepted by the government about 10 days ago and really, no one saw it from the ministers, probably except one, the minister of finance. But after that, he was still working on it this Sunday. And there is a representative, a minister of finance and a deputy minister of finance, who said to me 10 minutes ago: “I already have a new Tax Code, I can give it to you and I can accept it quickly in two days.” So, frankly, for the sake of clarity of the idea, I suggested to the Conciliation Council as a member of the opposition, and let's accept this Tax Code in the first reading and in general. That's what they are, without the rights they want, let people look at how that is the ideology of this power in relation to the very busy persons and hired workers. Well, imagine what you can do with almost 800 pages in two weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u105	Yes, thank you, time's up. Dear colleagues, the offer to do so. Now, make a record of the factions, then directly the people's deputies, and then, after the break, have a fruitful, effective discussion of this issue. Is there no objection? So I'm announcing a statement from the factions. Yes, please give me the names of the national deputies. Now it's from the National Deputies. Please give me the complete list. Yes, so the honourable colleagues were enrolled by 14 national deputies. We'll continue to discuss the bill after the break. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the draft Ukrainian Tax Code. The discussion is now 30 minutes. Sergey Sobolev, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u107	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I would like to stop at the key points that will be considered in any way and in the Tax Code that Mr. Catherinechuk has introduced, and those that will undoubtedly be discussed when, at the end of this session hall sees what the government has adopted 10 days ago, and what neither government officials nor deputies have seen, and no one in the country can see, is the so-called Tax Code from the government of Azarov. I think it would be much better to look at these two documents together as alternatives, we could discuss them and compare them. But unfortunately, I understand the tactics of today's majority -- the failure of the Tax Code, introduced by Catherinechuk and a group of national deputies -- to review the Tax Code in an unalterable manner, which is not being developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Azarov. But what is the key to the Tax Code? No doubt we should consider the document, the Tax Code and the Budget Code, in fact, in parallel. Because at this point, we're fixing for the first time in the history of Ukraine, when taxes that are collected at the center are 76 percent, 24 percent remain in places where local budgets are formed. Here is the ratio of the new power, which calls itself “regions”, “Party of Regions”, that is what they give to regions. The second moment is equally important. Who will charge the tax base? Undoubtedly, it is crucial to whom it will be filled, at the expense of small and medium-sized businesses. This distinguishes substantially from the Tax Code as an alternative, Catherinechuca. But unfortunately, we don't have the ability to compare it. Because when we're told that for small and medium-sized businesses, a "green street" will be created, due to reduced general taxes and congregations. I would like to remind you that for today, 500,000 turnovers for individuals and a million dollars for legal persons. In the new Tax Code, which is introduced by the government, 300,000. So is it an improvement or a deterioration in the conditions for small business, which now accounts for 3.5 million workers? A third question without which we will not answer the key question. We continue to leave legitimate tax-free schemes, such as the Cyprus semi- offshore zone, where tens of billions of dollars are being settled, which are being exported legally from Ukraine and then imported as investments. And the last very important moment. There has just been a competition for the sale of Lugano's Heat. Do you know what the price of selling is? 410 million dollars. There was no competition. Here's another tax that's supposed to be on the budget. What we got out of this is a bubble hole again. That's why we're here to consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u108	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u109	These two alternative tax documents together so that we can compare them and adopt a decision by Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, once again I bring to your knowledge that at the same time we cannot consider two bills, we cannot register a government bill, we cannot, unfortunately. You can read the Rules. Too bad. I ask you to calm down and wave less with your hands. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. And then get ready for Kseniya Liapinius, who will have the right to speak for six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u111	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Over the past 10 years, we have changed 3 Presidents, 5 Prime Ministers, 5 Governments, and every President, every Government, every Prime Minister, every Finance Minister has started singing the same song since January: "This year we will adopt the Tax Code, and this Tax Code we will base the budget on next year. The song began every year the same year, but the album was not finished until the end. This is the first time we have come to the real adoption of the Tax Code and the budget, which will be adopted and will be the basis of the budget for next year. There's a question. I am deeply respectful of Nikolai Dmitryevich and, indeed, a serious document has been prepared, but I have asked the question and now I want to ask: Why did it happen that for two years, when two great macroeconomics led the country, Yushchenko and Timoshenko, why this code did not lie? This way to the rostrum. Why hasn't he been considered? Why didn't they vote him? Because at each corner, they told us how powerful the coalition is, how many people we have, and so on. Then the question arises, is there something wrong in the code, and then the coalition was afraid to take responsibility for an imperfect product, or did there not exist a coalition as such? I don't want to cast a shadow on those people and Nikolai Dmitryevich, and I treat him with deep respect as a specialist there. a completely flawed document. Yeah, I can see that. There are certain nuances, and really, so to speak, you have to refine it, although there's a lot of good. But the main thing is that there was no coalition as such! There was no political will, it was a chat, for 10 more years they would say on January 1st that we are New Year's. The new budget will be adopted on a new tax basis. Ten more Governments would have changed until the normal, real people's power came. Now, how about next? If you compare the document that they criticise without reading, government, it is more systematic, more fundamental, more powerful, but it also has shortcomings. And in it. It is unfortunate that we cannot look at two technologically together, so the proposal will be as follows: we will introduce a government document, we will adopt a first reading, and then we will take a very useful one from Nikolai Dmitryevich's document, very useful in finalizing the second reading, and we will come up with the document that the country needs today and is adequate to our economic realities and allows the economy to develop perspectives.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u112	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u113	I therefore propose to reject this document, but then, when considering a few days of the Government's bill, it is imperative that many provisions of this document be taken into account after the first reading of the government document, so that we can proceed to a well-balanced Tax Code on the basis of which the 2011 budget will be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u114	Xenia Leapina, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Two deputies were given the right to speak, so six minutes — Parubia and Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u115	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” I want to start with what my respectable colleague finished. We have political discussions that replace content. It would seem that it would be better to avoid the group of authors, and I have the honour to belong to this group of authors, the bill as a basis, and then, accordingly, to change, to adjust, in accordance with the discussion that would be in the room? No, this option is not being considered today. Obviously, here we report to the rostrum, we're trying to protect the position proposed by the group of authors led by the Catherinechuk Tax Code, and, in fact, more to talk about. Because the coalition already has a prior view of this issue and does not even want to consider in substance, but it would be worth it. Unlike respected coalition colleagues who had not yet read the Codex Government, I had the opportunity to get a little familiar with this document. And what I'm saying is that his comparison with the document that we're currently considering, which you're so keen to reject, is not in favour of the government code. Why? The first thing that we have proposed in our tax administration project is much more consistent with European tax administration practices, and the approaches that can be said to improve the business climate. Because tax administration, honourable colleagues, maybe you forgot, I want to remind you, Ukraine is in the last city in the world with tax administration complexity. We've gone to the limit, we've got nowhere to go, we've got to be transparent and simplified. That's exactly what we've been trying to do in our tax administration approaches. It's not in the government code. The government code has a reverse approach, it's written under the bureaucrat that won. The government's proposal is, in fact, the functions of the knowledge authority to give tax inspection. The government version of the code proposes that the tax inspector, not with the original documents, should be able to conduct a physical survey. For example, he comes to the company, asks the electrician, the middle-level manager, and there's a security guard there who says, "Do you know the owner?" And they say, "You don't know him." Well, that's what happened: the owner is the owner, the electric motor is the electric motor. Hence, they conclude: A fictitious enterprise not known to the owner. Do you understand what the problem is? It would be funny, but these are facts that are already happening today. Such facts take place, for example, in the Luhansk region, when an enterprise is suspended on a court case because someone simply wants to take it away. In what way? That's the way it's supposed to be. On what grounds? And they asked two or three workers, and they said something unknown. Do we not understand what kind of gap might be triggered by similar actions? Little has been shown to our government by such police actions, they have further strengthened this standard, and they are proposing not only to question the individual but also to call him in for tax inspection. This kind of "tax charge to the police." Well, imagine the condition of the individual who is hired, who is suddenly called into the tax box to give information about his business! It's just scaring the whole country. Why is this being done? Has this ever improved the business climate in some country? Never. Then what we see. You know what is most disturbing about small business entrepreneurs today, which is not much less than two million entities that use either a simplified tax system or a fixed tax system. More than anything, they are concerned that these standards are preserved in the next tax money. And a group of authors working on our Tax Code held a series of consultations directly with representatives of the Associations of the Smallest Business, with representatives of the trade unions of those working in the markets, with representatives of associations, there, hairdressers, other entities involved in consumer services, and so on, that is, consulted with those who, in fact, pay taxes in this country, live and work, create jobs. And we've proposed an option to reform a simplified tax system that's more or less consistent with the different expectations of these types of small businesses. In fact, we have proposed to keep a fixed tax with those very simplified administrations and accounts that are today. And we've proposed this form, but in the government code everything's quite the other way around, it's destroyed, in fact, a fixed tax, the only tax left, but it's estimated at about 40 percent, but that would be half. The whole question of social taxes is outside the Tax Code, and this is double-thirty. The market collection is being cancelled by market tax, and that's twice or three times the workload, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u116	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u117	One more phrase. We get a situation where big businesses are given preferences, for example in special economic zones, and small businesses are going to collect three, four, five times more, the poorer they're going to pay. Is this ideology needed by the country? We suggest that you seriously consider taking our codex as a basis. This will be a much better signal to the country than to reject it and to base it on government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u118	Thank you. Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next one will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u119	Dear friends, is it worth accepting the Catherenchuk Bill as a basis? Obviously, it's worth it. Will it be accepted? Obviously not. Because the coalition majority doesn't want the Katerenczuk bill, she wants the Yanukovic bill. And that's not just going to happen with this bill, with everyone else. But at least there is an opportunity to consider this bill and talk about it, make some comparisons. Unfortunately, this is not always the case, since the budget committee is now meeting, and it has not yet begun, as the opposition proposes in parallel with the Budget Code, which the government has introduced, to consider an alternative budget code. Thus, the majority do not want to include it, and they are still unable to agree for half an hour. So it's still a miracle that we're looking at the Katerenczuk bill, but it's not because the authorities treat it better than other deputies and opposition, but because we've already considered it and it's long overdue. Without it, the law of Azarov, Yanukovich, cannot be passed without the passing of the Katerenchuk bill. Now, how important are the requirements of any tax code that is being considered in Ukraine? First, it conforms to European standards, that is, how much it relates to legislation in European countries. This is a very important criterion that will have to be checked for the second reading of each article because we have not yet taken off the the thesis that we are going to integrate into the European Union, at least as associate members. So we just have to do this and it's obvious that the Katherenchuca Bill has much more leverage. And second, the main thing is to be in every tax code or how it corresponds to Ukrainian reality. Here are a few remarks on second reading, and I think that the indirect methods of taxation -- that's not appropriate for Ukraine, and here Mrs. Lapina has stopped this several times. I would also like to emphasize that these indirect indirect methods, they're not for our reality, it's just a way to spread corruption and promote the will of officials. And the real estate tax. And I don't think that's good for Ukraine either, first of all, economic thinking, because now we're talking about what we need to do is re-energize the leading sector of our economy as construction. Any taxes on mobility will inhibit the development of construction, because this tax itself is exactly the existence of it, even if a person does not pay it, but has such a threat that he will ever pay it, it keeps it from improving his living conditions and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u120	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u121	Now that it's not relevant, this second-reading issue would also be worth removing. Thank you for your attention. And once again, I ask you to support the Katerinczuk bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u122	Yuri Carmazin. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next up will be Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u123	Yuri Karmazin The Party of Fatherland Defenders Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies! With regard to the authors of this codex, I refer to those people who have for many years demanded a similar bill for social discussion to analyse those processes. And so, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am very sorry that Ukraine is becoming a country of lost opportunities, and the Supreme Council becomes a Parliament of lost time. So it's going to be pre-planned, despite the content, despite the fact that this project has been redesigned a dozen times, it's been transferred, it's been noted, it's all been taken into account, despite the conclusion of the profile committee, where all the members of all groups of parliamentary factions go, despite this, it's a matter of simply rejecting the road to clear the way. Because in that case, I have a question, obviously people are afraid to live in a country where there's no intelligence, where there's groupism, and there's a narrow corporate approach. Obviously, we live by the principle: friends, everything, enemies, the government tax code. I'm going to propose, let's compete with ideas, let's not compete with money, and not with cards of "carcases" that will vote or reject. So, my dear friends, I would like to point out that this bill provides for amendments to 38 laws -- both the Civil Code and the Master Code, and the Civil Procedure Code, the Administrative Judiciary, and the Forest Code, and the Nadra Code, and the Water Code, and the 28 Codes and the Laws. It's a complex document, it's extremely difficult to make, believe me. And that option, the surrogate one that's not even been handed out to the ministers yet, and you say, we're going to adopt it. But you did not read it for the simple reason that its ministers did not read it, because it does not exist in nature. So what I've read from it doesn't deserve any attention, because this is, once again, a code for capital. And we need to make an incentive code, we need to get the economy out of the shadows, we need to show that this code has to be comprehensive in addressing all taxation issues. We have to go to the world standard, which is, where the tax rate is 30-35 percent of the income we get, which is perceived by society as a fair distribution. In any other case, the economy goes into shadow, what happens now with Cyprus's so-called money and so on when we finance it, not us. So I urge you, vote in the first reading, and then, most of you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u124	Thank you. Jaroslav Jojik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next is Yuri Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u125	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the Ukrainian People's Party has repeatedly claimed that every bill that applies under tax legislation must first be considered how it affects the national producer and the development of small and medium-sized businesses. This approach is particularly important today during a severe economic crisis, when it was only as a result of last year’s activity that 75 billion dollars were lost. Yet, planning a country’s main financial document — a country’s budget, a valid authority — is such that it ignores the current crisis and accepts a budget of 150 billion dollars in 15 minutes with a deficit. Obviously, after adopting such a budget with such a deficit, it's no different than giving unrealistic tax duties to tax administrations, coming to entrepreneurs and turning their hands away from them, there's no other way. Obviously, to cover the same budget deficit, nothing else could be found than the creation of additional tax pressure. This is evidenced by the recently adopted bill, which for a long time, almost a month, at the same time did not acquire legal power. [[6337]] People say about the actions of such authority: “You’ll make fun of people.” Therefore, it is clear that, when documents such as the Tax Code are accepted as contributing to the Ukrainian economy and the entire Ukrainian State, such as the Tax Code, they are not likely to allow for the flaws that have taken place in the adoption of previous bills. Obviously, the Tax Code is subject to public discussion and listening to all the comments of the entrepreneurial community. But at the same time, seeing that the Tax Code of the New Authority was adopted in the Cabinet of Ministers, when no one except the Minister of Finance saw this tax, there is great doubt that this will be done for this new Tax Code. The Ukrainian People’s Party warns against such an approach when adopting such bills. The bill under consideration certainly does not contain such shortcomings. In the previous period, more than.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u126	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u127	During more than a year, this Tax Code was seriously discussed. It does not contain the draconian standards that kill small businesses, nor does it provide benefits for large businesses. Therefore, the Ukrainian People’s Party proposes to support this bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u128	Thank you. Yuri Kostenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Next will be Andrew Pavlovsky instead of Saints.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, the task of any tax reform is to create new incentives for productive activities. That's why tax reform in many countries around the world, for example, in the United States is the 1980s, the so-called regional economy, which is tax reform, has led to a 20-year steady growth in the world's largest economy. In the 1990s, tax reforms took place in post-communist countries such as Poland, the Baltic countries, which also ensured that the economies of these countries were rapidly approaching European standards. A few years ago, tax reform took place in Georgia, and today small businesses in Georgia are growing at an enormous rate. In Ukraine, no tax reform has been declared independent. All of our legislative initiatives actually covered Soviet tax legislation. And that's why in Ukraine today, we have the largest economic tonic, the biggest corruption of state power, which in the craftsmanship of tax legislation, which is actually regulated in manual mode, allows us to take huge bribes. And today in Ukraine, we have one of the smallest budgets in Europe in terms of one person. Compared to 47.5 million people in Ukraine, we have only 37 billion government revenues; in Poland, 38 million is 150 billion dollars of budget income; in Estonia, 18 billion by 1.4 million people; in Austria, 9 million by 120 billion. This is what the Ukrainian economy is in terms of economic activity. Tax policy in Ukraine has always destroyed and destroyed motivation for work. That's why in Ukraine we have a small business, and this is the basis for both job creation, and for the state budget to be filled with revenue, we have only 8 percent. To compare Europe, this is 50-70 percent small and medium-sized enterprises, this is also a job, this is the income of the local and state budgets. So tax reform in Ukraine is not the subject of a political competition that has presented the better Tax Code, or Catherinechuk, or Azarov, is the subject of a strategy for our future existence as a state. This is about whether there will ever be a high-paying job in Ukraine, whether there will be a European budget in Ukraine and then European standards, or whether we will adopt a new law called the Tax Code again and again, which will only destroy motivation for work. The Supreme Council has never faced such a strategic choice as it is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u130	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u131	And so, dear fellows, we are addressing everyone without excluding the political forces, responsible and professional work on tax reform, not populism, which will end in further losses both in government execution and in citizens' pockets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u132	Thank you. Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u133	Dear compatriots, we are now witnessing when, in discussing such a serious issue as the Tax Code, there is actually propaganda, because we need to get it down quickly, without really noticing what is positive in the Catherinechuk Tax Code. At the same time, we are witnessing, not just different approaches to taxation problems, but different world views. If the Catherinchuk Tax Code is mainly aimed at supporting small and medium-sized businesses, as in the European Union countries, where small businesses account for 60 percent of the economy and in the same Japan 80 percent, we are now bound by a government code that will support large capital, its businesses, its businesses, the business that is close to power. It's not surprising, because now we have an economic ratio that 80 percent of our economy actually controls 10 family clans, 15-20 percent is the whole fraction of small and medium-sized business. I think there should be a different ratio in civilized countries. Again, the poor will pay for the rich, and the small business will solve the problems for the big ones. At least turn to what is being suggested by the market community in the government tax code to replace it with a market tax that will be twice what we have now. Same question. millions of people who work on the only tax. One tax. They're very concerned. It's people who don't ask for anything in the state, who provide for themselves, who feed their families. They are now on the verge of survival. If it's increased by 200, they're going to add 230 more, as planned or even more, they're not going to be able to work. Because if their income comes from a small business of several thousand dollars, they pay the tax of half of that amount -- that's not possible for them, they're going to have to fold their entrepreneurial activities. And so I think that a small business needs to learn to protect its interests, to wake up, to see what kind of documents the authorities are preparing. whether they improve or worsen their situation, and themselves actively act, to protect themselves. And what I'm saying is that there's really a novelty as a survey, which is that if you've previously been tax terrorized by a CEO and a head accountant, you're going to be terrorizing ordinary employees with this survey and all that. And I think so. Regarding the criticism of the Katerinczuk Tax Code, it is necessary to finally introduce luxury taxes as they do in 130 countries, but for some reason in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. A summary, Mikola Dmitrovitch, will you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u135	Dear National MPs, well, it's clear that five years of work today went into a twenty-thirty-minute discussion completely off the table, just exchanging emotions, exchanging issues of future tax reform that we would like to see. It seems that we do not all live and work in this country. And I'm sorry to tell you today that, you know, 200 people are so easily rejected there, that they've been hiring 50, 200 dollars, hiring professionals, different audiences, teachers, taxpayers to create a document for which they could develop as entrepreneurs, make more money, create more jobs, and pay more for social benefits. And, well, what can I say? What's wrong is that we don't find a constructive relationship between power and opposition. Because any construct is a quality, it's the quality that is needed today in action, well, any authority in relation to the society they work for, which they respect. So, despite the different grades that were made today, Mr. Chechetov did not answer my question: Why are they failing our version of the Tax Code today? I tried to answer all your questions honestly, both in terms of content and not in terms of content. And I think, no matter what decision you make today, I think we're going to start a tax reform -- that's a good thing, and you're going to take full responsibility, full political responsibility. So you had a chance to share it with the opposition and make the document quality. And so we're going to spend the whole next year processing what you're going to do behind your back in Minfin or in Tax. Thank you for your attention. But I'm still optimistic, I think we're going to fight for the very European approach to doing business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. We would do well to listen to the suggestions made by Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko in his speech. We do not need to compete over who will be liked better, but we need to talk about the fact that this law will touch the interests of every family, every person. And it would be good to move away from emotion, because unfortunately, this project, led by Mikola Catherinechuk, has been put off permanently and has come off the table because, unfortunately, the right part of the room in its own time did not want to vote for it. And now everyone's made clear and starting to tell us what a good law it is. I think now we're going to see how many people are going to vote for this bill. Now, with regard to accusations that no alternative, or government project, is being considered. Once again, I bring to your well-known, distinguished colleagues, it would be much easier now to consider two bills and accept them as a basis, but in accordance with the Rules Act we have no right to do so, because the government bill cannot be registered because all the terms are missed. With regard to the comments that the budget committee does not want to consider an alternative bill, namely, a new edition of the Budget Code. You and I have agreed to report and consider two bills: government and direct from the national MPs. And we don't have to raise the indignation wave there, there's no reason for that. So, your honors, I bring to your knowledge that the committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the draft Ukrainian Tax Code as a basis. [[Registration number 2215]] The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill needs to be finalized. I'll put these proposals to the vote. First proposal, on acceptance as the basis of the draft Ukrainian Tax Code. [[Registration number 2215]] [[13:07:23]] "To" – 164 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u137	The factions? Please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 118, Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense - 48, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 1, non-fractional - 0. For the sake of clarity, I'm betting on a vote, an experiment, I mean, sending Bill 2215 back to read again. Please identify yourself. [[13:08:00]] "To" – 169 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! It is announced in the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. The rapporteur is Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Mikhailo Yuriovich Brodski. And the co-reporter is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kseniya Mikhailn Leapina. Is it possible to consider it in a simplified way, or is it not?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u138	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I think if there's a reduction in the procedure for such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u139	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u140	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u141	Dear colleagues! The Cabinet of Ministers proposes to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u142	I am putting to the vote the motion for consideration of the reduced procedure the bill asks for a vote. [[Registration number 6263]] [[13:09:08]] "To" – 217 Decision taken. Please consider the simplified procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u143	Ukraine's draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is designed to bring the existing legislation of Ukraine into conformity with the requirements of the Ukrainian Civil Code and the Ukrainian National Registration Act. This law has been in force since 2003, unfortunately, other laws have adopted many other rules and we have many differences that do not allow legal and physical persons to register properly. And we have many legal persons and entities today, such as education, culture, unification of nonregistered citizens. If we did an open normal register, as stated under this law, I think it would make it easier to use it, make it more open to society and to entrepreneurs. For this purpose, the bill amends Ukraine’s laws on the integration of citizens, on law enforcement, on the information agency, on emergency services, on preschool education, on financial services and on government regulation of financial services markets, on the integration of joint owners of a multi-family home, which sets out the procedure for including information about legal persons registered by non-State registrants. The adoption of this bill will lead to the elimination of the existing contradictions between the provisions of the Registration Act and some other laws that regulate creation, including the conduct of state registration and the cessation of certain types of legal persons. Appropriately, it will reduce the problem of the registration of the legal persons concerned and the possibility of corruption by creating clear, transparent rules for the registration of legal persons. In view of the fact that there are no registers of certain activities, the raiders are busy. It's an anti-rider law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u144	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u145	The Ukraines were discussed by the committees and the outcome of the discussion, and they decided to support it, bring it up for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and offered to accept it as a basis. Please support the adoption of this bill as a basis. In preparing for the second reading, suggestions and comments will be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u146	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Xenia Mikhailna Lapina, deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u147	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” The Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 12 May 2010 considered the bill. He noted that his aim is to further bring Ukraine's legislative field into line with the National Registration Act, the bill, should be noted, is more technical, but it is useful because it allows for the reduction of contradictions, possible lawsuits, possible misunderstandings. Moreover, in the course of the discussion of the bill, the national MPs noted that there was a need to expand the list of laws that needed to be amended. For example, according to the Scientific and Expert Office, which has been supported by members of our committee, there is a need for further amendments to the Law on Credit Relations, Banking and Banking, Local Self-Government, etc. So there's still a list of laws that we haven't reflected in the single registration standard. The committee therefore proposes that this law be adopted on the basis of a second reading and that it be further developed by expanding the list of laws to which changes are made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions, please have the right to speak, next will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u149	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The purpose of the bill is to establish a single system of state registration of legal persons and to remove the existing ones, in contrast with the provisions of the Law on State Registration and certain other laws that regulate, inter alia, the conduct of State registration and the cessation of certain types of legal persons. The bill is purely technical, here Ksenya Mikhailnna has been absolutely correct in noting, it is essentially technical and aimed at amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in order to bring them into conformity with the Ukrainian Law “On State Registration of Legal and Physical Persons of Entrepreneurs”. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to adopt this bill in the session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u150	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", next will be by Alexander Steshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u151	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national MPs, distinguished officials, unlike your approach today, we are reading your draft laws, and we will support this bill, but not altogether, as you said to support everything. We support the establishment of an electronic state registration procedure for legal persons and business persons, including the submission of requests for information from a single national register of legal persons and individuals, entrepreneurs, electronically. But we are opposed to the changes to the Ukrainian Code of Masters, which is not a document in which you can climb, honor, and make changes every day. The same is true of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which makes it difficult for you to make changes to the Master Code and consider them separately. I also welcome the additions that are being made to people who, because of religious or other beliefs, have given up the identification number and have officially reported it to the relevant authorities of the state, and they are often here also taking care of the Supreme Council and calling us at meetings. It therefore provides that e-documents are then submitted, a copy of the passport page is added to the documents with the corresponding “Document in Electronic Form, which confirms the authority of the person involved in the preparation of electronic documents”. That's what I want to emphasize for those people who are living, and what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, and what to do, and what to do, and what to do, and what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to get everybody, and the chips and so on and so on, and so on, and so on and so on and so on, religiously, they can't do. So I insist that the committee then review and delete the additions to the Code of Masters, and these changes can be accepted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u152	Thank you. Alexander Steshenko, BUTT faction, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You know, I didn't sign up at all and I won't support this bill, although it's much like a bill that was introduced by the government of Yulia Volodymyrna Timoshenko and registered on September 18, 2009, under number 5146. In general, I have the impression that we don't care about how practical workers will use the legislation that we are working on today through daily, weekly mass changes to actual legislation. And it's not much of a technical law, from the point of view of preparing it. I was convinced that he was copying the law, but in fact he had deleted the chapter “On Making Changes to the Law on Museums and Museums”. Xenia Leapina now says that other valid legislative acts need to be amended. It seems to me that we need to move on to the rails of systemic work so that practical users with our legislation can work. So I won't support it, and I urge my fellow thinkers to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Committee opinion: The bill can be accepted as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill should be returned to work. I propose to the committee a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. Please vote [[13:19:35]] "To" – 249 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Standards, Technical Rules and Procedures for Conformity Assessment on the Non-Registration of the Declaration of Conformity is under consideration. [[Registration number 6234]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. I'm putting to the vote a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:20:27]] "To" – 220 Decision taken. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, respected by Vladimir Mihajlovich, we are today considering Bill 6234, which is one of the basic bills in the process of adopting and implementing economic reforms. We talk a lot about the investment climate, we talk a lot about the business environment, about the improvement of the business climate in our country, but unfortunately we are still talking. And the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise is now receiving enormous signals from entrepreneurs from across the country that there are complete checks, that there is total pressure on law enforcement agencies, that there are no reports and statements of entrepreneurs as a result of their activities. And of course, all these negative signals have a disastrous impact on our business climate and, of course, on our investment climate. And you know that since the beginning of the year, more than 30 per cent of foreign investment in Ukraine has dropped in the country is one of the main indicators that shows what kind of business climate and how much investors are willing to invest in the modernization of our country today. We therefore propose today to consider a bill that proposes to cancel the mandatory registration of declarations to producers. Nevertheless, operators today continue to spend too much time and money on registering declarations. The enterprise spends 88 days per year registering a declaration of conformity. And of course, the system of standardization, certification, is the most entrenched in our country. It must be said that European technical regulation legislation has long been out of the scope of registering declarations in public bodies. And according to the directives, a foreign producer today, under his own responsibility, forms a declaration of conformity of products, the requirements of the relevant directives, retains the documents in the package and provides them only if requested by the supervisory authorities. Today's bill proposes to amend article 32 of the existing law and to delete the provision for the mandatory registration of a declaration of conformity in the State party. The implementation of the draft law will provide a sufficiently positive impetus and an enabling environment for production-producing operators and which should be competitive in our internal market. Such enterprises will be able to save tens of millions of bracelets and more than 80 days a year so as not to waste time and money on paper fibers. National technical regulation legislation will also be translated in accordance with WTO requirements and EU legislation. In the view of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, as a result of its consideration of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment,
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u156	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u157	In the view of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the draft law on first reading could be adopted as a basis. Taking into account and focusing on our European business standards, the Committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u158	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Names of the national MPs, please. Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u159	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine”. I want to point out that this bill proposes to do the right thing at last. Because the declaration of conformity, that's why it's called a declaration that doesn't require an additional, arbitrary procedure from the public authority in this case of the State. Obviously, because of the additional, completely artificial procedure that was prescribed in the law before, the gateway was actually made, that is, the declarations appear, and who is already registered, who is not registered, and at what costs they register, it was a separate question. In fact, from the declarative method, we converted it into a permissive or certification method, i.e. confirmation by a third party. So the proposed norm, in my opinion, is: (a) positive for the country's climate; (b) consistent with European legislation; and moving us to the area of free trade with the EU; and this. In fact, this is the fulfillment of our obligations within the World Trade Organization. So all three of the main factors, I think, are being implemented in this bill, and that's why we think we should accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u160	Jaroslav Jojik, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u161	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Considering that the main part of the technical regulations that have been adopted in Ukraine include only the application of the production certification schemes under Module A, potentially dangerous products will be introduced in circulation without any control of both import and domestic production. Customs authorities will allow entry through the customs border of Ukraine of imports from all countries of the world, and not only from Europe, products are made in accordance with EU directives. The unilateral implementation of such a rule of law without the introduction of a state control system in accordance with international requirements will create a disastrous situation for a domestic producer in the context of a global economic crisis due to unfair competition by importers. Therefore, in view of the need to ensure Ukraine’s national interests, there is a need to support a domestic producer in a global crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u162	Please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u163	and the need to protect the lives and health of consumers, we believe that the adoption of this law is premature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u164	Yes, Your Honor, the bill is closed. The Committee's conclusion: to accept as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration: The bill can be adopted as a basis. I propose to the committee a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Standards, Technical Rules and Conformity Assessment Procedures for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[13:28:05]] "To" – 307 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. [[on the implementation of economic activities on the basis of a declaration]] Registration number 6265. The rapporteur is the head of the Royal Natalia Yuriovna Committee. I'm making a proposal to review the bill with a reduced procedure. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[13:28:49]] "To" – 260 Decision taken. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u165	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we are now considering a law that is designed to resolve the principle of declarative principles in our legislative field. As you are aware, the declarative principle is one of the most progressive norms currently in force in the European Union, that when an economic operator is entitled, it can operate without a permit document. It shall inform the administrator or the relevant authorising authority of compliance with its logistic framework with the requirements of the law. Nevertheless, today only some licensing authorities agree to adopt such a declaration principle. Because we all know that the license plate is the biggest food for officials. And our entrepreneurs spend three billion bracelets a year. Think about it: Three billion grevens spend their money just to get permits. The bill therefore confers the right on the Cabinet of Ministers to define a list of economic activities that cannot be carried out on the basis of a declaration. The Cabinet of Ministers is requested to approve, within one month, the form of a communication to the State administrator or the relevant licensing authority on the compliance of the logistic framework with the requirements of the law. If the Cabinet of Ministers does not approve such a form within a month from the date of publication of the law, the enterprise shall be entitled to make a communication in arbitrary form. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the bill could be adopted on first reading and as a basis. I believe that such a bill will allow us not to talk about the declarative principle but, in fact, allow entrepreneurs to take this opportunity today. The Committee proposes that it be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. The name of the people's deputies is on the information board. Xenia Leapina, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u167	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” I want to draw attention to the fact that this bill actually concludes, at last, a reform that makes it possible to initiate entrepreneurial activities by a declaration principle. Because in the previous bill, when we changed a number of laws in Ukraine, in one city we wrote that the declaration principle was introduced by the decision of Kabmina, and in another place the same law left the rule that it was implemented exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. Unfortunately, it's just, well, for me, it's kind of a symbol of the negligence of our joint parliamentary work with you when we're in a hurry to do something without working on it on an expert level. In this case, the bill proposed to us corrects this mistake. However, there is a question and it is necessary for this bill to be edited before the second reading, because the proposed rule that all kinds of activities can be initiated by a declaratory principle, but the list of those who can't, is determined by the Cabinet to lead to a legal contradiction: either they can or they can't all. So we need to be clear in the wording immediately so that we don't have to vote again after six months. So we suggest that we adopt this law on a basis and redefinition it to the second reading so that we finally get a fully harmonised system of initiating entrepreneurial activity on a declarative basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Who else insists on the performance? I can't see. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration are similar, i.e. they recommend the adoption of this bill as a basis. I propose to the committee a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. [[on the implementation of economic activities on the basis of a declaration]] [[Registration number 6265]] Please vote. [[13:33:55]] "To" – 339 Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity is being announced for consideration. [[on the activities of tissue banks and human cells]] The reporter is Ukrainian National Deputy Guyday Yuri Alexanderovich, co-rapporteur, head of the Royal Natalia Jurijovna Committee. Is it possible to do a reduced procedure? The rapporteur suggests that the bill be reviewed in a simplified manner. I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Please vote. [[13:34:37]] "To" – 255 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u169	Thank you. Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Masterful colleagues! With the rapid development of biotechnologies, there has been an increase in the provision of services for the long-term preservation of cordial blood and human placenta for the purpose of further medical use. So there's actually a new kind of economic activity. Unfortunately, however, there is no legal regulation and, as a result, the relevant public authorities have been deprived of adequate control over the activities of the entities providing services for the long-term storage of cordial blood and human placenta, which in turn creates various conflict situations between providers of such services and their recipients. At the same time, the Constitution establishes that the protection of human rights and freedoms is the primary responsibility of the State. Thus, in my opinion, the lack of State control over this type of economic activity is a failure to comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. I believe that these so - called tissue banks and human cells have the right to exist. Moreover, a network of such banks has already been created in the world, but in the absence of clear and clear conditions for their activities in Ukraine, it is not possible to determine the limits of legitimate action. Licensing as a means of State control over economic activity has long justified itself as a mechanism for regulating the state’s most important strategic relations, closely related to the rights and freedoms and legitimate interests of our fellow countrymen. The adoption of our bill will allow the executive authorities to develop immediate and appropriate licensing conditions that will ensure the transparency of the activities of human tissue banks and cells. On the basis of the above, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u170	Please finish. Do you have everyone? Natalia Juryovna, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, Bill 5196 provides for amendments to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain economic activities, namely, to add to the licensed activities related to the production, processing, preservation, storage and extradition of tissue and human cells for use in medical practice. The Committee strongly supports the reduction in the number of activities to be licensed, but this is precisely the case where very many of our citizens can be grateful to the State if it takes such activities seriously. In the view of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the first reading could provide a basis for the project. In the light of the comments and suggestions made and made, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Enterprise proposes to adopt Bill 5196 as a basis and to finalize it for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. So the names of the people's deputies, please take them to the board, Vladimir Karpuk, microphone, and Oleg Zarubinski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u173	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". This bill regulates the state's regulation of such an important direction in the development of biotechnology as cellular tissue therapy, the use of umbilical blood, as well as placenta tissues, the use of these tissues has long become one of the methods of treating extremely severe diseases that are not treated by other methods. And our scientists, Ukrainian scientists, have great experience, and even they are pioneers in certain directions of this tissue therapy. Therefore, these issues are of considerable importance, even in order for the State to regulate them. Because it's the issue and the biosecurity of our country, it's the question of protecting and preserving the gene pool, the question of not spreading infectious diseases, genetic diseases, and so on. It's pretty important, though short, but a big bill, I'm counting, and it could be accepted as a whole. But there is a observation by the Science and Technology Administration, and there is a suggestion that this second-reading bill should be considered in a simplified procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u174	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u175	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, it is such a delicate and delicate law that we must take it very seriously. After all, the issue of accumulation, storage, and all possible procedures related to human beings, including tissues and cells, is a matter of scientific significance. And if that were to be of little scientific significance, obviously we wouldn't be looking at this bill and then we wouldn't have to make it. But it's really a business subject, and we want it, or we don't want it, we can't give it up, because if there's demand, there's a supply. And in such circumstances, really for the state, for the statesmen, there must be a question, and who really should control it, is there an alternative to what Guyday offered? No, there isn't. Could these be private individuals? These could be a number of public organizations -- overseeing such a bank. No! No! This is clearly what government authorities have. And one more moment. It was said by a distinguished colleague that all licenses should be restricted and so on. We have to limit it, but let's be honest, let's say that the worlds in business, in Ukraine are more per capita than any other country in Europe or even Eastern Europe. And that's why such licensing is true, and so licensing should be a barrier, it should be a filter for impure businessmen who really use that demand when a person who wants to survive, even who has an incurable disease, goes for everything, goes for everything, and is willing to listen to everyone. Thus, this legislative position is correct, especially in connection with what Comrade Carpuk said, for there is both infectious safety and even gene pool safety. Since biosecurity is the most pressing issue for Ukraine, it is worth supporting the bill. The block of Lithuania will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u176	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, while supporting the general approach to the ideology of the bill, I would like to pay attention, and our experts are paying attention when we work hard to ensure that we do not forget at the same time to make changes to our basic law in this area of transplantation of human organs and other anatomical materials. It's about putting this kind of activity -- the activity of tissue banks and human cells -- into transplant activities. This is provided for in article 9 of this Law and in article 8. So I would like to make sure that we don't forget on the first and second readings, so that there's clearly no contradiction between the two bills, that we can make changes to the bill, and then in the second reading, we can vote on it as a whole. That's why I'm here to support the first reading, but I'm not going to forget to extend it by making changes to the basic bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The Committee's conclusion: a bill can be adopted as a basis. A similar position is confirmed by the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, and I remind you once again, [[on the activities of tissue banks and human cells]] [[Registration number 5196]] Please vote. [[13:44:00]] "To" – 343 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u179	What, what? Oh. Dear colleagues, it was suggested that the committee should prepare for the second reading of the reduced procedure. It's about the bill. [[Registration number 5196]] I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:44:38]] "To" – 310 Decision taken. So I'm asking the committee to prepare him for the next plenary week, which is June 29th. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. [[on persons held in full national detention]] [[Registration number 3258]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Cibenko, Petr Stepanović. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich. Dear colleagues, in order for us to consider this bill, I am voting on the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:45:39]] "To" – 250 Decision taken. Please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u180	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian veteran organization, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I have initiated amendments to the Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. [[on persons held in full national detention]] The history of the question has been quite a long time, but I will stop only in recent years. In 2005, it was decided to change the conditions for paying pensions to those pensioners who live in boarding homes for senior citizens and disabled persons. Since January 1, 2006, such pensions have been paid in full. However, this decision did not take into account the rules of article 48 of the Ukrainian Law on State Insurance. As a result, only those pensioners who live in boarding-houses for senior citizens and disabled persons are paid in full for special credits to Ukraine. The same pensioners are paid 25 percent of their assigned pension, and the other part of their application is listed as a territorial center and used exclusively to improve the pensioner’s living conditions. The bill proposes that pensioners be given equal opportunities to receive a special pension regardless of where they are in full government detention. In other words, the honourable colleagues, especially those who are concerned about budget issues, I would like to point out that there is no extra cost here, it's only a redistribution of the funds that come to the institution where there is a veteran on full government detention. I mean, I'm proposing, because, on the basis of the Law on Retirement for Special Credits to Ukraine, it's personified for certain human merit before society, and so I propose that this supplement be kept in full by the veteran himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u181	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u182	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich, National Deputy, Head of the Supreme Council Committee for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, Bill 3258 discussed at the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons on December 10, 2008. Unfortunately, he didn’t have a turn, but I want to say what he was talking about and who he was talking about. This bill is extremely relevant in terms of the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory, because it's about people who have merit in our homeland, the people who created this state and the generation that deserves to be supported. The bill provides for the establishment of a single order for the payment of special benefits to pensioners who are in full state detention regardless of the name of the institution and the status of the institution. This is primarily the case with pensioners who live in fixed rooms for permanent residence in the district social services centers. I want to remind you that today, if a pensioner, and in particular a pensioner who has special merit before Ukraine, this pensioner in a nursing home, is paid to this pensioner regardless of what he is in full government detention, 100 percent of the pension is paid for special merit. But if the same pensioner is in a fixed room for a permanent or temporary stay, he is somehow not paid this pension in full. Only 25 percent is paid; another 75 percent is paid to the pensioner. Well, it's paid to a social institution, especially the social welfare department at the place of residence. And it's spent by this social institution exclusively for the pensioner himself. There's a paradox, a variety of social institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u183	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u184	different social institutions for the same person who deserves the Fatherland are treated differently with the payment of pensions for special merit. The committee unanimously supported this bill and proposes to establish a single order, and this is what our veterans are asking us to do. In addition, I would like to say that the Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that this bill may be in force, but I would like to remind the Committee on Budgetary Questions of its proposal that it be adopted on 1 January 2011. The main scientific and expert office also supports the adoption of this bill on the basis. Please be supportive. It is in a year of veterans to support our pensioners who receive a special pension before the Fatherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u185	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? No one insists on the performance? Yes. Please, Pavlovsky. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u186	Dear compatriots, national MPs! The Timoshenko bloc proposes to support Bill 3258 by a colleague of our famous social worker, Deputy Cibenka, because truly well-deserved pensioners who are in full state custody, regardless of the institution, should receive a full pension. I think this is a good start for our colleague to be supported and given to deserving pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u187	Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u188	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. You know, honourable colleagues, if we were to now consider amending the Pensions Act, special merit, I think there might be a discussion here, really, because this is a question for many, for many people: who has special merit, and what do they belong to? Well, frankly, in no country does it make a difference between a minimum pension and pensions that are paid to some of our very well-deserved people who reach 70 to 100,000 bracelets in total and so forth. But since language is just about equalizing the rights of those who already have such pensions and the situation that there should be no differentiation between institutions that have the status of interns for the elderly and others, it is probably worth supporting this legislative proposal. It refers to about 500 persons who are in such institutions, regardless of their status. But I think we're going back to special merit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u189	Carpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u190	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Our faction will also vote in favour of this bill, which introduces a single policy on the payment of pensions for special merit to people who are in full state custody. I also point out to everyone that the bill was registered on 21.10.08. I mean, it's almost 1.5 years now, now it's a year of veterans, and so I'm also going to consider it as a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u191	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. On the one hand, really, it's said to be an extra charge on the budget, but Zarubinsky's colleague and his colleague Cibenko called the figures. I'm sorry, they look ridiculous to the budget. If only 500 people are involved, what could be the serious burden on the state budget? That's even less if you believe these calculations, less than one million dollars to spend. I would ask, let's actively support this proposal and vote in the first reading for this bill. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. [[Registration number 3258]] Please vote. [[13:54:58]] "To" – 342 Will there be any objection to accepting as a law as a whole? You don't? I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine, registration number 3258. [[on persons held in full national detention]] Please vote. [[13:55:40]] "To" – 340 Thank you, the law is passed. I think we've helped these people a little bit. I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. Bill 2334, amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts, Law of Feldman, is being complied with. [[concerning the State registration of commercial concession contracts]] You don't? Then, please, Elena Victor's Shiskin from the committee. I propose a reduced procedure for voting, please support this proposal. [[13:56:27]] "To" – 251 Decision taken. Please, Elena Victorine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u192	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Legal Policy Committee considered a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the State registration of commercial concession contracts, introduced on 7 April 2008. [[Registration number 2334]] The draft law proposes that the national registration of commercial concession contracts should be regulated by legislation and that the State Department of Intellectual Property, which operates within the Ministry of Education and Science, should be registered. The main scientific and expert office does not object to the transfer of the functions of registration of commercial concession contracts from state registrars who register legal persons and natural persons to the central executive authority on matters of legal protection, intellectual property, which is actually the State Department of Intellectual Property. The bill proposes to amend only two articles of the two codes, in particular article 11.18 of the Civil Code and article 367 of the master code of Ukraine, which provides that a contract of commercial concession is subject to State registration by the central authority of the executive body on intellectual property law. Moreover, implementation of the bill will not result in additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine, so the Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill on the basis of the proposals of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration and to finalize it in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u193	Thank you, sit down, please. Shall we vote? I am voting on the adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning the State registration of commercial concession contracts]] Bill number 2334. Please vote. [[13:58:45.]] "To" – 290 Thank you. Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 988 of the Civil Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on insurance obligations]] Bill number 3296, please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[13:59:20]] "To" – 255 Decision taken. Please, the author of the Bill, Andry Volodymyrovich Parubai, prepare for the committee of Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u194	A boy named Andrew. The draft law proposes to amend paragraph 5 of the first part of article 988 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which defines the obligations of insurers to reorganize the insurance contract. Insurance, as a kind of civil legal relationship, is designed to protect the physical and legal interests of individuals. In the event of an emergency, the possibility of such events is due to the existence of an insurance risk of an event that is likely to occur and is linked to property, person or liability. In the event that the insurer, the person who insures his or her property risks, has taken measures to reduce this potential, the insurer has the right to require an insurance company, an organization that provides insurance services and liabilities, to make insurance payments in the event of an insurance accident, to reorganize the insurance contract. Contrary to this logic, article 988 of the Civil Code of Ukraine states that the insurer is obliged to re-establish the insurance agreement in the event that insurance measures that have reduced the risk are carried out by the insurer. The insurance company does not act to reduce the risk. Making changes to this standard will more accurately reflect the relationship between the insurer and the insurer. After all, the insurer can take measures aimed at reducing the insurance risk and the insurer has the right to demand that the insurer make appropriate changes to the insurance contract. These changes are also in line with the Ukrainian Insurance Act, which states in article 20 that measures that have reduced the insurance risk are carried out by the insurer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u195	Please, from the Committee on Agricultural Policy, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch. Legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u196	Agrarian and Legal Policy Committee. The Committee on Legal Policy considered the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 988 of the Ukrainian Civil Code on Insurance Obligations, introduced by national MP Paruba at number 3296. The bill is designed to eliminate conflicts in civil law and legislation on insurance, to define the legal status of the insurer as regards the right to require a change in the insurance contract, the bill provides for amendments to the Civil Code by means of a new regulation defining the legal status of the insurer with regard to the conclusion of the insurance contract. The implementation of the bill will not result in additional costs from the state budget. In view of the foregoing, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted in the first reading on the basis and as a whole. The corresponding draft decision is added.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u197	Thank you. So Zarubinski, please, a minute and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u198	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. You know the legislative initiative of a colleague of Paris understood and the changes to the Civil Code. But experts note that if this legislative change is implemented, there is a discrepancy between the relevant paragraphs and the provisions of the Civil Code and the Insurance Act. And it's obviously going to have to be taken into account, if we're going to take this as a basis, we're going to have to make changes to the Insurance Act. That is why we can agree on that. The only thing I have, Adam Ivanovich, is 30 seconds, and I would like to say that the current insurance business in Ukraine already resembles a gaming business. And maybe we should pay more attention to this topic, because a lot of charlatans who stand on the streets and do so-called insurance have some kind of document, someone lets them, and they don't have any responsibility. And today, the percentage of non-payments for insurance contracts is just huge -- something has to be done more systematically than point changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u199	Thank you. Indeed, there is a point to the central government, but it refers to the need to make changes to another law. So we're already going into a section here with 116 articles. I think either the author or other subjects of the legislative initiative can and should use the recommendation of the Scientific and Experimental Authority to make other laws changes. But this does not prevent us from considering the law now and I would like to vote in favour of Bill 3296 on amending article 988 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on insurance obligations]] Please vote. [[14:04:40]] "To" – 277 Copy that. There was an offer, and I would like to support it, to accept it as a law as a whole. I would like to vote in favour of the adoption of Act No. 3296 amending the Civil Code. Please vote. [[14:05:11]] "To" – 304 Thank you, the law has been passed. And let's consider another law amending article 242 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on representation by law]] 3317 – also Parubia, Knyazevich is reported. I would like to vote in favour of the draft short procedure. [[14:05:45]] "To" – 262 Decision taken. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, get ready for Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill also deals with the clarification and harmonization of the Civil Code. The bill proposes to amend article 242 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. The purpose of the bill is to protect the property rights of young and underage children. The bill is aimed at regulating the relationship between parents and children, eliminating the disagreement between the Ukrainian law on the protection of children, the Family and the Civil Codes of Ukraine. The proposed changes will allow for greater clarity in the area of civil relations, particularly as parents or adoptive parents are legal representatives of their minor and minor children and act on their behalf as guardians and caregivers. The draft law indicates the requirements in which parents are required to adhere to contracts for the alienation of immovable property or other rights as defined in article 71 of the Civil Code. To support the adoption of the bill, it should be noted that articles 71 and 72 of the Ukrainian Civil Code define the rights and responsibilities of guardians and caregivers regarding their guardians. In particular, the law prohibits guardianship without the permission of the guardian and the care of the parent. Or, for example, make contracts for the division or exchange of housing or housing as well as for other valuable property. Articles 71 and 72 of the Civil Code refer only to the rights of guardians and caregivers. In article 242 of the Civil Code, the parents of young and underage children are identified as their legal representatives, that is, in fact, a legal conflict. Since parents, after carrying out any illegal action on the property of their minor or minor child, may appeal to the fact that the rights of the custody and custody authority apply only to guardians and not to parents.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u201	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u202	The project proposes legal identification of parents and guardians in order to strengthen the protection of the property rights of young and underage children. Such changes are in full conformity with the Ukrainian Child Protection Act and article 177 of the Ukrainian Family Code and article 32 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Please support us in our first reading. The committee had an offer to shorten my amendment, which had been extended. And I from the rostrum actually agree with this committee proposal, and maybe if this change is accepted in the hall, we can vote today and in the first reading as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u203	Thank you. Please, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, member of the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u204	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. In fact, I agree with Mr. Andrey Parubi. And in principle, if I had my point of view, I would probably have accepted your proposal to now vote in general. But right now, I have a mission to call out a committee decision that doesn't provide for, unfortunately, a vote in general. The Committee on Legal Policy considered a draft law amending article 242 of the Civil Code. [[on representation by law]] [[tabled by Andrey Parubi]] The bill provides for amendments to Ukraine's Civil Code on Civil and Legal Relations, particularly with regard to the legal representation of parents of their minor and minor children, and acts on their behalf as guardians and caregivers. [[Adoptionists]] The project also offers. points to the requirements that parents are required to comply with when requiring the alienation of immovable property or other rights listed in article 71 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. The adoption of the bill will ensure the elimination of disagreements between the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Childhood, the Family Code and the Civil Code. The implementation of the bill would not result in additional costs from the State budget, but, taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft adopted in the first reading on the basis of the draft, and to entrust the Committee on Legal Policy with its work and second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u205	Thank you. Dear colleagues, shall I vote? I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law amending article 242 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, Bill 3317. [[on representation by law]] Please vote. [[14:10:39]] "To" – 295 Decision taken. Carmazine, and then we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u206	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee and the author themselves have expressed their support for the proposal that you have written from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. They wrote: “Parents or adoptive parents are legal representatives of their minor and minor children who act on their behalf as guardians and caregivers in the established law without special authorization.” It's a quote from a science-expert administration. I'm asking you, let's not take up time with the Supreme Council and take a look at it. It's a question to accept in general and put it at this point. This is absolutely in line with the logic and material part of our Civil Code and the Family Code of Ukraine, and it does not need any further clarification. I propose and ask Chechtov, come on, give your consent and offer your faction. We'll save the time of the Supreme Council, believe me, it'll be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u207	Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u208	Yuri Anatolyevich, I only agree to a recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-15-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, the morning session is closed. At 16 o'clock, let's get back to work.
