ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u1	For – 407. Excuse me. Cards were registered in the 407 deputies’ session hall, more specifically cards. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of Tuesday’s scheduled January 19th. Your point is to propose a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms. Reported by Minister of Agriculture Yuri Fedorovich Melnik. Correspondent head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Perestenko Marina Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms is designed to ensure that valid legal acts are brought into line with and reconciled with genetically modified organisms, which are sources of food, feed additives and veterinary preparations. Today, according to a valid version of the Ukrainian Law on the State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organs, these powers refer to the competence of the central executive authority in the field of agrarian policy. However, according to the Regulations of the Veterinary Medicine Act, such registration is carried out by the State Veterinary Authority, the central authority of the executive branch of the State Committee of Veterinary Medicine of Ukraine. Thus, in order not to distinguish between two interconnected registration processes and, accordingly, control is proposed to redistribute the specified authorizations by supplementing the law with an additional article 11 of the Law. To convince the government of the adoption of the bill, it will improve the effectiveness of the functions of the central executive authorities in dealing with genetically modified organisms and improve the system of government control and supervision of food, feed additives and veterinary preparations that can be produced using genetically modified organisms. Ladies and gentlemen, given the importance of the matter, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u3	Thank you, Yuri Fedorovich. Have a seat, please. Marina Volodymyrable, please, committee decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u4	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 8 September 2009 reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Testing, Transport and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[No. 5029]] The adoption of the draft law will determine the mandate of the Ukrainian State Committee of Veterinary Medicine in the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms. These powers have been given to the Ministry of Agrarian Politics by law. In accordance with the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act and the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation on the Approval of the Regulations on State Registration of Veterinary Medicinal Products, Feed Additives, Premixtures and Prepared Feeds, the State Committee of State Medicine implements. Thus, in order not to distinguish between two interconnected registration processes and, accordingly, control is proposed to redistribute the specified authorizations by supplementing the law with an additional article 11 prima. The project will contribute to a clearer distribution of management functions in this area of social relations. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill as a basis for consideration in the first reading. In view of what has been said, the committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law to be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u5	Thank you, Marina Volodymyrna. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a bill if you wish. It's a recording. Names on the board, please. Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Yavorowski will then speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ribuk, Zitomirsk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Of course, this bill needs to be, because it doesn't actually change anything in the functions of executives, it only takes technological issues, it takes these specializations to the central authority -- the ministries, and it passes it on to those who have to control the implementation of veterinary medicine. But I want to say, in support of this, that it's hard on the soul, my dear colleagues, when we're looking at this issue from the Cabinet of Ministers so narrowly, I'd say, lame and observant. Man is what the ancients said he eats. The vast majority of the Ukrainian people know that they eat today, not even their own fat, but all kinds of junk and genetically modified organisms. The Cabinet of Ministers, giving such a piece from the legislative point of view of the legislative initiative, recently adopted a decree that narrows down the control of the State Consumer by 70 percent and eliminates the certificate of quality of imported products in general. And we're already up to 500,000 tons, I'd say, in Ukraine, of foods that you can't call food. So let's adopt this law, but let's assign the Cabinet of Ministers to give information to the people of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, which is the state of the food quality issues, first of all with genetically modified organisms, to take control of it. We want to scare people that it's so bad, but we need to know, no one knows today, we're just guessing. I'm asking for all the halls and deputies that are and others to be handed over.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u7	Let me finish. Do you have everyone? All of it then. Vladimir Yavorowski. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u8	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kirovogradščina. Dear colleagues, our constituencies, the rapid development of the civilization of new technologies, every time there are huge problems on our heads, and one of them is now modified products that are actually becoming one of the threats to human health on the planet. That's why we want to sort and narrow down this “trump” through which modified products enter Ukraine, I'm sure it's very good. When Minister of Agrarian Politics Yuri Melnik spoke, I thought that the Ministry of Agrarian Politics would go somewhere to do even some possible opposition to the adoption of this law by releasing something of its own and handing it over to the committee. But it turns out that this is where the very normal logic, the normal national policies are working, and I'm just at the end of "The Yulia Timoshenko Block" will definitely support this bill. And to my colleague Ribuku, I just want a little line, not a bad line, by the way. If you weren't a minister of your time and a long time minister, I'd realize it's really you, as it were, who's taking care of it. But when you were, you had to do everything, not throw yourself at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u9	National MP Gordienko, Communist faction. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u10	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I signed up in the "against" section, not because the faction will vote against me against the bill, we will have to support it. But I signed up against it because we have double standards in our country for genetically modified products. Yuri Fedorovich, I'm asking you a question, you're here as a reporter for it, but you have to tell all of the people of Ukraine today why every year we have an increase in the number of soybeans, sunflowers, other agricultural crops themselves in the fields that are actually genetically modified, that's what people are yelling about. This product then falls into food. Most importantly, we don't warn people, there's no labeling that the product being implemented is genetically modified products that are very dangerous, especially in children's foods. And today I'm addressing all my colleagues: let's still support the initiatives of Communist MPs who are now registered in the Supreme Council to declare Ukraine free of genomically modified products, which means to ban sowing, processing, adding and so on. I'm asking you to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, please, one minute. The line is at the end. Oleg Zarubinsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. You know, your honor, what's on my mind? Here is the bill itself, as it reads: “On the state security system in the creation, testing, transport and use of GMOs”. So it's supposed to be a normal phenomenon, a normal phenomenon that will produce products with genetically modified organisms in Ukraine. In Ukraine, where the earth, where the climate conditions, where infrastructure allows us to be an exclusive supplier to the world of clean agricultural products, environmental clean ones that are not used by GMOs. I think we need to take a closer look at this problem and think about the world division of labor, where Ukraine can play an important role in manufacturing without GMO content. It seems to me that this organ, including the one that should be kept to a minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u14	minimize this proportion of goods that are in Ukraine at all. We've had enough coming from abroad, and here we're going to make it ourselves. I'm definitely against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. A committee proposal. Oh, I'm sorry. Before the vote, a replica. Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u16	Thank you. Well, it's a good thing that our critical talks sparked the discussion and brought us all to our attention, that's what we're talking about. I just want to say that when I worked as a minister, it wasn't just the powers of those who handed over to the Committee of Veterinary Medicine, and then today's committee of veterinary medicine was just a department of the Ministry system. And it's from my supply that he became the State Committee of Veterinary Medicine, that's the first. We've entered functions, we've given them large ones. The second is that it is because of the existence of my Prime Minister and Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic that we have entered FAO and become a full member. But to this day, the authorities have not even been able to deploy their specialists to Italy to protect our interests there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. [[Registration number 5029]] The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. In accordance with the procedure, I will put, i.e. the Rules, a vote on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms, please vote. [[Registration number 5029]] [[16:16:20]] For 323 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to accept it as a whole. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u18	No, we need backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u19	You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u20	Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u21	I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt an entire draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms, please vote. [[Registration number 5029]] [[16:17:04]] For 328 The law is passed. Thank you. It is suggested that you consider, your fellow Members, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Control of International Transfers of Military Assignment and Double Use. Registration number 4123. The rapporteur is Head of the State Export Control Service, Petrochenko Yuri Adamovich, co-rapporteur, Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u22	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The practical application of the Ukrainian Law on State control of international transfers of dual-use goods and military supplies, adopted by the Supreme Council in February 2003, as well as the need to bring the procedures established by this law closer to those adopted and applied by most developed countries of the world, a number of problems that need to be addressed in order to further improve the export control system of the State. The main purpose of your consideration of the bill is to create the basis and conditions necessary for the introduction of export control procedures in Ukraine, which are closer to similar European community procedures, which, by the way, are much simpler than in Ukraine. For example, there is no total negotiation control, no excessive control of some international transfers, no import-export of certain categories of goods, etc. More simple documents are also used in comparison with Ukraine for the number of documents submitted by the export entities. The next task of the bill is to make changes to the above-mentioned law, which are subject to the requirements of article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Free Economic Activities, in the part of setting specific deadlines for making appropriate decisions in the field of export control, as well as the Ukrainian Act on State Secret in the part of the use of the term “material mediums of classified information”. The practical implementation of the selected core tasks is done through a series of changes to some articles, the main of which is a clearer definition of the scope of application of the law, article 2, and the delimitation of the scope of the law with the scope of the permit system of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, introduced standards that allow optimization.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u23	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u24	And so on. The bill has been reviewed and supported. I don't know what you're talking about. Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on National Security. The adoption of the law will allow a significant step to be taken to bring legislation closer to the field of expert control, to European requirements, to improve the procedure for State expert control and to increase the expertise of national producers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u25	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u26	Honourable National Deputies, the draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On Making Relevant Changes in State Control of International Transfers of Dual Assignment and Double Use Goods" is of fundamental importance for further improvement of both the state policy of expert control of weapons specialists and for the implementation of the powerful potential of scientific and technological, industrial, which is, in the defence and industrial complex of Ukraine. Ukraine is one of the world’s first ten countries in terms of exports of specialized equipment and weapons. There's a lot of competition on this market. Therefore, the issue of international authority, the implementation of relevant international procedures with respect to Ukraine’s obligations, including the clear coordination of the State by export entities of weapons specialists in Ukraine. On the basis of experience gained, the purpose of this law is to further improve the use of not only the export potential of Ukraine, but also the appropriate loading of unexploited capacities, the strengthening of controls on the activity of exporters, without reinforcing the monopoly of the State, to make a very serious effort to avoid acts of unfair competition by other States, including those that do not meet international standards from the point of view of Ukraine's interests. The bill was given appropriate hearings on the Supreme Council’s profile committees, including the National Security and Defence Committee, and is proposed for adoption in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u27	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich, you too! Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. It's a recording. Oleg Zarubinsky, please give the next address, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u28	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! This project is trying to regulate an extremely complex area, an area of conflict, and an area that is always controversial, because it is about what many international organizations are watching. Double-use goods are a whole list of goods that are different in different countries, and I'm not talking about open-source goods or direct military use. Thus, the adjustment and regulation of this system, or the improvement of this system by Ukraine, clearly goes to the riverside of these processes in the international market. The arms market, the dual-use goods market. But in this case, I'd like to take two, and I think that's the right thing to do with the scientific expertise. Here's the first one. The project proposes that international transfers of goods should be expanded by removing the obligation to participate in such transfers only by international goods transfers. However, in this case, I quote: “It is not clear who, apart from the subjects of international transfers of goods, can participate in international transfers of goods. ” If the presence of such participants is complemented only by foreign economic or other activities, it would be appropriate to find a way to indicate this, evidently in article 1. I think it's a very important question, because this is the problem that will cause the most controversy and most of all, I think, the dissatisfaction of international organizations, including organizations. So I think that in preparing for the second reading, it will be necessary for the authors of the legislative initiative to take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u29	Thank you, too. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u30	Honorary colleagues should certainly welcome the introduction of this bill in order to draw the attention of at least the public, especially the Ukrainian national deputies, to a new fact, it is clear that the existing practice of State control over the goods of the special-export groups is not effective throughout the system. Unfortunately, it has not only contributed to the competitiveness of military-industrial enterprises over the years, but often by some unthinkable decision it put sticks in wheels, banning or simply delaying the issuance of permits. Such a system works, unfortunately, for our foreign competitors. As a representative as a lobbyist in this session room, I've never hidden it, the interests of the military-industrial complex, I can call a lot of examples when you and I spent millions of dollars in the budget, telling or stretching the possibility of granting such a permit and so forth. So today we can talk not only about the loss of the budget, but about the loss of momentum from the protracted crisis in the real economy. About the bill, why I signed up against it. It will certainly be supported in the first reading, but I object to the adoption of this bill as a whole, because look at article 30, the size of wages today should not exceed 500 untaxed minimums. If the figure is not clearly fixed, what the price should be, then it will be the charge to the budget at the expense of, again, the enterprises of the agricultural industrial complex. And another thing is, in 2007, we succeeded, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's Janukovič allowed us to authorize businesses in Ukraine that had previously supplied military equipment to install spare parts. There is a legendary state enterprise in Zaporozhye, a latent company called the “Iskra” that once provided radio-location facilities throughout the Soviet Union. Today, the Iskra enterprise needs to be included in the list of companies that have the right to expert control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u31	Dear colleagues! Who else insists on the performance? None. So the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State control over international transfers of military supplies and dual use. [[Registration number 4123]] Please vote. [[16:28:22]] For 325 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Pension Insurance is being announced for consideration. [[on the insurance internship]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Suškevich Valeriy Mihajlovich. From where? Yes. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u32	Dear National Deputies! During meetings with voters, working pensioners asked us: Why such social injustice? [[all factions only]] They work, and when they have to review their pension, they take one year before that, not the one who worked. For example, in 2009, those pensioners who wanted to review their pension were allowed to work for 2007, not for 2008. This year, for example, if pensioners are to review their pension, they should take it in 2008. Thus, the entire year of insurance is lost. It is this law, the amendments to pension legislation, that stipulates that the year preceding the year of appeal should be taken when reviewing the pension. I mean, once again, if in 2010, a working pensioner turns to review his pension size, then all the other years, including 2009. That's perfectly fair. Why? Because the State, the Pension Fund, counts the pensioner himself, counts the pensioner’s retirement, so the pensioner’s retirement will take into account the life expectancy. Here we are making changes to article 42, which will allow for the restoration of social justice in the area of pensions for working pensioners. Second position. We make changes to articles 11 and 19. Very important changes, please listen. It is a matter of allowing the standard to be restored, and it has previously been involved in the inclusion of pregnancy and childbirth into the insurance system of maternity leave, that is, a woman who is on vacation in connection with pregnancy and childbirth. And it would also be appropriate to include this in the internship. It doesn't count now. So this is in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, this rule. It supported practically all of our factions. What I'm saying is that the Science and Technology Administration is offering to take this as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u33	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u34	The Science and Experimental Authority recommends that we take this as a basis. I'm asking you to accept it as a base. There are some clarifications to be made, and this law will work. Thus, our working pensioners will be able to count pensions according to the internship they earned after they retired and continued to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u35	Thank you. Please sit, Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please, Valery Mihajlovich Suškević. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u36	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Bill number 4694 was considered at a committee meeting. And the committee was very complex in its consideration of the bill. Because among the issues proposed for settlement is the definition of a clear mechanism for recalculating pensions for working pensioners. I would like to emphasize that there are two bills registered in the Supreme Council: one I said 4694 and one I said 4217. Considering that the issues raised are related to a clear mechanism for recalculation of pensions for retired workers and internships, it is necessary that a comprehensive, coordinated work be done to harmonise all the provisions of these two bills with the system, the current current current pension and insurance system, the Committee has asked the Ministry of Labour, the Pension Fund, the Federation of Ukrainian Workers and the other parties of the social dialogue to seek such a way under these two bills, which solves the problem and will allow for a balance between the financial capacity of the Ukrainian Pension Fund and social justice in pension insurance. I want to say that we've considered, we've got these proposals, they're now being processed and, given the definition, the committee is proposing to adopt this bill in the first reading, and then it will be further developed into a second reading, taking into account all the proposals made, including another bill that's registered and also being considered in our committee. Thank you for your attention. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Alexander Stoyan, a faction of the Party of the Regions, hands over the right to speak to Jaroslav Sukhoma. Please, Jaroslav Suhogo's microphone, the next Oleg Zarubinsky will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is clear that the restoration of social justice in the area of pension insurance is a matter of extreme urgency and urgency. I was a little surprised by the position of the head of the board of profile on pensioners' affairs that, he said this phrase interesting: Depending on the financial capacity of the Pension Fund. If we adjust pension legislation to the financial possibilities of the Pension Fund, we're not going to have 45 million, we're going to have 46 or 44, more loyally, or 42, because what's currently going on in retirement is not the same as the abuse of a person, the former person of work can't be called. Now, let's get to the point. In Zaporozhye, in particular, the problem of providing high-quality, professional staff in industrial enterprises, such as machinery, is now extremely acute. So what's extremely relevant to us is the question of restoring social justice for working pensioners, for those people who seem to already have the opportunity to sit with the uncle on the beach, they've gone further to the industry and, believe me, they're working very hard and they're working extremely hard. What's more, today these people, our veterans, are performing functions, lost functions, unfortunately, too many vocational schools. Because vocational and technical schools, starting in 2008, have been deprived of government funding, have started to train visažists and masseuses instead of preparing hairdressers, tocars, or machine managers with numerical software management. So this bill is extremely important. I'm surprised, for example, I don't know what the second law is, which is going to be introduced, which is supposed to be registered, and then two bills will be drafted on this basis. There's this bill. He's real, he's specific, he's been through all the stages of the discussion. I offer him, he has his registered number, I suggest you support him in the first reading in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u39	Oleg Zarubin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u40	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, in our view, this bill is not only relevant, but it is essentially just, humane. And in line with the previous statement that the State should respect, with understanding of working pensioners, because a person who has already earned a pension when he receives a salary is not favored by the state, because he does the same job. But I would like to emphasize how I see the humanitarian and humane nature of this bill. That the objects to which the standards proposed in the bill are extended are very vulnerable to the categories of our population, in addition to what has already been said, by working as pensioners, except for women who had a maternity leave, there are also those who served in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Security Service. This includes those who care for a child’s disability, the first - group disability, or the elderly, who, according to the medical institution, need constant foreign care, or reach 80 years of age. And so to throw away the rights, the constitutional rights of these people, we just don't have the right. In our view, the bill regulates these standards fairly and is worthy of support. The ‘Lithuania Block’ will fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, who else insists on expressing their position? Peter Cibenko. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u42	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues, indeed, are extremely important in the bill, and they regulate the very important sphere, the sphere of employment, the insurance system. And this is really a matter to be decided. I'm also talking about this because any legislation needs to be improved, but this improvement only makes sense if we're going to live by these laws. I also say this because the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy, and the Pension Fund of Ukraine have recently expressed a desire to regulate certain rules of law with their own explanations. This was the case last year when the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy and the Pension Fund of Ukraine issued a joint commission on the use of the average 2007 salary for pensions in 2009. Then I want to warn you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u43	Peter Stepanovich, do you have everything you need to finish? All of it. Please, Olena Hotch. What does the Ministry think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, we would be very grateful if you would approve of this bill today on your first reading, and we would quickly develop it for our second reading. The bill is awaited by the people, and the Ministry and Government support it in the first reading. And we are interested in a legislative solution to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, no one insists anymore? I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance. [[on the insurance internship]] Please vote. [[16:39:52]] For 294 Decision taken. Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u46	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I would just like to ask you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this is in your power in fact. We've been asking questions in sessions about the adoption of the census of Ukrainian wedding dates, and we don't come to it all the time. Now, judging from the fact that we're not going to get to him again today, he's standing there, someone's modeling that last one. Then we'll go on our break, and it's January. I would just ask, it would take very little time to bring this question out a little bit earlier, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to give the government the document, after all, by marking the memorable dates of the all-U.S. level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u47	Thank you. I guarantee that we will consider this bill today, since there are a number of issues on the agenda that are suggested to be passed on in connection with the absence of reporters. I'm going to tell you right now, we're going to get to that. Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the delimitation of powers of state authorities in the areas of natural monopolies and in the field of communication is now under consideration. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee of the Moroz Svetlana Mikhailovna and the co-rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy of the Belarus Irina Anatoliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill is designed to implement a plan for the preparation of draft acts necessary to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the concept of improving national regulation of natural monopolies. The purpose of the bill is to improve the efficiency of government regulation in the field of natural monopolies and in the markets of telecommunications. Amendments to Ukraine's Anti-Monopoly Committee on Ukraine's Laws, on Protection of Economic Competition, on Telecommunications, on Natural Monopolies and on the Code on Administrative Offences are envisaged. Their aim is to clearly distinguish between the powers of the Antimonopoly Committee and the regulators of natural monopolies and telecommunications in the area of market research and to determine the legal status of operators in these markets for the purposes of regulating them and for the purposes of applying legislation for the protection of economic competition. The regulator of natural monopolies is empowered to identify specific subjects of natural monopolies or telecommunications market entities whose activities will be regulated in accordance with the Law on Natural Monopolies and the Law on Telecommunications. On this basis, regulators will maintain branch registers of such owners. I would like to point out that today the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies provides for the introduction by regulators of such registers, but there are no defined approaches for these regulators to determine the operators who will then be included in such registers. This gap is now proposed to be removed. In doing so, the order of determining natural monopolies will be developed by the Antimonopoly Committee and the central executive body, which will ensure that national economic policies are implemented. At the same time, the Antimonopoly Committee is expected to carry out a consolidated list of natural monopolies based on registers that will be compiled and conducted by national commissions to regulate natural monopolies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u49	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u50	Monopolies and telecommunications are also encouraged to define more clearly the rights of national regulators to obtain the information they need to carry out all the regulation. Currently, there are spheres of natural monopolies that do not have national regulators and do not define a set of rights and powers of other organs, branches, local self - government bodies that can enforce such regulations. This gap is also offered for settlement. In addition, the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition proposes to identify mechanisms for the participation of regulators of natural monopolies and telecommunications in the implementation of State policy in the area of economic competition. Regarding the telecommunications sector, it is proposed to change the term “monopoly position on the market” used in the law to the term “operator – telecommunications provider” with a significant market advantage. Market research in communications services to identify operators with significant market advantages that are subject to regulation will rely on regulators. The Antimonopoly Committee agrees with the order by which NHRIs appoints operators and providers with a significant market advantage. And these changes will remove the conflict of laws on the protection of economic competition and on telecommunications as part of the definition of legal regulation. Please accept this law, support this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u51	Thank you. Below's Irina Anatolyevna, deputy head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u52	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, amends the following laws: the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Protection of Economic Competition, Telecommunications, Natural Monopolies and the Code of Administrative Offences. These changes legislate the delineation of the powers of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine and the regulatory authorities in the field of natural monopolies and communications, in particular the clear powers of the public authorities to carry out market research and determine the legal status of economic actors in these markets, thus ensuring effective regulation of the data of economic operators, clarifying the mechanism for the participation of regulatory authorities in the market for natural monopolies in the implementation of public policies for the development of economic competition and the limitation of monopolies. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council Office believes that, following consideration of the bill, it can be recommended for adoption as a basis. The Committees of the Supreme Council: The bill is also supported by law enforcement and European integration. Our committee has considered this bill as early as 24 June 2009, and the members of our committee unanimously support this committee and recommend that the Supreme Council adopt it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u53	Thank you, Irina Anatolyevna, sit down. Dear colleagues, if they are willing, please sign in. It's a recording. Yes, please, on the table is the name of the national MPs. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, micron
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u54	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. With most of those observations, the additions that are now being submitted to the law can be agreed, this is to the Law on Natural Monopolies, the Antimonopoly Committee. But I think it's the Code of Administrative Offences, especially the remarks that. the changes to Article 148 with the “5” sign, which changes terms and is written “a provider with a significant market advantage” – the term goes, instead of the words that were written: “who occupies a monopoly, dominant position”. I wouldn't do that. It would not do so otherwise when the term “monopoly status” or “dominant market position” is replaced, because it is an international practice that determines what the dominant position of the operator is. This is exactly in line with the Act in force to protect economic competition. So I'd like us to clarify these terms and see if it's going to do any good or if it's going to do any harm. With this law under consideration, I would like to draw the attention of all the national deputies to the situation we are facing today with wireless radio. It is being destroyed today by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. And I would ask the committee that reported today to prepare and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u55	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. This is a matter of national security, a question of public reporting in the event of an emergency and the destruction of such acquisitions of Ukrainians is a huge loss to national security. I don't know why the Ukrainian Security Service is silent. I ask you to respond to Valentina Navejchenka's appeal, because this is an extremely harmful activity that is being carried out in this regard to the destruction of the radio. And those.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else insists? There's no insistence? The bill is closed. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the delimitation of powers of state authorities in the areas of natural monopolies and in the field of communications. [[Registration number 4524]] Please vote. Please vote, the vote is on. [[16:51:25]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading draft law registration number 4524, please vote. Let's do it again. [[16:51:49]] For-160. The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to consider the draft Law on the Fund for Guaranteeing Credit Associations, a very important bill. But there is a request from the author of the bill, Klimenko Alexandre Ivanovich, and from the faction requesting his departure tomorrow. Is there no objection? Let's put it on Thursday. I would ask that question if we would consider it tomorrow. The next project is, more specifically, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization of Proceeds Received by Crime, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 08.12.2009. Registration number 3062. I remind you, dear colleagues, that we agreed on the Conciliation Council, if the committee considers it today during the break, we will discuss it. If the committee doesn't get a chance to look at it, we'll put it off for Thursday. Wednesday's committee meeting. The committee was unable to review and prepare all the necessary materials, since the law had not long since joined the Supreme Council. So there's an offer to postpone his consideration to Thursday. Is there no objection? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should take a look at this. we need to consider a draft regulation on parliamentary hearing recommendations on the subject “External Ukraine: the state of the art and the prospects for cooperation”, registration number 5326. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that on October 14, 2009, Parliamentary hearings were held in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the theme “External Ukraine: the state of the art and the prospects for cooperation”. For the first time, Parliament held a hearing on this subject. Without exaggeration, I can point out that listening was of great interest, particularly among the foreign Ukrainians, more than 80 representatives of foreign Ukrainians, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the United States, Canada, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, France, Spain and many other countries came to Ukraine at their own expense to take part in this action. A total of about five hundred participants attended the hearings. The number of problems that have been accumulated and those who wish to express themselves has led to the length of hearings for four hours, which is twice the length of the time prescribed by the Rules. The recommendations discussed by the Committee on November 4, 2009, in particular, stressing the need to improve legal principles in the area of cooperation with foreign Ukrainians. Conducting a consistent state policy in this area with proper funding. Improved coordination between government authorities and the leading centres of the Ukrainians. The preservation of the national and cultural identity of Ukrainians abroad, the satisfaction of their linguistic, educational, informational needs, the problems of migrant workers, the promotion of the return of Ukrainian citizens abroad to their homeland, and so on. This draft recommendation was given on time by the National MP, and I ask the committee to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u59	Dear National Deputies! I'm voting on the proposal. May I have your attention, please? Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for a committee on adoption as a basis and for the whole of the draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation on the topic “External Ukraine – a state of the art and prospects for cooperation”. Registration number 5326. Change the vote, please, Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, call off the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u60	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I looked closely at the text, it was Russian, and it would not be quite beautiful, for example: ” Today the Ukrainian State has certain gains and so on.” We cannot use such a thing when we make such a serious decision for the foreign country and for our society. So I would ask, by voting and supporting this decision, to assign editorial authority, to allow grammatical correction of certain things here. Because there are things that need to be fixed. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would ask that you, at the same time, make this protocol commission so that we can vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the proposal to make editorial clarifications is considered. Dear colleagues, I beg your attention, it's not about the diaspora, but it's about people who live and work abroad, including in Russia, in other countries. I'm asking you, let's act in such a way that anyone, we respect them, just so they respect us. I am voting on the proposal of a committee on adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on “External Ukraine. The current path and prospects for cooperation.” [[Registration number 5326]] Please vote. [[16:58:27]] For 206 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please let's not discuss this. I'll put the vote on the ground now, and then we'll take it as a whole. I would only ask one thing to understand that when we make decisions about holding parliamentary hearings, we will not disrespect ourselves. Foreign Ukrainians are the ones who live in Russia, who live in Belarus, in other countries. What are you doing? I am voting on the basis of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on “External Ukraine. The state of the art and the prospects for cooperation.” [[Registration number 5326]] Please vote. [[16:59:29]] For 218. The decision is not taken. I'll put it to a vote on how to proceed with the drafting of the regulation. By factions, please: Party of regions – 1, Block of Timoshenko – 138, Our Ukraine – 57, Communists – 0, Block of Lithuania – 20, non-fractional – 2. Dear colleagues! We've been working really well. This should be done without self - respect or respect for those living outside the country. I'm voting for a return to the draft ruling. [[Registration number 5326]] Return to consideration of the draft decision. [[17:00:23]] For 222 The decision is not taken. I'm voting back on the draft regulation. [[Registration number 5326]] Please vote. [[17:00:50]] For 204 The decision is not accepted. The decree is rejected. Please. Dear colleagues! The decree is rejected. Oleg Zarubinsky and all. Let's vote with cards, not with hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! These are all the vows and vows about caring for those people, the millions of people who work abroad: in Russia, Belarus, Canada, Spain, Poland, the price of all that is said to the public, and in fact there is contempt for our compatriots, the people who are forced to work abroad who cannot support their families. That's the price of words.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u63	Thank you. Question completed. All of it. Dear colleagues! Question completed. I'm just going to say, you have to be so disdainful of yourself that you have to disrespect people who have been shown by the power of fate outside the country. Dear colleagues! At the time of the review of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine. [[Registration number 5435]] It is suggested that this law should be postponed in view of the technical circumstances involved in the drafting of the bill. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u64	Let's put it down. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Regulation on the subject is being announced. Where is she? Draft Decision marking the 300th anniversary of the founding of the Lysicánsk Lugansk Region [[B in m in s a l in]] Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u65	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I propose such a thing here, Lysichansk, the celebration of the Jubilee of Lisicansk is already in the draft general decree, where we all give. Because I don't think we should vote separately, he's in our decision. The observance of Every Doub, the Jubilee, is the same in our determination. The only thing that's missing is the Bible, that's all. There is no need to waste time. It's all in ours, in the draft of our decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u66	Vladimir Alexanderovich, I agree with you here, but at the same time, the authors insist, there is nothing I can do. So I'm announcing a draft regulation on the 300th anniversary of the establishment. Lysicánsk Luhansk district. [[Registration number 4539]] We're going to be having longer debates than we're going to be discussing issues. From the Martinyuk procedure, please, then, Karpuk Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u67	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I asked the procedure because you were really absent when this matter was discussed. This is about getting back to the vote. We've heard this draft decision before, we've discussed it. Our job now is to vote on these draft decrees, because, like foreign Ukraine, we've already discussed it, and then we haven't had enough votes. The same is true of Lysician. There's no need to listen again. Let's just go to decision-making. Let's get out of the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, now Vladimir Karpuk and I will make a point, here I made a technical mistake. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u70	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, indeed, had been dealt with before and had not obtained the necessary number of votes, and several times the vote was put to the vote. If we go that way, I will also insist that the question of marking the 925th anniversary of the founding day of Lucca and the 700th anniversary of the city of Covella be considered by a decision that was also registered by me. Because if we have decided to do so by a single decision, I agree with that and ask you to consider Decree 5413 instead of considering separate decisions. As for the 800th anniversary of the city of Bibrica, it will only be in 2011, and the 540th anniversary of the law of Magdeburg has already taken place in Bibrka in 2009. Let's make some really principles for dealing with these issues, because we're always looking at this: someone, someone, someone, likes something -- they go into the room, they don't like it, they don't go into it. Let us follow the only principles.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's be clear. With regard to the city of Lysichansk, the Lugansk region was not supported by the vote in the hall then two bills 5435 and 4539 were introduced into the section to return to previously unsupported issues. With regard to foreign Ukraine, this issue was discussed at parliamentary hearings but was not voted on. So, honourable colleagues, these are all questions that have passed since the previous plenary sessions. So let's do it this way right now, Vladimir Karpuk's proposal also has the right to live, he's going to insist and we're going to look at it separately. But we have a confirmed schedule for Tuesday, we'll follow this schedule. But I will now put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 300th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Lysichansk Lugansk Region, and I ask you to identify yourself. [[Registration number 4539]] Please identify yourself and then return to the bag. [[17:07:12]] For-166 Dear colleagues, this is the result of our political processes. When the question was about foreign Ukraine -- they didn't vote. And now we get the next result. I'm voting for re-reading the draft law. draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine marking the 300th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Lysichansk Lugansk district. [[Registration number 4539]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:07:57]] For 175 The decision is not taken. The draft decision was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party – 142, “Clock Timoshenko” – 5, “Our Ukraine” – 27, Communists – 27, “Clock of Lithuania” – 0, non-fractional – 1. A draft regulation on the 800th anniversary of the establishment of the Bibraca Lviv Region and the 540th anniversary of the award to the city of Magdeburg is being announced. Registration number 4755. Mikhailo Kosov is a reporter, Ukrainian national deputy. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u72	Mikhailo Kosov, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” faction of the “Reforms and Orders” party. Dear colleagues, I think we did the wrong thing. The 300th anniversary of Lysicansk was to be voted on. I don't know if you remember this from the school bench of Vladimir Sossira, “The fox over Dinz, where the smoke of factories will rise”. So if we voted this out, we would have had the opportunity to rekindle the entire atmosphere. The fact that we didn't vote out the Zarubinsky project on foreign Ukrainians, it's a shame at all, it's a failure. And so, colleagues, I'm asking you very much, 800 years is a round date. However, it's not even about that. You know, it's the anniversary of Magdeburg Law. And I'm going to suggest that when we're here in our room to consider the Law on Local Self-Government, we have to report separately on the law of Magdeburg as the ideal law of the Middle Ages, in a way that applied to many of our cities and which, as it were, started our current traditions of local self-government. Because Magdeburg was not only a city in Western Europe but also a city in Kiev. Vote, please, this is an important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality In fact, Mikhail Kosov may have been a little late with this design of determination and marking this amazing Jubilee, indeed, which reminds us of our deep history and deep democracy and that many cities, not only in Western Ukraine but also in Central Ukraine, had an amazing status in ancient times, having the Magdeburg right, self-government. It's amazing, I just don't know how we can give up such things, because this is our story, these are some signs of our early Ukrainian statehood. Because of this, we simply failed to bring the Bible’s Jubilee to this list. But I would like to ask my colleagues from the Party of Regions: “Mr. Michael, Mr. Michael Chechetov, I am addressing you, the city of Lysichansk is in the list of the famous dates. Then don’t vote, vote for it in a package, it’s all very easy to do.” Because of this, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, which includes representatives of all our political segments that are in our Parliament, voted in favour and supports this draft regulation. Well, if you vote, let's see.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this? Please sign in. Please put it on the board. People's Deputies of Paris, then Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u76	A boy named Andrew. I would like to point out that politics has begun to be involved in the consideration of matters that really do not have any political bearing, and there has been opposition in the room. When it comes to a given city, the city of Bibrka, it is a city with a very famous history, and I think that the national electorate simply does not have the moral right to raise political opposition to the issues that apply to both the celebration of this city and the fate of those who live in the small city of Lviv. I am convinced that in this matter, at least, our deputies, the deputies from Lviv, will be unanimous regardless of what political faction they are referring to in Parliament today. And if we vote together, I'm sure the question will pass. I'd like to support Mr. Yavorowski. Indeed, the question of Lysichansk is in the list of dates that we will be voting literally because of one question. We will be able to correct perhaps this inadequacy that took place in this room. And so if we reject any political opposition from this point of view, and we work as it is for the people's deputies, I am convinced, and the question of Bibraca, and the question of Lysichansk, and the question of the whole range of other very important dates, we will be able to vote together in this room. So I urge everyone to respond to the name of the people's advocates, to reject political opposition and to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u77	Thank you. Valerius Kamchatny, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u78	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. Under the influence of an extremely serious situation. under the motto “East and West Together!” I ask my colleague Taran-Teren to give the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u79	Did they give me the word? Thank you. All of it. Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, I would like to associate with you in the context that really political battalions are moving into cities. We voted in favour of Ukrainians abroad. If you knew the respectable regions that almost half the recommendations there were from your Carpathian, but they're not listening right now. Chechetov! There's half the recommendations about Ukrainians abroad -- those sailors, those sailors who die there, who take Somali pirates and so on. And you don't vote for it. But here the wise Mikhailo Kossov tried to tell, you know, the communists that this is our story and all that. It will not pass, dear friend Mikhailo! The word "history" for them is, well, scary, you know. And when you quote today, my dear colleagues, they're talking about. The beautiful poems of Sosira are nearer to them than the poems that today sound near the C.V.C., where half-drunk people run and agitate with these verses: “Op-dawach, we are for Yanukovich!” That's your story today. And that's why it's too bad. Unfortunately, I have a huge doubt that for this beautiful date, the date of granting the city of Magdeburg, the date when we were truly recognized in Europe, we were with them, I very much doubt that this will find support in the hall today. I think that, unfortunately, today is the word “history” and for the Party of Regions, and for the Communists it is the word prohibited “terra-incognito”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u80	Thank you. Vadim Koleschenko. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u81	Dear colleagues! You know, it's weird enough for me right now to consider the issue of the city of Bibrka Lviv district. The faction Timoshenko of Shimina Timoshenko has not yet voted for the 300th anniversary of the founding of the city of Lisicanska Lugansk oblast. This is the region that is actually feeding most of the Western Ukrainian regions. Well, at least it's just a hunch, this time. And Block Timoshenko showed us how they split Ukraine in half, those who benefit them, and those who do not. But as long as it's a ruling coalition, we probably need to give them the right to continue to divide Ukraine. There's still a little, like, two weeks left, thank God. Then we change that power, and our power will be very simple and normal. All Ukrainians should live in Ukraine, mark all cities, respect all people, especially the south-east, which is indeed a donor to a large number of Western Ukraine areas. So let's think about how to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u82	Chauvney. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg of you, Your Honor, let us not disturb the situation. Now we're going to get out of this complicated colossus that's caused by fever. For if, on one side, the word “foreign Ukraine” is lost every single one of them. Lysichanski -- others are losing consciousness. But everywhere, they feed people and everyone, including us, who are sitting in this session hall. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, most important of all, our constituencies, I just want to correct the misinformation of the previous speaker. We didn't vote in full. We didn't vote for Lysichansk just because I'm going to report the general list. And the Committee on Culture and Spirituality unanimously celebrated the Jubilee of the City of Lysicánsk to a list of Ukrainian dates. As a result, Your Honor, do not provoke us, please. We love Lysichansk and south and north and west and east of Ukraine the same. And in this list there are all the dates, there is John Kožedub, who probably shouldn't vote alone and together in this package. Let's demonstrate our unity, let's not, please, scan the facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, let me now propose that we make a decision, get out of this colossal. Let's take another look at the draft regulation concerning John Kožedub, and then, if you don't mind, I'll put it to the vote to go back to the four draft decrees and vote them together. Because we're starting to spend now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, you don't want to. You don't want to do that. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't have to. The Rules don't have to be silent. So I'm going to put it to a vote. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute! Listen to me! We have now concluded our discussion of Bill 4755, which refers to the 800th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Birka Lviv district and the 540th anniversary of the granting of the city of Magdeburg law. I am voting on the approval of the draft regulation (registration number). [[B in m in s a l in]] Change the vote, please. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u85	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, here comes the proposal of the People's Deputy of Lithuania. Not the Head of the Supreme Council, the People's Deputy of Lithuania. He proposed that all four bills be put in place and voted at the same time. I don't know who started yelling from the place, but that's the offer. I insist that the proposal of the Lithuanian national deputy is now made to eliminate this distinction of the hall and to ask, not to politicize, to put a Levite city, 800 years old, to whom the Luganian city, 300 years old, has been placed three times by the Hero of the Soviet Union of Cosdub John Mikitovich, who deserves to be put together by foreign Ukrainians. And that's absolutely right, because there's a warrant for both the IMF and there's a commission for the government of these foreign Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, thank you for your offer. Let's do it this way: the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, if you'll excuse me. The Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support the decision-making of parliamentary hearings, although the foreign country, and most of all I want to say to those zealous defenders, lives in Russia. Next, I didn't support the city of Lysichansk for 300 years, I didn't support it. What other decisions are there? Well, he'll be in the city of Birke Lviv district. Then we'll walk through every oak tree, we'll be disgraced here again, we won't support it. Then we'll all go back together and vote in the bag. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, don't you want to? Well, that's all right! May I have your attention, please? You don't have to. I'm voting on the adoption of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine marking the 800th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Bibrka in the Lviv region and the 540th anniversary of the granting of the city of Magdeburg. [[Registration number 4755]] Please vote. [[17:22:21]] For 224 The decision is not taken. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Announcing the draft Determining Regulation. Please, let's go back to all the bills. About the 90th anniversary of the birth of Three Heroes of the Soviet Union of Cosedub John Mikitovich. Registration number 4673, 4673-1. National deputies of Ukraine Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, Koleshničenko Vadim Vasilovic and co-rapporteur, Cibenko Petr Stepanovic, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u87	Thank you. Dear voters, dear colleagues! There is not much time left until the 90th anniversary of the birth of the famous son of the Ukrainian people, the air marshal John Mikitovich Kožeduba. It's going to be June 8, 2010. Ivan Mikitovich was born in the village of Shostkinsk, in the district of Suma. This is the only one, I would like to emphasise, of course, of my fellow countrymen, the only Ukrainian, three times the Hero of the Soviet Union. Ivan Mikitovich fought on the Vronezsky, Stepov, Second Ukrainian, and First Belarusian fronts. Took part in the fights of the Kursky Duc, for the liberation of the native Ukrainian land, in the storm of Berlin. During the years of the Great Homeland War, he carried out 330 combat missions, knocked down 62 enemy planes, including one jet. The battle and career path of Kožedub is marked by Lenin’s Order, seven Orders of the Red Flag, Alexander Nevsky’s Order, two Orders of the Red Star, many medals. Every doub was a member of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union for four calls, and his political activity was aimed at accelerating Ukraine's economic and social development, particularly its north-eastern region, from which he was elected as a member of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union. Kožeduba’s name was and remains a symbol of courage and courage, a model of military service for many generations of Ukrainians, and it is venerated throughout the world. Taking into account the enormous contribution of John Mikitovich Kožedub to the liberation of Ukraine and other republics.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u88	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u89	from German-Fashistic invaders in the Great War, aware of their significant contribution to the acceleration of Ukraine's development and to the reconstruction of the nation's agriculture in postwar years, and proposes to make a decision to celebrate at the national level 90 years after the birth of John Mikitovich Kožeduba. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u90	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vadim Koleschenko on the draft decree, registration number 4673-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u91	Respectable colleagues and respectable voters! Our draft regulation is an alternative, we believe it is more complete, because it reflects not only Ivan Nikitovich Kožeduba's questions of worship only in a small country, but we believe that the project we are proposing is a sign of Ivan Nikitovich Kožeduba's attention at the State level throughout Ukraine. Our project sets out the ideology of the uniting factor of the entire Ukrainian people through the formation of national pride for the outstanding son of Ukraine. In the title of the order, the text refers to the military name Ivan Kožeduba of the Air Marshal, which indicates that he was a professional military pilot and a military superior, which is important for the military-patriot education of young people. The project envisages the proclamation of 2010 by Ivan Kožeduba. The project envisions the construction of the Kožeduba monument in the city of Kiev, not the completion of its construction, as indicated in the alternative project. Because the construction hasn't started yet. The project called for the name of the street in the capital of Ukraine; the President was asked to assign Ivan Kožeduba the name Hero of Ukraine; and the proposal was made to create an aerospace face for children orphaned by 500 seats in the town of Harkov. And the draft regulation that we are proposing has been held by public hearings in all Ukrainian veteran military organizations, who have supported our draft decree and have offered to take it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u92	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality I want to let you know that the committee has considered both of these decisions made by our two colleagues. The committee has absolutely unanimously supported this decision, and it's all set up, and it's on our list of global dates, and I just want to remind you that it's a truly legendary Ukrainian, a legendary person. I'll tell you that in Luftwaffe there were only two people who had these German crosses twice, or what they were called, and in Normandy-Neman there was another pilot who was also rewarded twice. So it's not just a person, let's say, out of a military system, not just a representative of Ukraine, it's not just a unique view, it's a unique phenomenon, when a person was rewarded three times with the highest title of the Soviet Union at that time. And in the end, I'm going to say that this was a human being, every Dubois, so that we can vote. When he was once beaten and rescued by one man in the occupied territory and then transported, wait! - Don't cry, believe me. Once he landed, listen to the end, one grandfather took him home, fed him, and so on, and later everything was fine. And he asked Grandpa, "What do you want to do, what did you help me with?" Grandfather said, "Good solo machine." And after the war, he brought him this solitary apparatus. Is such a man not to be voted on?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u94	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please proceed from the committee to the vote now. Everyone, please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u95	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to make it clear about these two decrees that apply to the same outstanding person of the Great Homeland War. At the time of the meeting of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, one bill was registered under number 4673, authored by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Matvijev Valentin Grigorovich and Danilenko Vladimir Andryovich. And the committee, after considering the draft decree, recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support it on the basis and in general. Sometime later a bill was registered, the author of which is the national deputy Kolisnichenko. It's essentially not an alternative, it's largely the same to some degree it's repeating, to some extent there are some nuances here. The committee had to set up a separate meeting on this bill, and it was considered. But since the committee's decision to support Bill 4673 was taken at the time of its consideration, the committee decided as follows to recommend to the Supreme Council that Bill 4673 be supported in the session room as a basis and as a whole. As for Bill 4673-1, this document is to be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Secretary of the President to take it into account in essence, and to prepare for the celebration of this remarkable date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, no objection to putting the vote to the vote? None. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'll bet one at a time. You don't have to take it to the pile.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u97	Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u98	I am. Yes. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, we now unanimously support the 90th anniversary of the birth of John Mikitovich Kožeduba. And our request, in particular our faction, after this vote we return to three decisions that have not been supported. Maybe someone didn't read this decree about Ukrainians abroad, I was doing parliamentary hearings, there the left part is about so-called workers or labour immigrants that we're protecting, and which, by the way, here a colleague was speaking today, the largest investor in Ukraine, they're feeding us, not just one region, and these people are feeding us. How much money is being brought from Russia, Italy, or something else. So our proposal is, BUT is now voting in favour of the 90th anniversary decree, and we're going back to the three missed rulings: Lysichanski, Bibrka and foreign Ukraine, and we're voting on all three of these documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I will now put to the vote the first draft of the ruling by Valentin Matthews. The draft decree marking the 90th anniversary of the birth of three times the Hero of the Soviet Union of Cosedub John Mikitovich for the adoption of the draft decree as a decree. [[Registration number 4673]] Please vote. There's a vote coming. Please vote. [[17:33:25]] For 227 I'll take the order. By factions, please note that the Party of Regions is 7, the Block of July Timoshenko – 128, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 42, the Communists – 27, the Block of Lithuania – 20, the non-factional – 3. All of it. Please, Your Honor, please, let's just calm down. We don't have much to discuss. Now, dear fellows, I'm going to put it together, so let's all put it together, yes. Dear colleagues, if we are not to demonstrate our opposition, we need to make decisions regarding the city’s memorable dates in the Lviv district of Lysicánsk in foreign Ukraine. My suggestion was to go back to reviewing these bills and vote on them in a bag. I'm asking you to support us to take down these political narratives. I am voting on my proposal to go back to the draft documents 5326 is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation, 4539 marking the 300th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Lysichansk and 4755 marking the 800th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Bibrka Lviv district and the 540th anniversary of the granting of the city of Magdeburg. Please vote for my proposal. [[17:35:20.]] For 230 We're back to looking at these projects. I am putting to the vote, please note, on the adoption of the draft rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a decree: registration number 5326 - on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the topic "External Ukraine: the present state and prospects of cooperation"; 4539 on the marking of the 300th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Lysichansk Lugansk Region; 4755 on the marking of the 800th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Bibrka Lviv Region and the 540th anniversary of the award of the city of Magdeburg Law. Please vote. [[17:36:16]] For 323 Decision taken. May I have your attention, please? The factions, please. May I have your attention, please? Region Party – 92, Block Timoshenko – 148, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 60, Communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 20, non-fractional – 3. Now we need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the Day - to - Day Project of the 2010 Memorial and Jubilee Regulations. Registration number 5413. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:37:05]] For 226 They've put it in the order of the day. The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Yavorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich. Correspondent is deputy head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u101	Vladimir Yavorowski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko", head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Dear colleagues, I would very much like to ask you as a colleague to calm down. We've given so much passion to a very regular, very simple one, I'd say to a fundamental question that would probably be solved in another Parliament or in Polish, or any one in a few minutes. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality, in September, sent letters to every national deputy, I emphasize, to every personal national MP, to every faction of the MP who is, sent letters to everyone without exception from the Ministry, especially culture, the Ministry of Education and other ministries with requests. And we've agreed that we're going to try not to get involved with any particular dates and personnel that we and the Committee on Culture are going to systematize this and we're going to take one decision. [[Vladimir Mikhailovich can confirm this]] Our approach is absolutely universal. We're ready. The committee is ready to support and outstanding, let's say, as we voted in favour of the Cossack, we're ready to vote in favour of outstanding dates and Soviet history in the same way, I'm not talking about the history of our ancient or closer, especially those dates that were before a certain ban. We sent them out, we reminded them several times: National MPs, don't be late. As long as we could, we would consider the entire list, every date, as long as we could. We've been thinking about overcoming it so that we don't turn it into total holidays and solid toys, but on the other hand, to celebrate that this 2010 will make our entire Ukrainian history, I'm stressing once again, our whole story, not throwing out truly remarkable memorable dates. We've prepared a document for you that, I repeat, we've included.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u102	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u103	We included both Lysician and Cossack, and so on. Because I would ask very much of us, this is our story here, on this list, you've all reviewed it. Because of this, I would very much like to reject any political misunderstandings and vote. It's been a year now, and the Cabinet of Ministers must have organized their marking. I'm very grateful and I believe in our collegiate mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u104	Thank you. Jaroslav Kenzier, please. No Jaroslav Kendzior? Dear colleagues, please sign in, please. Dear colleagues, I continue to work for 15 minutes to consider the TSK report on the city of Kiev. And that way, for today, we're going to run out of schedule. Vladimir Karpuk, please, microphone. Then there's Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, I ask all deputies, regardless of their political affiliations, to vote in favour of this important decision. Ukraine has always been proud of its sons regardless of nationality, regardless of their place of birth, and many Ukrainians have celebrated other lands. The famous exhibition in the Ukrainian House, sponsored by Peter Andryovich Yushchenk, How many Ukrainians have glorified themselves in other worlds, became prominent people, prominent people, leaders of other nations, builders of space, singers, architects, and many other countries have adopted their own. The Ukrainians were adopted, and they became an integral part of their science, culture, and social life. At the same time, if you work on this subject, very many of our famous people do not even have a date of birth in the encyclopedias. There's a lot of change, a lot of the manuals are interpreting these dates or there's a question mark. So it's a very small piece of work that was carried out by both the committee and by other national MPs. On the 2010 anniversary list and twice the Soviet Union's Hero, Admiral Horshkov, and the pilot, twice the Soviet Union's Hero, Crimean Tatar Ahmed Khan Sultan, and many others. And so if we observe and talk about just one figure or one personality and do around it, it will not do any good. We must honor every great Ukrainian, every outstanding son of the Ukrainian people, vote these decrees, and do everything we can to ensure that their marking goes on both a national and a local level. It is extremely wide for our young generation to know about those born and living in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u106	Andrew Schlell. Adam Martinyuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u107	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, of course the Yulia Tymoshenko Block will support this ruling. In general, we believe that everyone who has been involved in Ukrainian history deserves to be respected and duly noted by the Ukrainian State. You know, on the other hand, I was very surprised by the faction of the Party of the Regions. I can't understand how or why. Now, just now, I'm starting to analyze and guess why it was the Party of Regions that didn't vote three times for the Hero of the Soviet Union of John Kožedub, who destroyed tens of thousands of fascists who destroyed the Fascist Aces who fought against fascism at the time. Then it may not be heard that one of the leaders of the Party of Regions had a policeman’s father. Maybe it's not a rumor, maybe it's a real fact, maybe it's the reason that the faction of the Party of Regions didn't vote for the Hero of the Soviet Union, for the man who destroyed, fought against fascism. Is that really the main reason? I think it's a disgrace to those who are fighting in this way for political power in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u108	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, everyone who speaks begins by saying that there is no politics here, but, according to our vote, this has turned into politics and politics. I support the idea that we should make decisions regarding the commemoration of the memorable dates and persons of our nation who have joined its glory. But we need to approach, really, objectively. Of course, it's a shame that we're voting, that the absolute majority of us are voting, not knowing what it is and what it says about what we're voting for. We heard the name of the decree, or the law, and we got the team, whatever it was, whatever it was. Therefore, fellow believers, let us give what is involved in this decision. He's going to be 200 years old this year, and it's been forgotten, 65 years of the completion of the reunification of Ukrainian lands and the creation of the Ukrainian state within what it is today, I mean, the Carpathians have forgotten. And so on and so forth. However, Melnik, the organizer of the UN, is remembered, noted, but he is also remembered, noted. And so on and so forth. And the third. And three, one more. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of just a little piece of information. All that Yavorowski's colleague spoke of three times of the Hero of Kožeduba is related to twice the Hero of the Soviet Union of Lavrinenka, who described in the book “Returning to Heaven” the example he describes. It is good that he was reading books at the time, but let him not confuse the authors. And once again, dear colleagues, you want to vote on your case. But if you vote, don't forget about the whole story, not selectively, as you are here on the profile committee that heads the "nationally concerned" committee, you are creating such dates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u110	Yeah, one minute. The statement has been completed. The replica. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, there is such a saying as “The lie gives birth to a lie”. The one who built the electoral campaign on a lie continues to lie now. The faction of the Party of the Regions has prepared a broader decree on the worship of the three times by Hero Kožeduba, who intended to worship on a public scale, to rename the person, to erect a monument, to museums, to assign the name Hero of Ukraine to him, it is broader. It was an alternative, but it was simply not voted for. That's true. I repeat, it is very sad that lies have led to lies in certain political forces, which are at the root of their election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u112	Who else insists on the discussion? Please, please, please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u113	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski. I just respect Adam Ivanovich. There's nothing wrong with me. But, Adam Ivanovich, I knew Lavrinenko very closely. He was, by the way, a member of the National Association of Ukrainian Writers. Because of this, Lavrinenko himself told his creative evening when he heard a lot of writers saying that they had absolutely the same stories. Only these were completely different grandfathers, Adam Ivanovich, and completely different devices.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, no more insistence? That's the offer. I'd like to support you. Let's take this as a basis. And if the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please note, supports, then it is necessary to propose the names it deems necessary by Friday, so that the names it deems necessary will be added and then put to the vote definitively. To remove all these oppositions, we set up a dialogue. That's why I'm offering to take it. put to the vote as a basis. Then the Supreme Council of Ukraine will finally make a decision. Because there is a celebration of the 65th anniversary of Victory in World War II, and the term “The Great Motherland” has not yet been recorded. I didn't hear the research anyway. So let's make sure we have it right. So my proposal, and it corresponds to the Rules, is based on the draft Supreme Council ruling, registration number 5413. [[17:49:23]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Let's do it this way. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Let's say, please, let's ask now, let's make this decision, each faction to give its addition to this project, that's the first. The other one. If they feel that someone who is not acceptable is not a historical person, they should write. We will then, where there is no objection, vote separately and make a decision. We're about to have a fight. Dear colleagues! A report by the Interim Investigative Commission on the investigation of the situation of violations of the Ukrainian Constitution and laws, the adoption of illegal decisions by officials of the Kiev City Council and its implementing body, has been published. The rapporteur is the head of TSK Kirilo Borisovich Kulikov, who proposes such a Rules, honourable colleagues, a ten-minute report, five minutes of question-answer, then discussed in a way that we will consider this issue for 25 minutes. Is there no objection? Thank you. Let's get down to business.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u115	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'll try to report as soon as possible so that you have time to ask questions. But I think today the questions that are going on in Kiev are just the answers. I want to say that this is the second report of the Interim Investigation Commission, the first one in June of this year and the Supreme Council's decision was adopted. According to the petitions of many citizens, many national deputies, law enforcement officials, on February 19, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine established a temporary commission of inquiry into abuses and violations of legislation by officials of the Kyiv City State Administration. This committee worked for a year, worked fruitfully, and all 11 members of the committee worked. Some 50 meetings were held by the Commission, some 500 citizens of Kiev, experts, law enforcement officers, and the prosecution’s office of Kiev took part on board. About a thousand appeals were made to various authorities, a thousand requests to the Kiev City Administration. What I'm trying to say is the most important thing. Today, the city of Kiev is given a second degree of chemical safety. Ukraine’s dangers. Today, there are 40 chemical objects in Kiev that pose a threat to more than a few million Chinese. I want to say that the most dangerous object is the Aeration Station, which carries not only the threat to Kiev, it poses a threat to all of Transnistria, and the commission warned of this. And when the Aeration Station and the Kiev City Administration lit up in the fall, they couldn't do it for two weeks -- she said she was doing it. But the weather was good, because it was raining. And I don't know what's gonna happen next year. And you can talk about many of these objects, perhaps our Kiev bridges that were created, and the last time was looked at 30 years ago. What's going to happen we don't know? Today the uncontrolled destruction of the Kyiv Green Plants is taking place. The President of the United States once said: “I’ve seen many gardens in cities, but I’m seeing a garden for the first time.” Today it's all gone. Today, the European Green Planting Standard in Kiev has been reduced twice for every citizen compared to any city in Europe. Today, the inner waters of the city are polluted. And the Kiev City Administration is creating all the conditions to reform any municipal enterprise that is responsible, and it should answer for that, and not only administratively, but also criminally, it's reorganizing these businesses. The number of garbage dumps in Kiev. We don't know, but it's every yard, it's every street. Today, Kiev is a dumpster. It's a disgrace to Ukraine, it's a shame to be in Europe. What I'm saying is that what's going on with the Dniper Islands today, I want to say that this is a matter for a separate Temporary Investigation Commission. Because Truhan Island has been converted into a brothel. And the island of Zhukov, which is the best, is not like that. Today, transformed into the Truhan Islands brothel today. And the bug's island today, its lands are handed out with all kinds of statements. That I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in Kiev legislation has been violated in virtually every field, starting with the basic law of Ukraine, and ending with the law on animal protection. What's happening in Kiev with animals, what's happening with dogs, it's a shame for Europe. I think that a lot of people who not only treat the soul of the city of Kiev, they treat animals with a soul, and what is going to happen in Kiev today with animals is so much contempt for people and animals is still a question of Europe. That I want to make it up to you. The Kyiv City Administration adopts a decision that does not conform to any law when the Kiev City Chief signs an order for admission to the sessional Hall of the Kyiv Administration, the Kiev City Council of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputies, I do not know what can be commented on on on this side. The fact that Kiev today is the subject of bribing any decisions, any deputies is a fact. Tell me why in the center of Kiev there could be about a half a hectare of land today, it could cost a million rubles, half a hectare of land in the center of the city on institutional street as far as possible. I mean, there's no sphere where there's a system in Kiev today. Kiev is a technology pit, a technology pit in Ukraine, and today it is the capital of Ukraine. But there is not enough time for us to resolve all the questions that this administration will leave to us, our children, and our grandchildren. I believe that there is little time left for her to preside over the city of Kiev. But that ruling proposed by the commission today, the interim commission of inquiry, is neutral. It requires respect for the higher legislative body of the Supreme Council, which voted in favour of the ruling this summer and asked the President of Ukraine to take steps to save the country, to the Cabinet of Ministers, which should do so. So this decision is practically ignored. So the decision made by the Interim Investigation Commission reminds us that today we need to save the capital city of Ukraine, the city of Kiev. I want to say the most. Dear colleagues, today is a great holiday. Today is the festival of the Lord’s water baptism. Today is a cleansing festival, a water purification festival. Today, by our voices, we must cleanse ourselves of this authority. Let's do it on such a big holiday. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to Kiril Kulikov. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u117	Dear Mr. Kulikov, Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Kirovogradščina. I'm a member of our commission you're in charge of. And believe me, I've been on a lot of committees, I've been working on my political biography, but believe me, there was no more productive, pedantic work than there was on our committee. I understand very well that it is impossible to capture what is happening today in Kiev in a few minutes. I'd like to ask you specifically as a lawyer. Please tell me where to get out of this situation. How do you see him? The simplest way, of course, is to turn your head and turn around. But you realize that this is unrealistic today. What is the course of this decision if we vote for it today?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u118	Thank you so much for asking, Vladimir Alexandrovich. You know how we worked. What I'm trying to say is to remind you that this decision was supported by most members of the eleventh committee. Almost all of them supported it, but two votes later withdrew their signatures. I want to say that in this party, it was in the Party of Regions that two people signed and supported these decisions. So it's not a political decision that they didn't support, it's the personal interest of those people who withdrew their signatures. But still, the majority, i.e. 7 of the 11 national deputies, supported this decision. It's about determination. It does not include the requirement for an out - of - turn election. In order to hold elections in Kiev, we need to take two steps, first of all, so that the Kiev city head chooses the majority of Kyiv, not 300 privatized thousands of people to a city that has about 4 million people, most of them 50 percent. It's got to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u119	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u120	And what do we propose? Each official must carry out his duties: to the President, for the time being, to carry out his duties; to the Cabinet of Ministers, to hear the situation immediately and to release those officials, those who were appointed to represent the lawbreakers. Let's start cleaning up the city administration in Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u121	Pavlovski People's Deputy, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you whether that's why the problem in Kiev is cleaning the streets of Kiev out of snow, the problem of filling the city's budget, that all the resources and forces go to distribute packets of expired food. The packets say "Chernowicki" and the postcards for Yanuković. And there's all the power, all the resources, all the money. And it can really take a lot of strength to adopt in the second reading the Law on Elections of the Mayor of Kiev, but it's the capital, the European, the election of the mayor of Kiev in two rounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u123	My friend, I'll give you a quick answer. I agree with you, but most importantly, they steal, they steal. So this administration that works in Kiev is an occupation regime that only has one. One duty is to sell the Kyiv land. And all the other ones, the responsibility, they're kyans, they're the districts, we're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're They're not responsible for anything. They are responsible only for selling land and putting money on their pockets. It's just one thing. And we have to pass the law on duality. And to adopt the law that governs the capital's activities -- the city hero of Kiev, the European law, because the law that governs Kiev today is very outdated, and we know it was passed under one person. Today it must be the person who loves this city, loves Ukraine, loves the capital.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u124	National MP Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u125	Dear Mr. Kirilo, I have understood your position on the election appointment after the law on two rounds of voting has been passed, that is a wise position. Now, in your report, you've stopped on a lot of questions. You didn't stop, maybe I didn't pay attention to the transport problem. I'd like to tell you that the subway in Kiev is not being built, there's not a single copy of this year's budget, even though it's communal property, it's always funded from the city budget. Plus, they're not taking steps to get money from the state budget, plus, over the past year, debt has not been paid to Metrobud employees, and not just Metrobud, but I knew that Kyivmishkbud and other businesses are somehow related to the Kyiv farm complex, plus, teachers are complaining, plus, doctors. I'd like you to be more careful on these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u126	Dear colleague, it was just a report. The report of the Interim Investigation Commission has two hundred pages: the first part reported this summer, and the second part that I report to the prosecution, the president and the government today. It's about transportation, it's about doctors, there's what we're building, for example, a two-month transition, and we're building a five-year-old. We're building a fast tram. The money's already stolen, so we can't build anything. We promise the subway stations -- we can't, and the ones that are are are failing. Because we're in this town. I'm warning you, if we don't change this power, there's a technological catastrophe ahead of us. No matter who takes the position today, it is important that today the President of Ukraine can move to another city, because we will lose Kiev as the capital.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u127	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, you can vote here. So let's think about it, let's express our positions from factions, right? And tomorrow, we'll decide what to do. Bo. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, please, let's go. We made a deal with you, and we decided that by 18.15 we were considering this issue, the Supreme Council agreed. Ten minutes left. Please sign up for the discussion. But we're on our way. Yes, please put your name on the board. Vladimir Yavorowski. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's all right. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u128	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, city of Kirovograd, member of this commission of inquiry. Dear colleagues, here, you know, I think this question is already so obvious. Listen to the sneezes groan. I'm not talking about the snow that was in the capital today. And international observers came and looked at us as the Papuans, a country in which there is nothing at all. I'm not talking about what's going on, let's say, today with culture in Kiev. Practically from the center of the city are all the cultural points that were. In fact, we no longer have any bookstores on our central street today, and we do not actually have any cultural facilities. I'm not talking about how the Kyiv is being criminalized. If there are any things you can then correct, even them out of this deformity that there is today, there are things that will be completely impossible to fix. As is being built today with a colossal taste, with a challenge, call it what you want, the historic part of our capital is being built with you today. I'm not talking about what's in our agenda anymore, and we're going to be discussing this issue beyond politics, beyond the religious misunderstandings, the situation that's been around Kiev-Pecher Lavra, which is now under the full protection of the Kyiv administration. You'd like to see who you want, come look at this right wing of the Kiev-Pecher laurel, look at what are the actual offices built there today on the unique, historical foundations. And when you ask who these offices are, no one can answer, and the city authorities, the city administration, have given permission to do so. Because of this, we are now literally and dependent on the level that we are already being threatened by the UNESCO Directorate today that we can be, like harmful cats thrown out with Laura, along with Sofia, whose surroundings are now being built, and you know that UNESCO decides that there is a buffer zone about a mile away. Nothing can be built in this area, no repairs can even be done without UNESCO's permission. The Kyiv authorities are absolutely not paying any attention to it literally under the direction of Sofia, our famous Sofia with you, the most expensive, practically what we have today, is building on the street of Potter, building this house around which so huge passions are being built. Because, indeed, we have today, it has happened, decades later, a good decade after the declaration of independence and so on, we have here today, my phrase has already been repeated here, when I said that we have occupation power in Kiev, other than this one, it's also marauder absolutely, where everything is sold out of the hammer and no one is responsible for it. And the fact that they all went during these snowfalls into the warm land is another proof. We ask you to support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u129	Thank you. National Deputy Bobilov, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u130	Alexander Bobilov, faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", People's Self-Defense. Dear colleagues, we all see the terrible things that are going on in Kiev today. The Independence Course is flooded with dirty snow, in which the country’s capital can still be seen, look at the building blocks that break construction standards. The land that is the sanctuary of Ukraine is distributed. Transport system. People stand in line -- wild traffic. And that's all possible in that case, because there's no general supervision of the prosecutor's office at the level it should be. I was once on a board meeting where I reported to the deputy prosecutor of Kiev -- general phrases, a set of words, some criminal cases that don't fit in with reality and have nothing to do with it. So, your honor, I have, I would like to ask the prosecution's report to the Supreme Council of Prosecutors of Kiev with a proper report on all these issues. Thank you for your attention. But I still have time, so I'd like to tell Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u131	Yuri Carmazin, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u132	Thank you, colleagues. Dear National Deputies, George Carmazin. I want you to hear the concern that was expressed by the entire commission of inquiry that Kiev could be in danger of technological security. It's not the city, it's the people. I'm not talking about a glorious city with a multi-year history. I want to point out that we don't have a report from the city's attorney's office, something she does within the limits of opportunity, but when she does something, and now the mayor of the city, his deputies and his deputies, and the small, small students who still have to learn, who are going to run the city, and who are actually selling it to the highest government orders by the president of the state, it's very difficult in such a situation. So I ask you to include the report of the Attorney General of Ukraine and to do so immediately this week.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u133	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u134	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Like the entire Ukrainian people, the whole of Poltavščina loves the beautiful city of Kiev and Kyiv. But what's happening with Kiev is not only frightening those who live here in Kiev, Ukraine, and, as they said, we're already like the Papuans. That's how we look like parrots. I would not want us to talk so harshly about the Papuans as we do about the tribe. I would like to say that what has been happening in Kiev and Ukraine since 1991 has made us Papuans, starting in 1991 in Kiev and in power, and the power that makes us who we are. And we said what power and what it does to people. I'm talking to the Chinese and I'm talking to my colleagues, and I want to say that the faction of the Ukrainian Company has always been consistent in its actions. And to remind you, honourable Chinese, honourable colleagues, when you remember in this Hall the decision to hold the temporary elections in Kiev was taken, the faction address of the Ukrainian national deputies was the bag of Chinese letters, what you are doing, what a beautiful mayor we have, what a wonderful situation we have in Kiev, and you have voted in favour of this decree. You had such a chance, your own dignitaries, to support then all those who react negatively to what is happening in Kiev, with your own hands, with your own actions to bring that order into line, but you didn't want to agree to it, and you voted once again to be the mayor of Chernewsky. Today, the speaker, reporting, and on the rostrum, as the chairman of the interim commission of inquiry, spoke of many shameful phenomena and, in particular, said what was going on in Kiev today, when these clusters. I want to say that not only in Kiev, but all over Ukraine, people couldn't get to the polling stations. It's a judgment to all the authorities. I would like to say this: “Dear Chinans, let us support what has been stated in the report of the interim commission of inquiry, and the faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote for it.” And I know that there's a decree on the holding of the temporary elections in Kiev that needs to be maintained immediately and that this decision and that we finally have order in the capital of our Ukraine, and then, similar cranberry in many, many cities in Ukraine, we need to show them where we need to go: play the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. National MP Blackwill, one minute, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the serious situation with the budget of Kiev. The budget for Kiev, which was planned for 16 billion dollars last year, was at least implemented at the beginning of December. Not up to 7 billion dollars in income and about 6 billion dollars in expenses, so the problem of Kiev is a complex absolute problem, and we really have to take it very seriously. Moreover, I would like to point out once again that this transport problem that has now arisen in Kiev and is ready to paralyze the capital of Ukraine, not just a big city, it requires not just billions, but tens of billions, and it is also a very serious problem. So the interaction between central government and the city is very important, and here is our great responsibility, whether we can solve this issue properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. That is the offer to make. Now I've asked the Chief Legal Authority to work on the draft decision. And I'd also like to ask the head of the commission, because there are some questions here that raise questions. Well, for example, to go to the courts about the failure of the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs to comply with the Supreme Council's ruling on this number. Whom should I turn to? Next, create a special government body. Well, we can't run a special government office. Well, there are a number of issues that need to be worked out and brought into line with laws and a valid legislative base, and we need to look at dates. Some of the dates have already lost their meaning. So I'd ask you to do it this way, and tomorrow we'll go back to making a decision on the matter under discussion, right? Please, Kirilo Kulikov, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u138	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you very much, colleagues! Indeed, the decision needs to be worked out because there is a question of dates and because the decision was made in November, so there is a question of dates. As for the creation of an organ, we need to think about this because Kiev is an emergency. And this situation has to be solved in some way. But it's a question of how it's properly prescribed legally. I want to say that this is an urgent issue today, because thousands of citizens, the "lovers", who have voted for the once-acting Kiev mayor, turn to trauma every day. The fact that there is a very low vote in Kiev today is also due to the fact that we don't clean up in Kiev streets, and that's why we can't figure out who we're going to pick just because we have piles, ice on the streets, people falling down, people crash. So I'm very grateful that tomorrow morning we can all show our stand to the Chinese: who really is protecting the interests of the Chinese. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The solution to the question under discussion is tomorrow, because now we have no right, time is up. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll start the meeting tomorrow at 10 o'clock, scheduled for Wednesday. Thank you.
