ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u1	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that they can continue their work. Please prepare for registration and turn on the "Council" system. [[16:01:27]] 429 cards registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We are continuing our consideration of the draft Law on the Fund for Guaranteeing Credit Sharing Investments. Please sign up for the performance. Please put your name on the information board. Oleg Zarubinsky, next will be Al Alexandrovska. It's from everyone, from the people. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, the very idea of creating a trust fund, I wouldn't say it's relevant, it's long overdue. Now there's enough going on right now, I wouldn't say, interesting, but very ugly, and they're telling me, when for many investors, these loans today are actually the same trusts that I was talking about in my interview with the reporter, which I've been talking about in the '90s. What benefits are there for such a statement? Many of the managers of these credit unions are hiding today, disappearing, not paying money to the people who have invested money in these credit unions. So they're acting exactly like the organizers of those sad, not famous, but sad, sad trusts of the 1990s. On the other hand, it seems to me that we need to take a deeper look at this problem here, because in Ukraine, the often densely formal managers of these credit unions who are hiding from people today and leaving these people, the investors, are not the same as those who own these credit unions. And so it seems to me that the Supreme Council, in addition to obviously contributing to this institutional plan to the return of credit-backed investors through the fund, is the sense of creating this fund, obviously, because if it were a unit in the general fund, that would happen, you know what would be the share and what would be the result, and in fact, the lack of efficiency results. But to me, this bill, for example, has led me to the problem of dealing with Vladimir Mikhailovich in a broader way. It is possible in the form of parliamentary hearings, perhaps in the form of some investigative work, what is allowed under the Supreme Council Rules to be a temporary commission of inquiry. Because once again, what I want to point out is that everything that seems to be around us today has been created by credit unions -- it's total fraud, in Russian, "fraud" with human money. And if you have any more control, remember how much attention has been given to the situation of bank deposits, deposits, and so on, no one is doing so. So by supporting the bill as an idea of a bill, I think we need to put it more broadly in the walls of the Supreme Council. Thank you. I said it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u3	Alla Alexandrovska, the Communist faction passes on the right to speak to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, the next to speak to Platonic Alexi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u4	Dear colleagues! Dear voters. No doubt we should thank the author for taking the initiative to raise it because the problem exists, the problem is extremely acute. The problem is acute, for those who want to warm their hands organize and benefit from such associations, and the state does not then bring any help to these people. But as a whole, in support of a good idea, I am critical of its implementation. See, therefore, the honourable colleagues who are being offered. We're proposing to create a state specialized institution. What is it? I don't know. But if it's a state institution, it has to be financed from the state budget. Allow me, on what basis should the state budget be responsible for fraud? Only on one basis is he funding the prosecutor's office, the B.S.A., the D.I.D., other law enforcement agencies that have to deal with their punishment, their disclosure and so on and so forth, that's understandable. And that the State should guarantee the return of deposits by its special government institution to those who contributed to the union is totally unrelated. Come on, look. The fund is an economic institution that does not have a goal of profit, this is article 8 speaking. We read article 21. “The source of the fund’s formation, including the income derived from the financing of the fund in government securities”. Is it income or not income? Is this already a commercial or a non-commercial activity? Without a doubt, it's already a business. Income from deposits held by the National Bank of Ukraine and so on and so forth. I mean, once again, it's a good idea, it needs to be implemented. But unfortunately, I don't want to blame the author, well, maybe someone wants to create an additional institution, I don't mean it's the author. Clearly, someone approached him with such an initiative, let's introduce an appropriate bill, because such a government specialized agency can heat up their hands, sorry, more. Like those who organize these associations. So, really, I support my colleague Zarubinsky, that this is a matter that needs to be discussed widely, that there is a great deal of publicity, and let the foundation be created by those who create these links. Indeed, based on the activities of these communities, let there be a fund, just as there is a fund to guarantee the savings that there is. So, let's send it out for further work, this bill, and it's going to eventually have to be adopted, but by making substantial changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u5	Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u6	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Well, of course, it's a positive idea to adopt this law, starting with some kind of macroeconomic approach that the state should be doing in terms of regulating credit unions, those citizens' funds that went to these credit unions and ending up with just as practical an approach as the letters from citizens now go to me personally, I'm conducting a letter with Suslov and his committee on these unions and again completely inefficient correspondence. So anyway, that's the positive thing that the author's offering. With regard to the comments to this text of the bill. Current credit associations are regulated by whether their activities are regulated by the relevant Ukrainian Credit Association Act. This law does not provide for the creation of a trust fund. And the bill proposed by the author does not make appropriate changes to the bill on what such a fund should be created. This is the first major observation. Next. According to article 2, paragraph 2, of the project, a share in credit unions. The fund’s credit unions are mandatory. Again, in the same law that exists now and which regulates the activity of credit unions called “The Credit Associations” such compulsory participation is not prescribed. I mean, well, I think the law as a whole has to be approved, accepted as a basis, but there's work to be done on the second reading, correcting these inadequacies and clarifying certain positions, and in general it will be beneficial to our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u7	Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Next, of course. Stanislaw Arzhivetin instead of Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u8	Dear fellow national MPs! Honorable depositors of credit unions and honourable voters of ours! It's said that the bank is such an amazing institution that lends to the umbrella, but when it rains, it immediately asks for the umbrella to be returned. Credit unions are somewhere in the same cut. I think that we're going to have another time, that is, Ukrainian parliamentarians, and we're going to run back and forth the problem once more when it's actually happened, the main thing has already happened, and then we're going to take it back in time. God be with him, so be it, but this time it happens. There's probably our fault, because, let's say, to me, as an MP, I didn't know how these relationships worked. I've heard a lot about them in the West, in America, in Canada, in Australia, in Brazil, where Ukrainians, Ukrainian immigrants, in these communities, have survived, in fact, built houses, bought land, taught their children, and quite a cult of these credit unions. Something similar, of course, moved us to do the same. Today we stand like a broken trough because of the two facts that I am. Two facts that I know, for example: one in Kirovograd, where the credit union of the city of Kirovograd fell. How did you fall? It's very simple. A man was loaned without bail, and he was given a loan if I was not mistaken for 7 million or 8 million dollars. It's such a farmer. Now he's being searched for my MP's letters. He took that money and didn't come back and run. We have a similar situation in Kiev. As far as I know you've been writing this letter, I've been approached, probably as well as Plotnik's investors, as far as I know. That's the same. By the way, the entire Ukrainian intelligence has been crippled by completely literate pensioners who have, please, taken away and placed in this credit union. How Did It End?Oh, my God! One cheater has released half a million contingent units. That's it. And the match went off. Now the people of Suslov are working there and they are recognized as bankrupt, which is absolutely impossible to do. Because if bankruptcy is declared, it's over. All these people are out on the street. I can imagine these. I listened to these miserable people. One of them was a four - year - old teacher who was carrying, giving me, a pot for that, a crippled person in America, earning that money and putting it in the community. Because of this, my soul is now divided and my position is split. On the one hand, I'm in favour of getting these people back together and helping them. But again, the question arises. So we're going to take all the crooks that did this today from the state budget, so we're going to take it and cover it all up. There's something unfair here, and I'm the idea behind it, and I'm supporting it, maybe in the first reading. But let's think about how to go on putting it all on the shoulders of taxpayers, I think it's foolish and unfair.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u9	Stanislaw Mikhailovich Arzvetin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u10	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine!” Ladies and gentlemen, the question of creating a fund is the right question. It just goes like this: what is the status of this fund, and what law should this fund be in? I think the most optimal solution to this question was proposed by the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which said that we should not have a separate law, and all of the provisions of this bill should be implemented in a separate chapter's credit union law and written these standards. As far as state status is concerned, that's the most important question. I think that the existence in Ukraine of two people's investment guarantee funds with almost authentic identical laws is some kind of nonsense. Among other things, this bill repeats almost 100 percent of the Population Investment Guarantee Act. Next. I think we're going to provoke the situation that we're going to have to create similar funds for both the insurance market and non-state pension funds, for pawnbrokers and all that. We're going to have two dozen similar government institutions. Next. If you take a world experience, among other things, in countries where there are similar models of credit that do not pay taxes to the State. And when receivables and creditors in one person, the state does not provide assistance to such credit unions. Funds are formed on cooperative principles. Among other things, there are such funds today because the authorized authority has undertaken to store such funds in credit unions. The Association itself, the National Association has already created a similar fund. So they are, you just have to make it right in the credit union law. What do credit unions get as a result? Everyone was waiting for this bill to be discussed that it would be 50 million from the state as an initial contribution. It didn't happen. But we recorded that credit unions would be obliged to pay 1 percent immediately and then another 0.5 percent over the year, that's almost 35 million dollars. Is it possible to pay the guarantee fund in credit unions today? No, it's not. Because the problem assets are now 30 percent. Among other things, there are three bills in our Supreme Council today that are similar to and around the topic of the creation of the Guarantee Fund. I think the best and optimal option is that we should thank the author and ask him to take this bill for further elaboration, conceptually redesigned it, and these wonderful things he proposed to the Credit Society Act. By the way, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a letter was sent to your address by the Odeschen credit unions saying that the bill was premature in crisis conditions. It's not possible for credit unions. There is no State support in this bill, there is a burden on credit unions. This bill should be sent to the author for further processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, who else is insisting on the performance? Please, Klimenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In general, when it comes to investor protection as consumers, it is important to look at the whole financial sector and the financial services sector as a whole. Yes, of course, much could be done to change the Credit Cooperation Act. But what surprised me today? What that lobby, which represents very widely at all levels, the state-level interests of the banking sector, they want this law not to be adopted. Why? Because, yes, we really do have and there is a fund to guarantee the contributions of individuals. But when such proposals were considered at the level of the government, when the concept that I was talking about was approved in June 2006 was approved, bankers were not allowed close. Who, as they say, are members of a credit cooperative? So if we're talking about today that we have more than 250 billion depositors and deposits, and we're talking about about about 3 billion deposits of credit institutions, but 2 million people are waiting for our state support and protection, I can only say, yes, it's really about 8 percent of those credit institutions that are unscrupulous, which are using all of the state-given opportunities to raise these funds and cheat people. And on the part of the State, especially the law enforcement agencies, there were no such activities. It is through the Deposit Guarantee Fund that the same credit institutions that provide such services will be cleared through manipulation as external advertising, such as unscrupulous advertising. The important thing is that we will be able to clean up because the members of these credit institutions are necessarily involved. And first of all, if we say at the expense of the state. Oh, no! We predicted that as much as 1 percent, and to regular capital 0.25 twice a year, that's exactly where this market is going to go towards overcoming this internal crisis. Now it's about how the state is going to help. But on the same general terms as lending, but on a return basis. If you say the state gave them -- I'm talking to Stanislav Mikhailovich -- the state gave them a lot. First of all, they don't pay taxes and that's why we're here today. I'm asking you to support this market today, and the main thing is to support those defenseless types of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u13	Dear National Deputies, the discussion of the draft Law on the Fund for Guarantee of Credit Shares has been completed. [[Registration number 3265]] The committee proposes to accept it as a basis for further consideration, taking into account the suggestions that it offers. What, what? What, a report from the committee? I didn't get it. We've already discussed it, we've finished the question. Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? I'm putting the draft ruling to the vote. Ukraine's loan fund bill, please vote on the basis. [[16:21:09]] For 155 The decision is not taken. For re-reading, please, this is the offer. Please vote. One, registration number 3265. [[16:21:35]] For 274 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Preventing and Resisting the Legalization of the Proceeds of Crime, is now under review, with comments from the President of Ukraine. Here are some suggestions. Since the committee has not yet considered this bill, it is now before the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. And there was a second suggestion that the committee would follow: to send this law to the Venice Commission, as well as to relevant international institutions, and to wait for the conclusion that they would give us, and then finally determine for the purpose of this law because of the limitations of human rights. So there are two proposals: the first is to look at it in order, and the second is to send it to two institutions, so that they can give their opinion, and then go back to the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your Honor, the colleagues we have here have come to a meeting in the Presidium, I have such a request, I will put this proposal to the vote and you will vote for it to amend the law along with the remarks made by the President of Ukraine to the Venice Commission. FATF, let them express their view of this law, then consider it in its complex. [[B in m in s a l in]] Anatoly Gritsenko, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] But it is a law that has been passed, and what can it be like there first?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, sounds enticing. But it wavered that we don't just want to work. Let's face it, we have 46 million and only tens of thousands of officials on the Cave Hills. We ourselves are unable to determine without the Venice Commission whether it represents the protection of human rights or not? I am firmly opposed to anyone deciding for our Parliament what is in line with our Constitution, our principles and principles. In principle, it's against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, let's do it this way. It's about whether or not we're going to consider this law right now, it's not going to beat the veto, and we're not going to adopt the law. That's what it's like for us to be forty. Is it better to leave 46 million people in uncertainty, or should we talk about officials if we're unable to make a decision? I'm voting on this proposal, please. [[16:25:15]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The first deputy to the Head of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine Slapak, please, has the floor to put forward the proposals of the President of Ukraine before this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u16	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, no doubt the problem of laundering and preventing their use in financing terrorism is extremely relevant. I would like to remind myself that the basic legislation on this issue so far is 40 recommendations from the main and nine special FATFs. By the end of 2002, Ukraine had adopted a basic law to prevent and combat the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, and had made the necessary changes to Ukrainian legislation, after which it had been excluded from the so-called “grey list” and was still operating under normal state-of-the-art regime. I would like to point out, honourable national deputies, that FATF regularly conducts an evaluation of the implementation by countries of its recommendations. The official document on such an assessment, which took place in March 2009, is a report on Ukraine's detailed assessment of the third round of international peer reviews, prepared by the Committee of Experts on Measures to Combat the Legalization of Crime Income, called Manivel. It notes that in Ukraine as a whole, FATF recommendations have been implemented, the necessary changes have been made to a whole range of laws, the essential responsibilities of financial institutions, including customer identification and documentation. The report identifies the need to make further changes to legislation regarding the implementation of six of the 49 recommendations. But it is very important that honourable national MPs make progress in implementing the FATF recommendation on countering terrorist financing not to turn into an attack on citizens' fundamental freedoms on property integrity, as well as the preservation of professional secrecy, the freedom to engage in entrepreneurial activities. A broad body aimed at combating terrorism could not be allowed to create a police body that would replace a number of other organs and deal with tax evasion to assess the content of the activities and financial situation of operators. This has happened, unfortunately, as a result of the adoption by the Supreme Council on November 6, 2009, of changes to the basic law. The adoption procedure itself took place in an aural regime under constant threat that tomorrow we will be included in the "black list". Regrettably, they were not heard by the sessionary Hall of Warnings to the National Deputies of Shevchuk, Zarubinski, Klukkowski, Karmazin on the inadmissibility of a “fire” approach to such an important law and on the unconstitutionality of its individual provisions. In particular, I would like to emphasize the extraordinary secrecy of this issue. On an official request for documentary evidence of the statements of the holder of the monitoring and confirmation of the FATF assessment that it is the recommendation that Ukraine be accepted, the President's secretariat received a formal notice. In addition, I would like to stress this separately, by allowing myself to violate legislation not to report to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or to report on my travel to the FATF meetings, particularly in June and December 2009. As far as I know, MPs, members of the profile committee, have also not been able to obtain the relevant documents from the holdingfindering. In fact, there has been a situation where when we discuss this law, we have to believe in the word of an official, the direction of a holder of supervision, which, when we adopt the law, will receive extremely high powers. This raises suspicion about what the lobbyists actually set themselves: to bring legislation in line with the FATF requirements or to create an alternative to Henprocuratorship and other law enforcement agencies on the basis of a government under control and a dexterity monitoring. With regard to specific comments to the new law, they can be classified into three groups. Group one. This is a provision of the law that does not correspond to the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine, and that is why the veto was applied. Another group. Positions that do not take into account FATF’s main comments to Ukraine and therefore do not take into account the risk of applying sanctions to Ukraine. Third. Inadequate situations go beyond the scope of the FATF recommendation. I'm going to stop a little bit more on each of these groups. Group one. As a specially authorized body, holdingfinmonitoring is given wide powers to gather information from authorities and primary financiers, help books, copies of documents, including those containing a commercial secret, information about the participants in the operation. In violation of the requirements of Article 19 of the Constitution, the law in effect establishes the accountability of the specially authorized body of other state-owned financiers, including the National Bank of Ukraine, in particular in part of the requirements for the submission by the National Bank of a commission of securities, holding services, other subjects of state funded access to their automated systems, the obligation to provide virtually any information, including the removal of primary documents, free of charge. The law gives the specially authorized body the right to determine its own, and I want to emphasize this by the legal and regulatory acts of the risk criteria for primary monitoring subjects. The rules of conduct of business entities and particularly of citizens. This does not correspond to the first part of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which the rights and freedoms of the person and citizen, the guarantees of these rights and freedoms, the basic obligations of the citizen are determined solely by law and only by the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I mean, it's an unprecedented, honorable colleague, an accident, because in all other cases, it's the law that establishes the risks of doing one or the other transactions. Next. The law provides for the limitation of the bank’s customer’s right to manage the money at his expense through the suspension of financial transactions, which I emphasize from the law: “ may be linked, i.e. on the basis of assumptions alone, to the legalisation of income or the financing of terrorism. [[“The Ending Position”]] This may lead to abuse in this area and to unjustified restrictions on property rights, physical and legal persons, which are not in line with the constitutional principle of non-violence of private property rights. Moreover, the law of the financier, their officials, and I would like to emphasize this, bears no responsibility for the harm done to legal and physical persons in connection with their service obligations. In fact, the law discredits the concept of professional secrecy of notaries, auditors, lawyers, and so forth, contrary to the FATF’s recommendations, as it sets out to provide information on operations, even in spite of the need to keep a secret. As for the second group. Failure to comply with FATF’s claim to Ukraine. The names are only separate in order to be included in the Rules. In the last FATF report in Ukraine, which was approved in May 2009, we received a negative assessment of six of the 49 FATF recommendations. [[not fully responding]] The authors should focus on these very weak chains, but the law does not respond to most of the FATF claims on the six recommendations mentioned. In particular, FATF experts insist on giving priority to the following. First. Fitting into the UN convention the definition of the composition of crime, the laundering of money in the Criminal Code. The definition as a separate crime of financing terrorism, however, does not change the Criminal Code. The other one. The law does not take into account the recommendations for the criminalization of such basic punishments as confiscation of all pre-emptive crimes and the definition of pre-emptive crimes such as insider trading, market manipulation, and so on. Thirdly, it is now necessary to verify the information provided by the client, requires FATF, according to the nature and purpose of the questionable operations. Our law went in a different direction, obliging the client to obtain information about the contents of his activities and his financial situation. At the same time, the third group, I believe, considers the President of Ukraine to be inadequate in the FATF recommendations. The most violent of them are two, I'll remind them. FATF does not require the inclusion of a number of primary financiers, including all physical entities, business entities and legal entities involved in cash transactions, provided that the amount of such a financial operation is equal to or greater than 100,000 dollars. FATF and this is the most plausible thing for me to do, does not require an increase in the time limit for cost-effective financial transactions to 17 days, so think about it. Any official who works in a bank or in another primary funded entity on the basis of his own suspicion can freeze for 17 days any transaction that takes place in this bank. Furthermore, FATF does not require that a specially authorized body be granted the status of a law enforcement authority. The law provides for this, and FATF does not require this or recommends that he have the right to establish his educational institutions, etc. Taking this into account, please support the position of the Head of State and reject the law amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization of Laundering of the Proceeds Received by Crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, if you have a question for the reporter, please sign up. I'd like you to put your name on the National MP board. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u18	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear reporter, please tell me how many workers, peasants, pensioners, low-income workers apply this law on the laundering of these incomes, and how many of these categories of people, if you have statistics, have spent the very money on financing terrorism in the world, or in Ukraine, or do I not know where?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u19	I hope that the laws in force, the one now adopted by the Supreme Council, do not have anything to do with the categories of people you are talking about. Because this is about legal persons and individuals whose turnover is at least 100,000 dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u20	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u21	Yuri Carmazin. Dear reporter! Of course, part of it, I'm dividing part, much of what you've just said, that's what the President said, that's what I said when the law was passed. We were in a great hurry when we accepted him, if you remember, several times we came to expel judges from law enforcement. But, thank God, they have ruled out, truthfully, they have also set up ministers there, they are today political leaders, and other persons who are not politicians. The point of my question is this. You ask the question radically -- just destroy the law, and everything, and it wasn't there. Maybe we should do it a little differently. Maybe you're ready to propose with the editorial committee a little bit different to change it so we just don't go through this again, because it's clear that we need to go through it again. In such a situation, the veto is unlikely to be overtaken by anyone in this room -- after your report on the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u22	Thank you. Mr. Yuri. First of all, I want to emphasize what I said from the outset: the law is extremely important and must be adopted. Moreover, I have certainly criticized the law in this veto report function. Yet, 70 percent of the law actually has proper and correct standards. We have put forward our proposals to the committee for this law with proposals that we think should be put forward, and are ready to work together on this law and adopt it as quickly as possible. Thank you. We sent him to the committee, we're on the Supreme Council committee, he's in the profile. Our plate, if we have to hand it over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u23	National MP Blackwolf faction "Our Ukraine"
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u24	Mr. Alexander, well, you've made serious remarks to the President, but I would like to know your point of view before the Supreme Council's offer to consult the Venice Commission, perhaps with other international bodies, is the first. Now the second one. Of course, for any good reason, we can't break the Constitution, we have a way of changing it, then we can work, or we can do it. We don't have a second option, and in this respect, these observations are entirely, well, worthy. But briefly, if you can, as you might see, well, in general, I understand it, not the law is important, but the issue is important. And how would you decide to see, this year's solution to this issue, what law, what should be the main issue, and how would you put it all together to see the perspective of interaction with FatF? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u25	Thank you. Mr. Alexander, once again, I want to emphasize, the FATF believes, in any case, that its monitoring committee, that the legislation that is in force today in Ukraine, which is valid, is in general consistent with all the principles and rules of the FATF. Nothing bad will happen if we work together for a month or two to improve this legislation. I am convinced that no one is going to include us in the "black lists" right now. But since the law is extremely thin and really applies to the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, it is necessary to look very closely at these very norms. And I fully support what the Head of the Supreme Council proposes, to consult with these important institutions that are now responsible in Europe for the correct interpretation of citizens' rights and freedoms, and the Venice Commission, and the FATF itself. So I don't think it would interfere with our work on the committee to send these papers there for appropriate consultation. I want to pay attention to just one thing, and I would think that under any circumstances, when we're doing this kind of consultation, and they're the most effective ones, they're live consults, not just trading on paper. To get there, not only to the representatives of the Derjffinmonitoring, with all due respect for them, but also to the members of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u26	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u27	so that they can hear the argument themselves, and perhaps this will help us to produce together the most appropriate document, which will then be adopted by the Supreme Council. With this draft of the bill, I am convinced that we will find consensus in its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u28	Thank you. Questions and answers have been completed. Please, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u29	So if there's no committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, why don't we talk about this? Dear National Deputies, the Rules do not provide for discussion, the commission was to consider. So I will now put to the vote a motion by the President of Ukraine to reject the law. The other thing you didn't support is if the law isn't rejected, I'm going to put a veto vote if the veto isn't overrun, the law will be rejected. With motive? Please, Kiril Kulikov, then Grigory Smythuch and Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u30	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee should give professional consideration to this law. So until the committee has considered this issue, let's gather a committee, give professional consideration, without anything else, 70 percent of this law is right, said the president's representative. So let's not make the law worse, it's FatF, it's international. And what I want to say is that this is a sacred cow -- a bank secret that the Nazbank commission worked for the MPs, which didn't have access to this bank secret, stole all the money, and such a holy cow. Let's take it to the committee, let's work professionally.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u31	Please, Gregory Smythech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u32	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, unfortunately, I failed to ask the President's representative a question, but, at the same time, I've been trying for several years to get statistics from the National Bank that we're building with a gold currency. The National Bank answers, it's a mystery. At the same time, the National Bank freely provides this information to the International Monetary Fund and other organizations, including the law that we are considering today. That's the first question. And the second question. I have to see Mr. Schlapak and Mr. President, and why Ukraine has 60 percent of the shadow economy, and we know that 60 percent of these substantial revenues would be extra if they were legalized in Ukraine. Why does Ukraine do nothing in this regard? Why do we allow all international organizations to control us, and inside we do nothing to improve our situation? If we don't make this concept completely in ourselves, in the country, and we'll always agree with our foreign, so to speak, to the authorities that either guide us, or control us, we have order in the banking and financial system.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u33	Thank you. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, then Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u34	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, if we want to look respectably in a civilized world, it is civilized to look like it must be in Ukraine. Another issue is not about the law itself, but about its contents. And there's really a lot of questions here. The issue is very serious with regard to the adoption of the Act and is even more serious with regard to its implementation. And that's why, in my opinion, here's a case where you take seven times and cut it once. And I would not be cutting off or deciding on this law today definitively until we get the Committee's decision, and until we do, we will not get it, and rightly said, and Mr. Arzhvitin supported it, he initiated the question, we will not get a resolution or conclusions from the Venice Commission on the content of the law. That was the right thing to do. There's no rush here. It's not just the law that's needed, it's the law of the law of the law of which it's useful, yes. Effect. But not when we report, but when the law harms the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u35	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u36	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that there are a lot of banking professionals in the room who are very familiar with financial schemes and so forth. And that's not what I'm going to be talking about right now, it's what I'm going to be talking about, it's what I'm going to be talking about. It ends now with nothing being voted on. The veto is not overpowered, nor is the law rejected. You'll see what happens. And then the question is, what's more important is the result or the process? If we have an important result, and if everyone understands that there is a similar meaning, I emphasize, a similar but perfect law should be, then we need to come up with that proposal so that an important international institution can come to a conclusion. And there's nothing wrong with that. Or we have these double standards, when we need something personal or corporate, we need to listen to what the Venice Commission has to say. When we don't have to, we treat her so, you know, cool. I think we should go back to the proposal and get the expert conclusion between.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. In order to preserve this law and at the suggestion of representatives of the committee and at the suggestion of the Chief Legal Authority, I have made a request that now, in view of the fact that this law is not being considered in fact, it be sent to these two international institutions and that the law be preserved at the same time. They didn't want to take this decision, they went to the matter essentially, they considered this issue essentially, and now, according to the Rules, we have to put it to a vote in this order: the President's proposal to reject the law; there's no going to be a second proposal, a veto; there's no going to be a vote to put it to the committee; let the committee continue to work on this law. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u38	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, everything is absolutely right and nothing to worry about. In fact, we need the law, but it's not the law that's written right now, because it's not the law, because it's the handing over of one organ that goes under the Cabinet of Ministers all the powers of all the other ministries and offices, including the ministries and the authorities that are supposed to do it. You can't do that. To experience the fact that we are now eliminating the law, well, what. Who forbids us to start February 2 or 3, or February 5th to consider a bill in a new edition, a new law. This problem must be resolved, but not as it is now settled. Because as long as we go to international institutions, it'll be six months. And we can look at a new version of the law in February, and of course we will support it. Let us now support the Chief of the Supreme Council and do as he suggests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u39	There's no other offer? I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of Proceeds by Crime. [[Registration number 3062]] [[16:48:22]] For the five of us. The law is not rejected. The next proposal is to beat the veto of the President of Ukraine into the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of the Proceeds Received by Crime. [[Registration number 3062]] [[16:48:57]] For-162 The decision is not taken. Now the second offer. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 112, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 21, communists – 26, "Litvina Block" – 0, non-fractional – 2. And now for the third proposal: to refer it to the committee to finalize the law and bring it up for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the first week of the next session. Please vote. [[16:49:41]] For 275 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Ukraine, may I have your attention? – appointed a member of the Central Electoral Commission Karpuntsov Valerija Vitaliyovich. Please, calm down. I'll let you know, because we have an agreement as soon as the submission is made, we'll look at it immediately. Five factions made their proposals to the President of Ukraine, and the President of Ukraine made his decision. Karpuntsov Valerij Vitaliyovich is a deputy director of the National Agency for Foreign Investment and Development. [[One minute]] He was born on June 15, 78. Since 2007, a well - deserved lawyer in Ukraine. Higher education, graduated from the National University of Kyiv, Taras Shevchenka. Master. Speciality: “Justice”. These are the main ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u40	The people ask, What year was he born?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u41	Born in 1978. It was the President of Ukraine who filed the application. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, he has such a right, so let us. Fill out the vacancy, I'll put it to a vote. Please, from the faction. From each faction per minute. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, according to this, you can see a decent person, because if I'm not mistaken, he's become a well-deserved lawyer by the time he's 20 years old. Perhaps the candidate is worth the attention. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, right, the President and only the President have the right to submit and submit nominations, but the President's candidature is submitted by factions. That's why I'm asking the question: what faction has caused the President to put this candidacy into the session room? Because it's not just the desire of the faction, it's its legal right under the Central Electoral Commission Act, which the factions offer to the President, and the President then proposes to the Supreme Council. And so we're wondering what faction has offered the President this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u43	Dear National Deputies! The point is, if the Central Electoral Commission's mandate is terminated in time, then the faction will only be filed. And if one member of the Central Electoral Commission changes because of different circumstances, the factions are recommended. Faction proposals are recommended. Therefore, the President of Ukraine took advantage of this point and submitted his candidacy, to which he is fully entitled. The right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on this. Gregory Smythech, please. And then Oles Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u44	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, well you know the importance of this Central Electoral Commission body, and you know that we don't have any misunderstandings in the Central Electoral Commission or the charges that we expect on February 7th, then of course there should be a person who, in my opinion, has at least an experience in some state or other institution in his own profile, because there is no time to learn. That's the first question. The second question. You didn't tell us at all, you didn't tell us what internship and where this person worked, except for some foreign investment we don't have at all. [[Because I don't see the autobiography myself, I don't see the application personally.]] That's why I think it's not entirely appropriate to apply for such an important position, you know. And you don't have to keep us here for fools, both on the President's side. Please consider this question, or report it essentially, or remove it from consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, we're just exchanging thoughts, and then I'm going to read it full, that's her. a little service list. And you'll know. Oleg Zarubinski. Then there was Andrew Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u46	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u47	Please! Well, now we're gonna figure it out! Well, don't shout, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u48	You know, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you said the President of Ukraine was right. There is a right, and there is a moral. There's absolutely no morals. Because it was publicly announced that a candidate, a candidate from a faction that was not represented on the Central Electoral Commission, would be a parliamentary faction. It was done in public, it was done on a case-by-case basis. So I think it's an act of absolute immorality that testifies to the same moral condition of the person who did this: lack of morals.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u49	Please, Andrew Cosemiakin. Then the novel Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, I understand that we may have been working this week without any regulations, even in the Constitution we don't look or respect. Because today we have been making our own proposals, which should have been legally considered in the hall for three months. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich does not bet. Now we've got some documents, we can't see them, some kind of person. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you didn't have to believe the President's word on Tuesday and put the matter to a vote. You know, because you see, as they say, the answer comes out of the way. So please, tomorrow morning, we need to see them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u52	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, that's what I actually took the floor for because it's one of those rare cases where I agree almost a hundred percent with the MP who was speaking of the faction of the Party of the Regions. In fact, I do not remember such a case when a staff issue was considered in the session hall, the members of the Central Electoral Commission, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not have the opportunity to look at a person in the eye. Even if you have materials that apply to the candidature itself. So I think it's a perfectly normal proposal, which was made by the representative of the faction of the Party of Regions, which I support and encourage all of us to support, i.e. postpone consideration of this issue until tomorrow morning by inviting the Supreme Council of Ukraine to meet the candidate himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u53	The honourable national deputies, all of them, have concluded the discussion, and now essentially. Come on, I agree with everyone who says we should see. We don't know what we're going to see, but the question is: The president of Ukraine suggested that you release a member of the Central Electoral Commission and I will make a submission immediately. The Supreme Council of Ukraine did so. The President of Ukraine was sent to sign five factions of the proposal, so when the President of Ukraine made another decision, someone could be sent to consult. If you're telling me about. There was no one there who saw anyone, morale and so forth, and it's quite obvious that each of us believed and believed the President of Ukraine. Therefore, there is good reason for us to consider the matter. Perhaps tomorrow, the President of Ukraine will make another candidate if the Supreme Council fails to support the Central Election Commission. [[B in m in s a l in]] About what? Let's move on. Let's finish one, then I'll put the other one in. Now. Please, calm down, dear fellows. Now, here's the manual on work. 95th year. [[B in m in s a l in]] What do you want from me? [[B in m in s a l in]] What more do you want? [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, Sas. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u54	Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is the classic case they were talking about. Remember, Knyazevich spoke. Remember, Knyazevich was talking about 30. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yesterday, Deputy Knazevitch spoke about 30 articles of the Central Election Commission Act, which should be made simultaneously. And in this case, if you refer to the Rules of Procedure with time that you don't have, but we run it to some extent, there's 200 articles where you have to distribute the materials to everyone about the candidate you're making the proposal for. The president made an offer. We need to see, learn, not what you want to read there. So today we have no reason to consider this question, because these materials are not given to us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a decision with you as soon as the submission is complete. That's why I'm voting. Who. Wait a minute! Who's in charge of carrying it? [[B in m in s a l in]] To consider this matter tomorrow, please identify yourself. Let's take a look at it tomorrow. Please be sure. [[16:59:34]] For-144 The decision is not taken. And now I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of a member of the Central Electoral Commission. According to article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to appoint Karpuntsov Valerija Vitaliyovich as a member of the Central Electoral Commission. Please be sure. [[17:00:12]] For-152. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 113, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 38, communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 0, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u56	I will now read out the ruling on “Méžigree”. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, now the decisions that require a vote. So I'm going to read to you again so that everyone understands that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will not serve the interests of any faction. First decision. Draft Decree 5354 concerning the establishment of a TSC on the legality of the transfer of the government residence of “Mježirja”. There is a proposal for a defined, everyone's attention, one head of the commission and two members of the commission from the "Julia Timoshenko Block". Let's move on. The second decision (5460) is on the creation of a TSC on the investigation of tax defaults, the lack of licensing conditions by the Ukrainian National Lottery and the involvement of the Ukrainian National Lottery. [[B in m in s a l in]] You listen. Listen! That’s it! and the involvement of the National Deputies of Ukraine, Sobolev, Terjehoina, Ukolova. What is proposed? Select Lukyanova as head of the TSK, and only two men from the Party of the Regions are on board. Let's move on. Let's move on. Decree 5461 on the creation of a TSC on the investigation of the facts of approval. Exclusion by the Prime Minister from paying taxes. It is proposed that Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna, head of the TSK, be elected only two men from the Party of Regions. Conclusion: Calm down, no one will be here to support your relationship with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please provide one full document. That's enough. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's enough, that's enough. Let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down. I'm not manipulating. Calm down. Is there a decision? There's no decision. Calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down. I told you, I'll tell you, but read it. All right, calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] The draft law on the approval of the President of Ukraine’s decision to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine’s contribution and operational support to the UN Mission in Côte d’Ivoire is now under consideration. We need to put this in the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not putting anything on the vote, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u57	Lock it down, then we'll close the session. Please, calm down. I want to do it again. Give me the committee's decision. Are you deputy first?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u58	Give the committee a decision, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u59	Dear colleagues! That was the way to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u60	You know, I've been afraid of my own, you've done Karpuntsov, calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law on approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine to send a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine to provide operational support to the UN Mission in Côte d'Ivoire. [[Registration number 5274]] Please calm down. [[17:04:23]] Z-71 Questions are not included in the agenda. Now, here's the next question. About the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process. [[on the draft law on the Concept of State Migration Policy]] Registration number 5085, 5085-1. Please vote. About the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process. [[17:05:01]] For-49 The question is not included in the agenda. On the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring Ukraine into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on State Registration of Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs. [[Registration number 5146]] Please vote. [[17:05:40]] For-25 The decision is not taken. On the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the introduction of an electronic state registration system for operators]] Registration number 5147. Please vote. [[17:06:12]] For-51 The question is not included in the agenda. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on accreditation in Ukraine of separate branches of foreign legal persons]] Registration number 5148, 5148-1. Please vote. [[17:06:47]] For-24 The decision is not taken. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on State Social Insurance Assistance]] Registration number 5159. Please vote. [[17:07:15]] For-182 The decision is not taken. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending the Law on Securities and Stock Markets. [[on the creation of conditions to avoid "technical" defaults]] [[Registration number 5157]] Please vote. [[17:07:45]] For 172 The decision is not taken. On the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Order on the Conservation of the Kiev-Pecher Lavra Complex and the further development of the National Kyevo-Pecher Historical and Cultural Reserve. [[Registration number 5135]] Please vote. Change the vote, please. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u61	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, and author of this decree. The decision is indeed very serious and necessary. But as the author of this decision, I just want to say, understanding today's mood here in our session hall, as the author I want to offer you, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, a draft decision, let's look at it later in the next session.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u62	I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Order on the Conservation of the Kiev-Pecher Lavra Complex and the further development of the National Kyevo-Pecher Historical Cultural Reserve. [[Registration number 5135]] Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:09:01]] For-41 The decision is not taken. On inclusion, I put to the vote the draft Act on guarantees of equality of parliamentary parties in the light of their activities by state television channels and radio channels. [[Registration number 5314]] Please vote. [[17:09:33]] For 180. The decision is not taken. Now we have to go to the rereading chapter. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Areas. [[on educational and cultural subjects]] At the same time, the Tax and Customs Committee addressed such a letter. “The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy has been brought before the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a re-reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 3 of the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs (registration number). This isn't this way, sorry. That's quite different. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Territories is under review. [[on educational and cultural subjects]] [[Registration number 3645-d.]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy of Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich. Please. Is there an author? Who will report from the committee? Please, Gregory Smythech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u63	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Of course, I have a bearing on this bill and, you know, it was considered last year and it was suggested that a number of questions arose during the consideration, sent for a second reading where the committee should report. Unfortunately, the committee doesn't have a report, so if you'll excuse me, I'll say a few words in support of this law. First, you know that today, today, health, culture, sports and other institutions are being built at the expense of a state or local budget. In addition, in Ukraine we have a great deal of such objects of national importance, or generally public value, built at the expense of mecenati or at the expense of a nonstate budget. For example, you remember that a very unique building was built and this is the pride of Ukraine as Donbas Arena in Donetsk. And there are many examples of these. But unfortunately, the existing legislation, the central legislation of the local authorities that are adopting is, so to speak, the lower counting when designing these institutions. You know, during Ukraine’s independence, very few objects of general purpose, such as schools, cultures, education, kindergartens, and others, have been built. And that's why the state, and you and I have to do everything we can to give some stimulating moments or to give a legislative plan to stimulate moments in order to interest money into this area. Because today, infrastructure is often compensated for from 1 to 4 percent of the amount spent on infrastructure, so called infrastructure support. What is it? These are engineering networks in the first place: electricity, gas, water, sewerage, etc. But at the same time, there is a problem because most of these engineering buildings are now privately owned. And so those buildings that are funded by the state or local budget are forced to invest up to 4 percent to compensate these so - called rations. Therefore, I believe that we should not allow this time to be due to the budget deficit that we have, given that we are underfunded, to spend more on financing private order infrastructure for local authorities, central authorities, so to speak. So if the Supreme Council supports it, then institutions that education and culture will be freed from these extra costs, and that will make it possible to reduce the cost of this building. And I think that these buildings will benefit or serve our population. So, honourable people's deputies, I propose to support this bill, it's simple, it's clear and all the more that I think it's absolutely necessary at this time of economic hardship in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please put your names on the information board. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u65	Yuri Carmazin. I thank you for reporting this bill. But please tell me if you can see the possibility that we are currently considering a bill in view of the political situation that took place in the Supreme Council Hall. Perhaps we had to move it and to this day consider the issues that are, to hold political consultations, so we will now go into the grave, and then we will spend this time again in the agenda, and so on, all that will be involved. And how do you react or how do you respond to the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which draws attention to the violation here, in this law, of the Code of Budget in the case of the adoption of this law? Because it's about the cost, although necessary, but it's about the cost, given the crisis situation in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u66	Thank you for asking. I'll start with the last one. As for the observation of our expert administration. Just think, please, the money I'm offering to free these buildings from payment is going to go private, so to speak, the areas of service. Because I repeat that all engineering networks in cities inhabited by places belong to private individuals. So we finance essentially the business or the collateral, including the budget, extra funding. I'm offering to lay off. That's the first question. The second question. With regard to budget cuts. Look, we're building these buildings of education, culture and health care, and we'll be on budget. So if we're going to reduce the investment on the basis of capital, on the basis of this underpayment, then we're going to zero this balance, because if we don't finance it, I'm not going to make it up to you. So I think that no matter how much they vote in the hall today, because very few people, but I think that this law is not political, it's a completely social purpose, so called, and I would ask the deputies who remain in the room to support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u67	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u68	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Gregory, I understand the logic of this bill, but you don't think it would be possible to implement it on just one condition that these objects that are built will be passed on to municipal property, to common property of local communities or to state property.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u69	That's the law. The law, first of all, does not make any difference what the cost is. So in our country, it's built at the expense of both private and budgetary costs. Budget costs, both central and local budgets. That's the first question. And not always in world practice and in our practice, when Ukraine went to something that everybody has a level playing field that we're only going to have, for example, kindergartens, just state gardens. Let them be healthy. And all we have to do is get rid of it, and the world frees all taxes in the future, these companies would just function, because we really need to raise this part of the social, so to speak, the meaning of the projects. Think about it, in Kiev there's not enough of those gardens, and you know better than I do, because at the time that they sold out without control, they reproved and so on. And now I'm just asking this law to give any opportunity, in part, to restore justice in this respect in terms of capital. They're not commercial projects, they're projects that focus on our children in the first place. That's why I'm asking you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u70	Yes, thank you. The questions are exhausted. Please sign up for the discussion. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yes, no one showed a desire to participate in the discussion of this bill. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. I'm voting on this proposal: the adoption as the basis of the draft law of registration number 3645-d. [[17:19:49]] For 185 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 128, “Block of Timoshenko” - 0, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” – 11, Communists – 25, “Block of Lithuania” – 20, “Afterfractional” – 1. I'll put it to a vote, please! - on the return to the draft law, registration number 3645. Please vote. Back to the bill. [[17:20:29]] For 207 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading Bill number 3645. Please vote. [[17:20:54]] For 217 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft Act amending article 3 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs is being announced for consideration. [[on the size of the moment for the certificates of immovable property alienation contracts]] The committee proposed that the draft law be postponed to the next plenary week. What will be the position?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u71	No, no, just now. Just now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u72	I'm going to put to the vote a motion for a committee to postpone consideration of the draft law (registration number 2536-d). Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, that's what they're asking me to do, so I'm willing to agree. So what? [[17:21:52]] For-29 Please, who will report this law? What do we do now? I'll take the vote if you do. There are no wanters. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a draft law (registration number). Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u73	Huh? Well, if you don't. Come on, talk to me. Please sign up for the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u74	I'll do it again. I put it to a vote, I didn't support it. What am I supposed to do? Say it. [[B in m in s a l in]] If the Supreme Council refused to do so, they would postpone. Please sign up for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u75	They won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u76	You don't want to. I'm betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the bill's draft registration number 2536-d. Please vote. [[17:22:56]] For-29 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 2536-d]] [[17:23:19]] For-147 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. It is announced for consideration of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on migration. [[Registration number 2232]] Rapporteur – National Deputy of Ukraine Smitujh Grigory Evdzimovich, co-rapporteur – head of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, National Smaller and International Relations of Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilovich. Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u77	Taking into account the importance of this law, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you to conduct a registration of the deputies in connection with the fact that the BUT faction has left the hall. If there are less than 226 deputies, close the session so as not to break my law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u78	There are now 266 cards registered in the room. The point is that the previous law I put to the vote on the transfer was not supported. So now I can also put your proposal to the vote. I don't have another way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u79	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I repeat, let me say in general for the population of Ukraine. That, in fact, the immigration legislation that governs the order or regulations of foreign citizens who are in the territory illegally today is extremely unsatisfactory. And this law was periodically delayed for the past six months every day, delayed, postponed for unknown reasons. Unfortunately or fortunately, he ended up in the hall today. But there are no deputies today. And your statement that there are 226 deputies, I say there are none. Because I've got 48 people in the hall right now. Please register with the National Deputies. If they're not here, move on to tomorrow. Because I'm very worried about this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u80	Dear colleague, you don't teach me how to live. In accordance with the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if a member of the Chamber is required to hold meetings. And the card, I told you, not the deputies, but the card, 266. So we can go this way. To discuss the bill and agree by consensus to vote for it the next day.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u81	If you'll excuse me, it's a matter of fact. Basically. You know that Ukraine passed the Readmission Act with the European Union last year. You know that today there are between 150 and 200,000 illegal immigrants in Ukraine. And this trend is, unfortunately, increasing in Ukraine, the number of foreigners who may be in Ukraine in the coming years may threaten the national interests of Ukraine. Why? Because we have labor migration to the west, open gates to one side of Europe, where there are between 4 and 7 million people. And in Ukraine, open doors are open to those who are unable to work, either have no skills, or have no ability to work in Ukraine, but they are all the more so. And as a result of the adoption of this law, it was necessary to give the central authorities, such as our border forces, an internal one. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and others are given the opportunity to more actively have legal reasons to fight for what was not in our possession on a groundless basis or without proper formalization of people from other nations. The very need for this question is another way of thinking about it, you know, the world today has started to have a very big change in environmental and other problems. You know that Europe is suffering today, very uncomfortable with the fact that in its time countries such as Belgium, France, Italy has recently admitted to its territory uncontrollablely, so to speak, the finding of a very large number of foreign citizens and these foreign citizens have had very great consequences in terms of security or in terms of social tranquillity in the country. So given that we have a very dangerous situation in Crimea and other areas, because we have an open border, I think this law is very relevant and this law needs to be adopted. Because in the absence of strict regulation of these issues, Ukraine will in time be forced to, and we will be required to find additional public budgets with you to support these illegally found other citizens of the country. As I reported earlier, and the people's deputies had the opportunity to get to know this law clearly, I think we've taken all the comments into account in the first review of this issue and the proposals made by the people's deputies. They took out the notes that were from the legal administration of ours and put it in line with the committee, because the committee has to be, I think, a report. This law is valid and meets all the requirements of both domestic law and international law. Therefore, I ask the MPs to support this bill and move the matter to a vote tomorrow morning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u82	Dear National Deputies! Gregory Yudkomovich, no question yet, a question. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Sign up for the same question, what are you? Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u83	Thank you. Dear reporter! Dear Grigory Yudkomovich! Indeed, the problem that has now been raised by the bill is extremely important. But it also has a history, as it were. Because this Supreme Council has ratified this readmission agreement. The faction of the Ukrainian Company warned that this could not be done because you did not say yet about another important detail, if Ukraine ratified the readmission agreement and those citizens who illegally cross the Ukrainian border in the direction of Western Europe are returning to Ukraine, they are already legally based in Ukraine. This is already becoming a problem, not for Europe, but for Ukraine. So this is about the fact that the faction of the Company of Ukraine totally shares that concern, but it just reminds us that we didn't have to vote for that document.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u84	Thank you for asking, that's a very good question. If you follow my position in the Supreme Council, I did not vote on this readmission law. That's the first question. The second question. I would like to emphasize to the people's deputies and to the audience of Ukraine, on Monday this Sunday I registered Law 5526, where I invite the Ukrainian National Deputies to vote on the denunciation of this Agreement until we are mirrored with European countries and others, that is, to move Ukraine into bilateral relations. There are, for example, bilateral relations with the Russian Federation that regulate these issues, please, Ukraine accepts, ratifys and so forth. And it's not that we're unilaterally assuming that this year alone there's going to be 150,000 illegal immigrants moving from Europe or being deported from Europe to Ukraine, and then, really, it's going to be our problem with you, and not just ours with you, but society. Because these people are often in a zone like this, I'd rather take them to a criminal nature, where they don't allow peace for our society. That's why I'm, I'm consistently voting, and I'm consistently reflecting in the documents. Besides, I think tomorrow I'm going to register with the other MPs a bill that will say that we're not one-sided.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u85	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u86	We should not have a unilateral visa regime where, for most countries of the world, we have opened a visa regime, and Ukrainians who are even working abroad or on other matters are beating the thresholds of our diplomatic, our neighbours' diplomatic authority to gain it. And you know how safe these countries are, they have to get to the fingerprints of our citizens in order to get a visa and not always give it. So I think that both this law and that law in the complex will help our bodies and our society to resolve these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u87	Boris Tarasyuk, please. National MP Blackwill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u88	Mr. Reporter, I'd like you to take a closer look at this aspect of this law, I, to the extent that it protects the rights of illegal migrants in Ukraine, and not because your motivation for their protection or not because their work was used in reconstruction of the border in Medjugorje, which is why you don't want to vote in favour of creating a commission to investigate this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u89	You know, if you, if you've seen or read this bill, you'll never say that there are questions in this bill that have a personal or personal opinion. That's a national question. That's the first question. What is the case with “Megirrhea ”? This bill has no bearing on the question that you are raising. Please, this is a separate question. So let's essentially look at this proposal that I'm making and I'm looking at on the committee. Meanwhile, the committee unanimously, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, supports these changes that I bring to your attention and they will be useful to our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u90	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u91	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Gregory Yudkoymovich, I fully support what you have here today in the session room. And you've already answered the question that my colleague Zibenko asked me. But I would like to warn you, when that treaty was ratified here, we called on all fellow MPs not to support it. And today, I hear the comments of those sitting on the air from the opposite side of our hall, how they put their heads on ash and they cry that they didn't have to ratify it. It is necessary when they say so to say that they voted for it. And the next. The issue of denouncing this particular agreement and the issue of visa-free regime, if you register such bills, I will sign up in a mandatory manner, and this must be done immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u92	Thank you. Well, I said there's already a denunciation question. And as for the mirror so-called visualization of the visa regime, it has to be introduced tomorrow. That's the first question. The second question. Thank you for your support, because you share with me the concern that exists in the country. And unfortunately, a president who would have anything to do about it, because he's directly responsible for these attitudes. And he first issued a decree, as part of his further work, nothing has been done in our country. You're a well-informed people today, and you're a whole society, and you're going to feel what's going on in the world. There are tremendous changes in the world that can lead to total emigration flows. And this is a threat to Ukraine. Well, just think about the number one. According to the United Nations in 2050, Ukraine will have only 26 million people living today. Is that a threat? It's a threat. And at the same time, it's very important, with 150 each year, 200,000 people will come to us, the Middle East, first of all, Asia, Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan and others. The Germans won't come to us, skilled jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u93	Mikhail Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear reporter, this is another time we have seen the real face of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, a faction that is represented today by the first person in the state executive power, namely, the Prime Minister of Ukraine. See, such important laws are being considered for the people of Ukraine, and they have so boldly left the hall. Remember, last week, last week, for whatever reason, they were doing all kinds of extracurricular sessions, telling us how they love the Ukrainian people, today we don't have a state budget for Ukraine. By the way, it's the readmission that has to be done at the expense of the Ukrainian people, at the expense of the state budget, and it's starting this year, and we don't have a state budget. Today, the government is not implementing the Ukrainian Act on raising social standards, people are actually stealing pensions, wages, social assistance. How would you now see the implementation of your law, given that we don't have a government budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u95	Thank you for asking. In view of the fact that the budget, fortunately or sadly, is not included in this law, which we are considering, because, of course, if the budget is to be considered, there should be funds in this budget for the maintenance of illegal immigrants in Ukraine; there is no doubt that these are the funds that are essential to our own, sorry, pensioners, kindergartens, that we lack, or that we are underfunded. So I believe that if Ukraine adopts a number of these bills, including what I have called them, in time, Ukraine will not, so to speak, spend the remaining funds that are not sufficient for our social needs, including pensions, kindergartens, health, and so on. That's why I think so. That's all, you know what? The adoption of this law does not require any investment on the part of the State. Not at all. There is no need for funding. This simply gives the appropriate authorities additional opportunities to legally prevent these illegal activities in Ukraine, or within Ukraine. And no more. And of course, if you say it from the point of view of the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u96	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u97	To talk to countries that are interested in getting these immigrants to us, so to speak, to move, they're European countries developed, where, by the way, they're okay with the budget. You know, and so on. And they could, if they spoke, from a humanitarian point of view, from a democratic point of view, you know, they have these possibilities. And the European Union knows that we don't have this money, that there will never be any problems, that we will have this problem, and that they will deliberately create one-sided conditions for this to happen to us. I wonder why this is happening. Either it's done on a linear basis, or it's unknown, and I think it's done. I think so. It can dispel my point of view, it is deliberately done to make Ukraine a country where there have always been problems within us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u98	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u99	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Grigory Yudkomovich, you are well aware that at first, before changing the legal status of foreigners, this law was to adopt the concept that I am fighting for in this room: the concept of State migration policy, which today stood as a sixth issue and which was now free of charge because of political opposition. It also provides for protection of the labour market in Ukraine from access to it by non-governmental migrant workers. We have to make up our minds: we're responsible for this, we're not responsible for this. We are for the creation of a single immigration control system in Ukraine: whether or not. So political decision-making is how to build a city. And you said we had a visa regime open. But, unfortunately, it's open, you know, by the President's unconstitutional decrees for the purpose of ensuring access to the Eurovision in 2005, just so you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u100	Well, about your question about the concept. Indeed, this question was right and does not need to be considered. So, unfortunately, I'm very sorry that this question wasn't discussed in the hall today. By the way, in today's Voice of Ukraine, I have published an article on this issue. I think that Ukrainian citizens will be able to learn that we have work emigration. And if you take labour emigration, of course, in the parity of the European country of love, you'll see that we have only legalized labour migration with Poland -- one and Portugal -- two more, no one else. Although you know countries like Spain, Italy and others, they have a very large number of our labor force, they are skilled, healthy, smart, and young people working for wealth. So, of course, the Supreme Council, I think that I should go back to discussing this concept and the Supreme Council, if the President doesn't bring up the concept that he should first have, that his competence would have been better, then the Supreme Council should take this issue into its own hands and necessarily consider it. I'm in charge of getting back to the question in the near future. If you don't think so. That question won't fail tomorrow, then on the first. On the first Sunday of the post-election session, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u101	Thank you, time's up. The Coroner is the head of the Committee, Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u102	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Bill No. 2232 stipulates that the demands of foreigners crossing the state border of Ukraine and strengthening the responsibility of legal and natural persons to promote illegal migration are aggravated. Changes and additions to a series of articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners propose to prohibit entry into Ukraine to foreigners and stateless persons who are carriers of an infectious or other dangerous disease or who have come from a country with a particularly complex epidemiological situation. Improper information or forged or corrupted documents has been provided. They have not fulfilled their financial obligations to Ukraine, have no financial capacity to secure their stay in Ukraine, and so forth. I will point out that the last paragraph is already being implemented by the State Border Authority of Ukraine on the basis of a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at number 1074, but, in fact, it is not legally secured. The bill also proposes to amend article 332 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and to supplement it with article 332. 1 which reinforces criminal responsibility for the organization and promotion of the illegal movement of persons across the state border of Ukraine. In addition, amendments are made to 203, 204-1, 206 articles of the Code on Administrative Violations, which reinforce the responsibility of foreigners for violating Ukrainian regulations and the responsibility of individuals and legal persons to promote illegal migration. I would like to remind you that the draft bill of March 17 of this year has already been considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading and has been sent for re-reading. According to our committee, he was subsequently thoroughly assisted by the author, he made a number of changes and removed a number of controversial positions that did not support him in his consideration of March 17, 2009. It takes into account the individual proposals that came from the people's deputies during the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Clearly, it is possible to discuss the individual provisions of the bill that have been drafted. Sure. At the same time, it is clear that the increase in legislation that regulates the legal status of foreigners is a requirement of time. Every year, the state border of Ukraine crosses up to 50 million people. A large number of foreigners enter Ukraine and leave Ukraine in the simplified visa-free order provided by the respective agreements, including the European Union. It is possible to control such migratory flows only if there is perfect migration legislation that responds quickly to the demands of time. It should also be noted that in the summer of this year, the Kabmin ruling in Ukraine actually created the Ukrainian Migration Service, evidently taking appropriate time and legislative situations in the field of migration. The bill proposed for your consideration is one of the most effective drafts in this country, in our opinion. It should also be mentioned that on January 15, 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified the Agreement on Ukraine by the European Union on readmission, which has already been discussed here, thereby making a number of commitments foreseen in the covenant. This means that Ukraine will have to accept additional illegal migrants from the countries of the European Union if they are proved to have arrived through Ukraine. When this treaty was ratified by 226 people, I personally voted against it and our faction, motivated by the fact that it would be very easy to prove, even not always fair, that a person from Ukraine came to the countries of the European Union because for this, any ticket received in Ukraine was sufficient. [[It's just like a line.]] The adoption of this bill in the first reading will allow the committee to initiate a process of, if possible, anti-crisis measures in the field of migration. On May 13, this year, a committee at its meeting of the interested ministries and authorities invited had considered a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on migration submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Smittuh.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u103	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u104	and approved recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include in the agenda of the day session and accept it as a basis. And since there's time, I'll tell you, I was told there's a minute, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the times of liberal migration policy have passed. And it's every country that cares about its welfare and well-being that understands it. I also draw your attention to the fact that during the discussion of the bill, during the meeting of the committee, all representatives of the professional ministries and departments expressed their approval of the bill, noting that it would solve a number of urgent problems, especially with regard to the exercise of border control. So I call on the committee to support this bill. Thank you, author.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u105	Yes. If you have any questions, please write them down. Please sign in. National Deputy Gordienko Sergei, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u106	Oleg Aleksandrovitch, so tell us about the morality of the readmission ratification and these questions that you report today when one vote and then they go, they rip up the body on the chest to show how good they are and go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u107	Morality is not the point. This is not a category that, unfortunately, is often present, but rather a lack of presence among colleagues. I'll tell you about it. When I argued that I couldn't ratify this agreement, I said it was just a simulation of what was going on in the package. We were forced to do so by the liberalisation of the visa regime. Visa facilitation. Simplification as it happened, you're witnesses, just for a limited circle of categories of those that still, in principle, didn't have a problem getting a visa because they were with delegations, big businessmen and so forth. And the common people, as has been the case today, have made even worse arrangements for them to be given a visa, which has been reported very frequently by the open media. And this package didn't happen because it wasn't implemented, and as of January 1, all the measures are in force. I want to stress again, I'm going to rub it in, maybe I'm not. That's enough of any paper that's supposed to be a receipt or a document with, let's say, a representative of Bangladesh.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u108	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u109	It's very important. Bangladesh, Myanmar, or India, without offending these countries, but migration flows from there. In the European Union it is found, and there is a receipt from the Ukrainian dry cleaners, as a rule. This text has already been made under this covenant, and it is a reason to qualify this person as an illegal arrival from Ukraine. While he can cross the border across Moldova, through Belarus, and so forth after going to the dry cleaners. So you're right about thinking about what we're ratifying, what we're doing. Once again, in this case, not as the head of the committee, our zero-voice faction has given in favour of the readmission agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u110	Mikhail Papiev. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear reporter, you can see that the absence of the House of Yulia Timoshenko confirms once again that the panic and despair of the Prime Minister after the results of the first tour was passed on to the Ukrainian national deputies, so they themselves do not know what to do and how to look people in the eye. But I would like you to be more specific, especially to our radio and television audiences, what readmission is all about. Because it is a commitment of the state that we accept illegal migrants from countries of the European Union into our territory, whether they crossed the border of Ukraine or not, when they entered the countries of the European Union. Moreover, it is a commitment that we must make at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. And keeping these camps and being repatriated. In addition, you know that readmission has been accepted under the promise of visa waiver and that our agreement with the European Union will bring about Ukraine’s future membership. But that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u112	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Mikhail Miklaiovich, I just don't understand, do you want me to go over everything you've said again, qualifying for re-admission? Readmission is the return of illegal migrants to their territory. Listen, listen! That's what they got them through. That is, Ukraine is under an obligation to transport the people of Bangladesh at its expense, if in the European Union, one of the countries of the European Union proves that this person, an illegal migrant, has crossed the border across Ukraine, the border. [[I already told you how hard it is to do this.]] [[Mikhail Mikhailovich, don't shake your head. You know what I know.]] Thus, Ukraine is to land on the plane of this inhabitant, namely, the people of Bangladesh, Myanmar, China and so forth and to send them to where they came from, and it was clearly transitive in most cases, 80 percent through Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u113	Finish up, please. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u114	Dear Oleg Alexandrovich, I would like to ask you a question that I was asked at a meeting where a fairly intellectual meeting with a fairly intellectual audience was a teaching and teaching staff. People asked: why does the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Timoshenko, in order to enjoy the West, to win the elections in Western countries, have a murderous immigration policy and, unfortunately, we have Ukraine as a prodigal, don't we? People don't come to us, and then we start thinking, and where do we get disease, epidemics, children get sick, crime gets worse, and so on. Well, thank you, People's Deputy Smythehu from the Party of the Regions, for making the law, at least to correct Ms. Timoshenko's mistakes. What else needs to be done to protect against the lawlessness that is taking place, from the mistakes that the Government of Timoshenko has made in the field of migration policy? What do we have to do to protect the country and the people, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u115	Garbage in the Prime Minister
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u116	Mikhail Vasilovich, with all due respect to you, I will not continue the advocacy and propaganda mission, because let's face it, there are a lot of issues that relate to migration policy that concern directly the powers of the President of Ukraine, the person who is in charge, in fact, of foreign policy, of international policy. You know, national security and defense, but also the issue of international politics. And that's why I think that if we move away from the propaganda moments that we have to do, it's really the government's migration service, because today we're dealing with illegal migration issues, I've figured out, somewhere in seven different departments: both the Ministry of Internal Affairs and taxation. Customs, and the State Committee on Nationalities and Religions, and the Service of Ukraine, and the State Border Service, and, and, and. You understand, and in the Russian Federation, I take the East on purpose, and in the United States, I take the West, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u117	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u118	There are individual organs, such as the Migration Service. No matter what country I called in one country, it's subordinated to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in another country it's completely independent. The main thing is that all efforts are concentrated and concentrated in a systematic, complex, and not fragmented way of solving the problem. Once again, I want to say that the liberalization policy of migration in the world has ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u119	Yuri Carmazin, please. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u120	Yuri Carmazin. Dear people's deputies, let's give justice for the first time, our foreign policy is governed by the President. First. And the second. You're now accusing Timoshenko of having absolutely nothing to do with it. And that includes avoiding debates on television and so on. Let's not be and not in its headquarters are now developing a consensus scenario, and then somehow get sick, I say that to society, and then history will judge us. I wanted to ask you another question, Reverend Oleg Alexandrovich, you're a professional person, I thank you for that. There are flaws in this bill, even though it can be accepted, there are flaws, in particular with regard to amending the Criminal Code, and I would like to hear your opinion, the opinion of your committee, like a person who has spent three years committing himself to changing before and adopting the new Criminal Code. What do you think, since there's obviously a mistake there and you've gone around that question somehow.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u121	What did I do?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u122	I thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for such a fundamental question, in principle, I answered it, truth without detail. Why without detail, because there is, I wouldn't call it a bug, I'd call those things that obviously can be improved, improved. And at the committee meeting, that's what this was all about. But nevertheless, all the members of the committee, if I'm not mistaken, regardless of factional affiliation, said that this bill should be accepted, that it should be an impetus in the entire system of action, including. I agree with you, I just didn't detail, there are other moments, but I think it's a different format. Thank you. You're right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-21-m1.u123	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The report and the discussion report have been completed since 18 hours. We'll pass this law tomorrow. You'll support it. So, your honorary colleagues, tomorrow we will continue our morning session after we have asked the MPs to discuss the matter and make a decision. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m.
