ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:31]] Cards were registered in the 314 members of the National Assembly Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Bondik Valery. Let us welcome our colleague, wishing him health and success. [[Applause]] I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on 31 March 2010. Six issues of the agenda were considered: one decree was adopted, two bills were adopted on a basis, and three bills were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, your attention to the announcement. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal statement, I am reporting the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine as part of the coalition of MPs “Stability and Reform” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call of Bobil Aleksandra Fadiyovich. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, the list of issues to be considered for today, you have. Just a minute. Given what day we have today, I would like to ask you, dear colleagues, to arrange for us to have a work together, and most importantly, to be able to consider the list of issues that we have set for today. Now, about the organization of our work: one minute, please, let's exchange our thoughts. Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! It is clear that we are now working under new conditions, since the Law on the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has long been in force. In view of this, I draw your attention to the absolutely imperative rule in the Rules that requires that a comparative table be given in 10 days. Today, there are 5 questions on the agenda for the second reading, after which there was no comparable table at 6 o’clock yesterday. I call them -- this is Bill 5239, 4768, 1416, 4190 and 4184. Vladimir Mikhailovich, strictly in line with the Rules. I am asking you to take these questions off the table today, because yesterday the Ukrainian national deputies had no opportunity to get acquainted with a comparative table.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u3	Thank you. Ivan Grigorovich. Please, who else would like to make a statement? Are there no wanters? Please, Konovaluk Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Next time, I'll keep my hand up. In a few weeks, we'll get a draft budget for the current year. And I would like to ask you to consider the possibility that we will be able to consider those bills that are already approved in the first reading that will affect the income and expenditure portion of the budget. The fact that this is going to be a difficult budget and that many social, economic problems need to be addressed today is obvious. So I would still suggest, apart from the organizational issues that really got into the agenda, I would like to pay attention to those bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u5	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We would like to support today's agenda, the faction of the Party of the Regions, with particular reference to the issue put on the agenda of Bill 4177. Our colleagues have this bill, and we will support it. This will answer the questions of election in our State in order to streamline the electoral system so that no further problems will arise. And, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we would like to consider today, or at least include in the agenda, Bills 6122, 6222. We had an agreement on the Conciliation Council that we would put it this week because it is important to the industry and the economy of our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u7	Okay. Who else is insisting? None. Dear colleagues. Ah, Ivan Grigorovich. Well, please, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, the faction has authorized me to say the following, is now in line with the daily bill on the election of heads and members of individual committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And there is a very clear norm, provided the factions are reconciled. Yesterday, the High Council committee was the appropriate one -- the regular one addressed the issue and did not reach an agreed position. I'm talking to representatives of all other factions, I'm talking to coalition factions. Dear colleagues, to remove this issue today from consideration until full reconciliation. Our motives are the following, my fellow Members, today is a unique opportunity in the state for the first time, perhaps in all history, when both the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the parliamentary majority, and the National Bank, and the law-enforcement system are essentially gradually but convincingly concentrated in one hand. And you and I in the Rules Act, which we voted for the first time in this room, which became the law, have clearly prescribed the right to control the power of the parliamentary opposition. Therefore, we would like to consider the matter. That's what it takes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u9	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u10	This certainly requires further consultation and reconciliation. In order to unlock this process and, indeed, not to delay it for a few weeks, or months, or months indefinitely, today has made the only right decision, we have made a decision to recall all the leaders, deputies, first deputies and secretaries of the committees that we have today, to withdraw fully from these positions in order to completely unlock the process of transformation during, literally, the week. So in this connection, we urge that this issue today, Vladimir Mikhailovich, do not disturb the hall. We also had an agreement on parity in the presence and coalition, and opposition, so that we wouldn't have the advantage of those committees where there are particularly important control functions, namely the regular budget committee, the justice committee and some others. Therefore, fellow believers, we understand what a week, including for believing people, is the majority of our population.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u11	Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u12	We would like to postpone the consideration of this matter. And I ask that the Hall support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Dear colleagues, please note, we exchanged thoughts. Regarding Roman Zvaric’s observation, it is absolutely correct. Those bills for second reading, which are not subject to regulatory standards, will not be considered, we agree. But at the same time, when we follow the Rules, we must all read the Rules and understand one thing that would destabilize the work of the Supreme Council by recalling MPs is obviously wrong. If there is such an offer, we will put it to the vote. Any one of them. Dear colleagues, please do not disturb and listen, and the first deputy head of the committee will not violate the Rules and the corresponding regulatory committee. Second, respectable colleagues. If we do not have an agreed position, please put off the morning session, hold consultations. That's the first one. Next, dear colleagues. If the position on the Committee on Freedom of Speech is challenged, we can remove it from the document without considering the issue of leadership of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. But. Listen. But people on the committees have to work. So please consult with the factions. After the consultation, we will return to that question. And let's not look for any excuses, well, if not this week, then the next week we'll have to break up the work of the Supreme Council. Next, dear colleagues. Listen and read the Rules. Next. We have three applications for the appointment of the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the head of the Broadcasting Committee, and the head of the State Property Fund. So I would ask that we consider this matter immediately. Perhaps after considering the appointment of judges and the voting of election decisions. And one more moment. Regarding the bills that Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov spoke of, 6122, 6222. I have this proposal, my dear colleagues, we have: one, two, three, four, five bills to consider in the part of the agenda. If you had no objection to planning a job, now it would be worth putting to the vote for inclusion in the agenda and then moving on to the consideration of Bill 4177. Is there no objection? Thank you. Dear colleagues! The break's over, now calm down. Once again, I'd like to tell Alexander Bondar that the Supreme Council won't wait for you until you've come to speak, let's work for 10 hours. Calm down. There's the Rules and we're working under the Rules, and that's it. Now, take the chapter, your honorary colleagues, “For inclusion in the agenda of the day session”, Bill 6109 is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the non-abuse of the right to appeal. The Oliynik People's Deputy's Project, put to the vote, put to the agenda. [[10:13:25]] For 329 Decision taken. Next. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of Act 6044 amending article 217 of the Criminal Procedure Code. [[on the duties of the investigator]] National MP Mishchenka's project. Please vote. [[10:14:08]] For 196 The decision is not taken. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Taxation of Business Income. [[on dividend taxation]] People's MP Karakai's draft, please vote. [[10:14:42]] For 216 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on lending and stimulating foreign investment]] Project of the People's Deputy, Poluniev. Please vote. [[10:15:18]] For 210 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the inclusion of the day-to-day draft Decree 6049 on Ukraine's participation in the formation of a single economic space with the Republic of Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation and the development of mutually beneficial economic cooperation. [[EP]] [[6049]] It's a day-to-day inclusion. [[10:16:07]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Dear national deputies, by factions, please. I can't hear you. Region Party 29, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 0, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 1, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 19, non-fractional - 1. Sergei Mishchenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the 6044 vote. I don't think the colleagues understood the point. Remember, last session we voted my bill to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code to article 218, where the investigator is obliged to give the defendant and his lawyer a description of the case. And here everyone, including from the Party of Regions and all the other factions, said that we should urgently consider these same rights this week, so that the victim and his lawyer could have two articles together, 218 and 217, together in the second reading. And that's why I don't understand why we're so focused on citizens' rights, we're breaking their constitutional rights by coalition? Where's the logic, where's the point?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u15	Honourable National MPs, taking into account the proposal of the People's MP Mishchenka, I will put to the vote to return to the consideration of those bills that are not supported. You can't support it, so they're taking off at this session. Is there no objection? Once again, I ask you to be careful about voting. I am voting on the question of the inclusion in the agenda of Act 6044 on the amendment of article 217 of the Criminal Procedure Code. [[on the duties of the investigator]] Please vote. [[10:18:40]] For 372 Question is, we're back on the agenda. I now vote on the inclusion of Law 6044 in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:19:08]] For 381 Questions are included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, I am now voting for a return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation. Please vote. Here comes the vote. [[10:19:55]] For 214 We're not back. I am betting on the vote to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on lending and stimulating foreign investment]] Please vote. [[10:20:32]] For 222 We're not back. I am voting for a return to the consideration of the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Ordinance on Ukraine's participation in the formation of the Single Economic Space (EPP) with Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation and the development of mutually beneficial economic cooperation. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:21:15]] For 222 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable National MPs. What about the application? You don't have to? The factions, please. Region Party - 167, Block Timoshenko - 4, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 4, Communists - 27, Block of Lithuania - 19, non-fractional -1. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to include in the agenda a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine. [[on the terms of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads]] [[Registration number 4177]] I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:22:21]] For 401 Decision taken. Let us turn to this question. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. The National Deputy Podgorny, co-reporter, is the head of the Committee on Legal Policy. Why don't we look at it in a reduced procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u16	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine No. 2222-4 from 08.12.2004. This law, in particular, changed part of the first article of article 141 of the Basic Law of Ukraine and established that the deputies of the rural, rural, urban, district, district council were to be elected for a term of five years. In doing so, part two of article 141 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which establishes that rural, rural, and urban heads are chosen by the territorial communities for a term of four years. In accordance with the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, as amended by the Law of Ukraine on the Approval of Amendments to Article 22 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crime, the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is five years. [[on the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] This difference in terms of the credentials of the representative body of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and heads of regional communities is not in line with the logic of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and can lead to a balanced work of all local self-government bodies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In addition, the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the local councils, at various times with the election of rural, rural, urban heads, will lead to a significant increase in expenditures from the State budget of Ukraine. Then the question of the terms of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils, rural, rural, urban heads need legislative harmonization. The bill proposes to amend part one of article 136, parts one and two, of article 141 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and to establish that the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads elected in the next election is five years. [[I want to emphasize, in the next election.]] And to foresee that the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, as proposed by him, should be extended to the deputies of all and also to rural, rural, city councils elected in the June 26, 2006, elections. The bill also proposes to establish that the powers of rural, rural, urban, district councils, district councils elected to the June 26, 2006, as well as the first re- and interim elections held between March 2006 and March 27, 2011. Thus, when we adopt this law, we take away all the contradictions that today are in connection with the explanation that was adopted by the Constitutional Court by interpretation, which are the mandates of heads and councils, namely, deputies who have been elected in successive elections. Please support this bill and give your consent to refer it to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the report is complete. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Ruslan Knazevich. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u18	Dear Sergey Petrovich, I'm here. I have a question for you. I fully support this bill. If there is an opportunity, I will be sure to make an argument for his support. But, well, it's a shame you didn't mention we lost time. Once before, the bill was considered in the session hall. It's been six months, and we're going back to it. Although, if we were to include it then, we would probably have had the Constitutional Court's conclusion and the trial would have been much simpler. But that's my plan. You're predicting, in view of the necessity of synchronization of out of turn and in turn, that those MPs who have even been elected before 2011 in turn for elections, elections, exercise their powers of headship and headship, right? In order to somehow circumvent that decision of the Constitutional Court, which is quite controversial. But what can we do next? Because it's just the record that the term of office for the next five years doesn't really solve the issue. Because someone would think that the absence of words “or extracurriculars ” means that everyone, again, will be 5 years old. How Can I Get Out of This Colosseum? Or is it worth it right now to take that question down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u19	Thank you for asking, Your Honor. I think the exact formulation that we're assuming that the mandate of five years is just the mandate of those chosen in the next election. Therefore, this rule will not apply to those who will be chosen for election or re-election. That's why I think that's exactly the wording that's going to remove the contradiction that was created by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u20	Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Let me give the floor to one-party Valery Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u22	Valery Konovaluk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear reporter! Of course, the question of 141 articles of the Constitution should be settled. But in the run-up to past elections, there has also been a position from your political power that needs to be given more authority to local self - government. Why does your initiative apply solely to the duration and time of the local councils and heads of rural, rural, and urban councils? Why is it not about the issues that will ensure the development of local self - government? That's the first question. And the second. How do you think the electoral system has to be put in place in Ukraine for local self-government to be more effective so that the territorial communities actually have all the important influence on the situation and solve the socio-economic problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. I'll start with another one. In my time, I was drafting a bill to have the councils, the local councils, elected for open lists. Unfortunately, he was not voted in this room, and the Party of the Regions did not have enough votes. The system that is in operation today really does not allow the electorate to choose more objectively those deputies who would work effectively for local self - government. As far as this bill is concerned, why is it that only questions relating to the term of office are involved in this bill? This idea was born just after the Constitutional Court's decision, when the elections were balanced, and when today, of course, those who chose, and we chose with you, made more faithful decisions and held elections, about 800 such local out-of-order elections, and today it is not clear when there was an election. That is why this bill came about in order to balance the exact terms of the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u25	National MP Crnvolenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u26	Dear reporter, I generally support this perfectly good, correct and only wise in our situation, when we illegally overturn local elections, is the only right and smart way to go through changes. But don't we have a mine that doesn't stop this process, because there is already a Constitutional Court decision that out of turn elections, if they're elected to them, this is an authorization for five years. And even if we go around this moment right now, by your law, the successive elections that will be scheduled after 2011 elections will continue again for five years? And you say that only about those chosen by 2011. How can we miss this moment? And won't the Constitutional Court ever bring us back? Maybe we should take it without paragraph 3, 2 or part, and then after all of these elections, which were scheduled after 2006, we should assign the extra-optimal elections at the same time as the 27th of March.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u27	I've almost answered the same question. Still, I believe that the wording that is proposed, it removes this conflict, and another five years, authorization, will only apply to those chosen in the next election.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u28	Pavlov Zebrovsky, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u29	Dear colleague! Do you think the law can stand above the Constitution? According to the Constitution, the authorization of city heads is written down for four years. And the authority of the city's heads has come to an end. You're trying to regulate the thesis in the Constitution by law. Does this not appear to you to be a violation of the Constitution, and at some point can it be accused in the Constitutional Court? There are, of course, problems with the decision, which provided for a short deadline for the authority of local self - government. But according to city heads, the constitutional norm is just four years old. And this year they were going to hold a city-head election. Moreover, the second question is that today there is no consensus decision on how to change the form of elections, and will it not be a mere stretch in time, and a continuation of powers on the illegal, I think, basis of those people who are working in urban, rural areas today?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u30	To be honest, I also have such fears. Considering that this bill was introduced more than a year ago, and if it had been adopted in 2008 immediately after the Constitutional Court's decision, we had already held an election with you and we would have forgotten.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u31	Deputy Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions. Leonid Ivanovich Graz, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u32	It has become a tradition for us to go into dissipation in the country, and then we have to change the Constitution. And for you two, answer them. First question. Clearly, local councils do not need this offer, since they are already five years old. With regard to urban heads, the authority of urban, rural and rural peoples whose powers have almost expired. How, then, will they exercise their authority? Who, apart from the people, can give them a four-year mandate, then post facto change. That's the first question. And the second question. Have you ever read the Constitutional Court ruling on the term of office of the Supreme Council of Crimea? It clearly and clearly states that this term of office does not apply for a term of five years. So you're denying the Constitutional Court's decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u33	No, we're not denying anything, we're just trying to make such changes to the Constitution so that they can let us resolve all these issues today. As for the authority of the local councils for five years, that is indeed the case. Today it is. But if you look closely at the law when changes to the Constitution were made, it clearly states that this rule came into effect after “the acquisition of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, elected on 26 March”. And I'll remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the past has been called to order on May 25th. Unfortunately, all of the local councils that we were elected on March 26, 2006, in their absolute majority, except, I think, two councils of all, were appointed by May 25, or the end of April, or the beginning of May. So this rule does not apply to them. So it would have to be an election, really, now literally, but maybe it's a coalition issue that canceled the decision when the election was scheduled for May 30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u34	People's MP Kolocei, faction of the Party of Regions. People's Deputy MacKeenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. None. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u35	Dear reporter, let's deal with this. You say that if the election after the election takes place after March 27, 2011, the mandate of those councils or heads will continue until the next election. Because this is what this bill is about, what it's all about. That the council or the heads that are elected in the next election, the term of office is five years. But you know that the authorities operate within, in a way and so forth, the Constitution and the laws. And if it is not written that the term of office of the local authorities or councils that are elected in consecutive elections, well, are limited to the next election, then the question is not solved. I can't understand your logic, and I can't understand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u36	So, I want to say that before the Constitutional Court's decision on the appeal of the Kyiv City Council, no one raised that question at all. All the elections that were out of turn, all those who were elected to them, ended after the next election. I think that's what's gonna happen now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u37	Yes, thank you, have a seat. Time's up. From the committee, the committee head will report to Sergei Mishchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u38	Yes, thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, well, at last, we started a discussion today, started a discussion about when, after all, we're going to start a question, to consider the issue of local council elections. And indeed, the authors of the bill of amendments to the Constitution say that these elections should begin on March 27, 2011. I understand that the committee understands the logic of amending the Constitution of authors, that the final decision to make changes before this, before the Constitution, is necessary, firstly, three hundred votes; secondly, this is the next, next, session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And understanding that we are now doing the technical task of the Supreme Council, voting only in favour of the decree to refer this law to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. That is, the Constitutional Court, by giving us its conclusion as to the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of this law, will allow us to move forward one step at a time with regard to the adoption of this decision. Indeed, it could be decided by the decision and by the decision to appoint another election to the local councils and heads of local councils. Sadly, though, today we have made a decision to revoke such a decision. And then all the factions agreed that these should be changes to the Constitution. The drafters did not touch on all issues of concern related to local elections that could be laid down in the Constitution. Because there's a lot of discussion about that. If this were a great deal of novelty, these novels would, of course, be buried in the sessional hall in relation to disputes and other points of view. So I urge the Supreme Council of Ukraine to perform such a technical function of voting for a decision, not for adoption, I say again in the first reading. The first reading and discussion of this bill is possible only after the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has sent us this bill with its conclusion. And now we've just sent him, like other drafts, if you remember, to the Constitutional Court in the past sessional weeks to determine its constitutionality. The only thing we can ask the Constitutional Court is to consider this issue in a short time. Because if we don't do the first reading in this session, there will be no elections on March 27th at all. They can only be in October or November 2011. And in this way, we will continue illegally for six months to the local councils and heads of cities, and we will continue to authorize them. Although that makes us doubt that March 27 is a constitutional norm. So our position and the committee are next. To this bill of intent to support it, this decree. But ask the Constitutional Court, so that we can at first reading this session by July-month consider it, and already at the next session in August, in October-month, we can accept it by 300 votes so that we can have a local election in March-month. Otherwise, I warn you, we'll have the only way out of this -- we'll have to rule the Supreme Council again without changing the Constitution to define these terms for local elections. But once again, the heads of cities and rural heads fall out of this five - year term again, and they will be chosen for four years. And it's again that we're creating this conflict, this injustice with respect to this category of people that we're choosing for these positions. Therefore, I would like to support the committee's decision, which was unanimous in referring this bill to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! If you have any questions for the chairman of the committee, please sign in. Please put your name on the information board. Anatoly Matvienko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u40	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Mr. Sergey! Again, I return to the norm that is causing serious discussion today. In the final positions, we settle the questions of the successive and successive elections, but in the very text of the Constitution there is a rereading, why we cannot in the very text of the Constitution clearly state that the next election is to be chosen for a term before the next one. And then we'd take down all the colossals, or we'd get back in conflict with the Constitutional Court's decision. Let's do it, can we do it now, or can we do it after the Constitutional Court examines this problem and makes us notice that this rule needs to be clarified. Otherwise, again, we do not have a clear perspective on how elections will be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u41	Thank you. Thank you for asking, that's a very good question, and it's really one of the warnings that exists at the end of the law. Unfortunately, we cannot now accept any changes to this bill unless it is the wish of the authors and the Supreme Council that we change the text of this bill now. But it's not real, and now we're going to have a discussion and we're going to bury it like this. If you are referring to the interpretation provided for in the Transitional Provisions of this Law, even after the Constitutional Court has concluded, we cannot interfere with the text of the law. We can intervene, but once again we have to send him to the Constitutional Court, that's what the Constitution of Ukraine says when we adopt changes to the Constitution, that's what the order of sequentiality says, as is the final form of change to the Constitution. Because if the Constitutional Court were to consider one question, we would change it to a second reading, it would have to consider it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u42	Paul Zebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u43	Dear colleague, we're actually taking only a fraction out of the context again to address the issues that have accumulated since the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. And today you say "we can't, we can't" why we can't, maybe today we don't have to vote for everything. To finalize and submit a comprehensive system bill that we could refer to the Constitutional Court. Why should particles only settle matters when there is an urgent need to settle in full volume and how you speak in rural terms, and how those deadlines have ceased, and there have been successive elections. This is not to be done by any sporadic movement, but by the way, I apologize as the dog of Paul, reflectors of some kind. There was a problem, running, and running. Why we are in a hurry, we need to vote twice in this session, first, on the referral to the Constitutional Court and then on the vote in the first reading. It's only April 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u44	Please, Paul Zebrowsky, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u45	Perhaps now, in principle, we can agree on a re-reading of the first reading by a reduced procedure and not even the first reading, to refer to the Constitutional Court and to vote on the system law the following week.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. Dear Paul Ivanovich! You understand that there is a procedure, it is different from the procedure for the adoption of bills, which is in the sense of referring to the Constitutional Court by a ruling that there are two such decisions. The first decision is that we make a decision to refer to the Constitutional Court and the second, we do not refer it to the Constitutional Court. “For processing” – there is no such order in this case. There's a question for the drafters, so they should talk about it. To date, I want to say again that the committee has come from this point of view that any changes to the Constitution that come to the committee must first determine whether it is constitutional or not. This may not be said by the committee, not by Paul Ivanovich Zebrovsky, but by the Constitutional Court. After that, we can make other decisions and continue to move on to those steps that are envisaged before the change to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u47	Ruslan Knazevich, faction of "Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense"
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u48	Dear Sergey Grigorovich! I'd like to, you know, a very important aspect to address, because there's not a lot of people here who've been paying attention to it. Here our colleague Leonid Ivanovich said that the Constitutional Court had corrected the Supreme Council and said that the Crimean Council had a term of office for five years. Since you and I are the authors of the law that they have corrected, we must say that this is entirely true. The Constitutional Court said that the Supreme Council had done something unconstitutional because it was not its mandate to determine the term of office of the Council, but the Council itself. But of the term of office, when the election was held, the court did not say a word. And it's very important, and that's why it allows us to solve this issue in this way at the level of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. I think you asked that question and answered it yourself. So there's nothing to add.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u50	Thank you. Take your time. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up for the factions. Please enroll the national deputies for the performance. Yes, I'd like you to put your name on the board of the national deputies. Leonid Ivanovich Grac, a faction of Communists, will be followed by Mosak, a faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, making fun of the law, as we joke when we wish, I mean, in terms of the formation of power, both in terms of the right of the people to form power, is unacceptable. It is clear and understandable that the system is now balanced, but not balanced in the sense that one day, one day and one flag went to the elections. It has been balanced long ago and there is no point, in my view, in explaining the reasons today only because it will be more economically beneficial to carry out one day with such a grave violation of rights, particularly of the electorate to form his own power. Second. Yes, the question today, including the Committee's rapporteur, was raised, and the Chairman of the Committee explained that if we suddenly and once in September accept these amendments, they could come into force as a hindrance. I ask everyone a question: The President of the country, the village, the city head, they place their signatures on key property, land documents every day, and they have expired their terms of office almost today. Who will extend their term of office and head until September? Nobody! We establish a legal vacchanal so that it is not understood. And to those who cannot read, including the decisions of the Constitutional Court in respect of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Supreme Council has a term of office to reply that the Constitutional Court has made it clear and clear that the date of election of the Crimea Supreme Council is only appointed by the Supreme Council, and no one else in Ukraine can do so under the current legislation. Secondly, the term of office of five years for the current composition of the Supreme Council does not extend. Therefore, the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea ends on 12 May. Tell me what's next. Do you realize you're opening Pandora's box? Do you understand that this is about the abolition of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea? Also, ask the question yourself, and the struggle of nationalists, and ask yourself the question of return by 1954. I therefore believe that this bill cannot be supported categorically.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u52	National MP Moshak, faction of the Party of the Regions. You don't? Then Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, our faction today has not taken a unanimous vote, and it has been determined that everyone will vote according to his beliefs. I'm not voting for this bill, I'll explain why. It's really a question of responsibility. It is unfortunate that the newly elected president and coalition have begun activities that violate the Constitution. Probably everyone who voted, and this is now confirmed by a member of the Company's faction, everyone understood very well, it was a direct and gross violation of the Constitution when the local elections were canceled. They all did it knowingly. The Constitutional Court has pointed out to the Supreme Council, when it comes to the Ternopil district council, that we have the right to set an election date and we cannot cancel. The coalition didn't want to look for a normal path. Including, for example, the introduction of a budget bill on behalf of the President, any other. How did this end? It concluded that tens of millions of citizens had lost the right to take over local authority. This ended when we literally followed the spirit of the law, and that's also what the previous speaker said about the illegality of decisions that are made, which may be questioned, all the more so in our judicial system. We're looking for a solution. Right, we have to go back to the constitutional field. But why don't I vote for this bill? Because, on the one hand, the election isn't until March 27th, although today's minister of justice can and will tell us about it, do the same thing, achieve the same task, but the election will be held in November-December, as soon as possible to give people their right to choose local authorities. We don't want to. The drafters of the BUT faction bill, particularly the leader of the Ivan Kirilenko faction, who in exchange introduced the bill and did not want it now, obviously not all. Other than that, it's a bet. Mina, who can carry the election all the way to 2012 and beyond. We have just heard the thoughts of respected lawyers who have identified contradictions and have not resolved the exact question of the term of action of the appropriate councils or heads if there have been successive elections. This gives the Constitutional Court the right to say no to this bill, for example, within a month and a half. And no decision will be made in this session at all. This means that the election is postponed until the fall of the following year. And we're going to go very far with this procedure. I'd like the coalition to stop if the blood were to shed its eyes and think that any decision could be made, with the same level of legitimacy, a decision could be made to cancel the election of the next President, to conduct it 50 years later, to the Supreme Council 100 years later, and so on. We have to think about what we're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u54	Ruslan Knazevitch, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! Well, actually, this discussion was already in this room, it was three months ago. It's true, we're so irresponsible, I think we've referred to it, and this bill has not been sent to the Constitutional Court. Although I had a position here and it was, in principle, divided by many, that according to the Constitution we can't do any, you know, samples, we don't send, we don't send. We should all send, and the question should only begin after the Constitutional Court has reached a positive conclusion. But it's about technology. Basically. There's a lot of positives here, but there are some negatives. Especially by the pluss. Leonid Ivanovich doesn't hear that I'm about to speak, or hear what I'm saying. Leonid Ivanovich, it's just that I supported you because the Constitutional Court said that the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is indeed going to be chosen for four years. And we set a date because she doesn't want to define. And it's this bill that shifts the level of regulation of this issue to the level of the Ukrainian Constitution, because at the level of the Crimea Constitution, unfortunately, we see that there are some things that are involved that don't allow deputies to do constitutionally. And that's why this position strengthens your position, not contradicts it. This time. The second question, very important, is that we really have a term of office the next time we're going to be 5 years for advice and 4 years for heads. If we don't solve this right now, we're going to have an eternal war at the level of self-government. The new head will always be at war with the newly elected council and vice versa. You can't let that happen. And if the question here is whether we have two months later or two months earlier to hold an election, that's the question, if we settle, it's worth having these elections two months later. Because if we don't do that, we're going to create such a disaster for local self-government that we're going to be dating for a long time. And finally, about synchronization of the extra- and extra-curriculars. I agree, it was my question to write just another one and not write a word or an extra one to the end can be understood and we see the reaction even to this room. As the self-governance body decides, I assure you that it will decide for its own benefit and that it will think that these next ones are once again for five years. That is why it is no longer possible to resolve this issue at this level, but it must be perfectly decided at the level of the Crimea and Rural, Rural, Law on Election of Deputies, referring to changes to the Constitution. Finally. I think there's something very important missing here. We don't know when we should hold the next election of deputies after those who will be elected in 2011 if they do. And here we have to apply the same formula as the President and the Supreme Council in the last week of the last month of the fifth year of authority. If this is not done, we will again be tossing our finger into the sky and determining on which day we should hold elections in March or May. As long as we don't solve these issues at the level of law, it doesn't make any sense to move through these constitutional changes, because they don't actually solve the issue. But they must now be voted for and awaited by the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u56	Mikola Giga, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u57	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u58	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u59	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Political nodes need to be solved and resolved in a civilized, democratic, consolidated way under the roof of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And solve it by making changes to the Constitution. This will be understandable to the people, understandably to society, understandably to the world community. That's first and foremost. This bill proposes to amend article 136, part 1, and article 141, part 1, and 2, of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the establishment of a five - year term of office for the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural, urban, elected in the next election. The purpose of the legislative act is to unify the terms of office of the representative body of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads, which will ensure the continuity of the process of self-determination and the reduction of public budget expenditure for the elections. Drafting of the bill is due to the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the fourth call of the Act of Ukraine amending the Constitution of Ukraine No. 2222-4 of 08.12.2004. In particular, this law changed part of the first article of article 141 of the Basic Law of Ukraine and established that the deputies of the rural, rural, urban, district, district council were to be elected for a term of five years. Part 2 of article 141 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which establishes that rural, rural and urban heads are elected by the territorial communities for a term of four years, in accordance with the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, with amendments approved on 13.03. In 2009, the Act approving the amendment to article 22 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea concerning the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is 5 years. In this regard, the faction of the Party of the Regions offers the session hall a positive decision on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u60	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Valérie Konovaluk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u61	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Honorable national MPs certainly have many questions today, and it is up to you whether the Constitution will change or not, whether these will be positive changes or not. From this rostrum came a variety of thoughts. I would like to stress this today and turn to those who advocated constitutionality in the electoral appointments for May 30. After all, the May 30 elections were unconstitutional because the elections had been held earlier and were scheduled for March 26. Let us be honest with our names. This means that the appointment is on a different date than what has passed is simply a matter of political, economic and economic relevance. And for that, if that's what happened, we forgot about what we promised people. And we promised people that we would change the election system, that the election system would be major to rural, rural, urban, district councils. Does this same provision change this bill? No, it doesn't. He doesn't touch him at all. It's all written. It's written that they choose by secret ballot, according to such heads or equal, direct voting rights, by voting, the MPs of the village, the city, the district, the district council, and then it's not written that on the majority basis. I would suggest, my fellow Members, that when we are making changes, when we consider the first reading after the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, I propose and add this to change the system of elections that people require of us. [[I have no doubt that this conclusion will be positive.]] Because it has not justified itself today as a party approach to the election of circuit or district heads. We've had a lot of trouble picking city heads, especially in the millions of cities, in the district centers, on a one-way or two-way basis. How? So let's write it right over here where we write it. And as for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. My fellow Members, I would like us not to rule out what might be advantageous to us in the Constitutional Court's decision, because, even though the Constitutional Court's decision is taken to comply with the existing Constitution, we want to make changes to that functioning Constitution. Other decisions of the Constitutional Court will follow. Thus, there is no contradiction in the Constitution to the project currently being implemented. I'd like everyone's support. I agree with my colleague Chechchev that this is the case when we have to look for political consensus in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u62	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Peter Melnik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u63	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished voters, colleagues! I am convinced that in the preceding elections, every political power has promised serious changes to local self - government. We have to admit today that not only are these provisions, 141 articles, today are not being implemented and are causing some contradictions, but that for 14 years more than 20 constitutional laws have not been approved that ensure the implementation of the provisions of the Constitution, that we do not at all recall what is not being implemented, by the way, 43rd, 46th, 47th, of the Constitution, which deals with the guarantees of the State of the citizen to work, to a decent standard of living, to provide housing. Another question. We understand that all the problems of the last five years have been caused by the failure to make a second stage of constitutional reform: we have never given local self-government the normal conditions of existence and development. We promised to eliminate local government administrations, create executive bodies of local self-government, change the conditions for providing a budgetary and financial base for local self-government. What, we just want to consider and change the term of authority and leave the local authority that, for example, is now in Kiev? Because we need to discuss this with you today, not only but the issue that will really create conditions for the creation and strengthening of local self-government in Ukraine. The political system that was actually introduced five years ago, it led to the degradation of local government, and we understand that very well with you. So I'm convinced that now it's an important question for us to go back to those draft changes to the Constitution that envisioned a comprehensive reform of local self-government and create those important influences so that the issues, socio-economic problems, can be solved in place. Because today, as is happening today in villages, villages, cities, areas of Ukraine, this is actually destroying the final confidence of people in general. So I want to convince you today and say that on this day of April 1st, not only did we make fun of this decision, but we should not be ridiculed by voters in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u64	Peter Melnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u65	None. Leonid Kojara. He's refusing to speak. Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, in fact, the continuation of the fantasmagorical situation that happens constantly in Parliament leads to sum, not laughter, although today is April 1. In fact, the authority of the city’s heads and the country’s heads has been completed. Today, everyone can charge the decisions signed by the village, the city’s head, bring them to trial and, in fact, these decisions will be illegal. In no way can we regulate the extension of the powers of rural and urban heads by law. We're just closing our eyes, pretending that nothing's happening, that we're not breaking the Constitution with you today. And certainly, to demand from an average citizen the implementation of the Constitution and the laws, I think it is unlikely that he has the right to be a national MP who behaves this way in relation to the Constitution of Ukraine, the basic law. Now, as far as the bill is concerned, and I understand that both the faction of the “Regions” and the faction of the “Julia Timoshenko” will unite and vote in favour of the bill. I am convinced that this bill does not systematically address those issues that have accumulated in local self-government. No one's putting anyone in the neck. If you're actually going to appoint elections on March 27th next year for rural, urban, and all MPs of all levels of local self-government, there's enough time in the Supreme Council to prepare a system-wide bill to make changes to local self-government elections. Then we're going to make a complex decision, and we're not going to talk about the sporadic movements that we're going to try to solve right now. In fact, we solve for a third the problems that arise in electoral law. We're putting the election system back on hold today before the election code. And we've made a decree for parliamentary hearings on this matter. But will there be a consensus on changing the electoral system or not? If there is no such consensus and the electoral system remains as it is now, there is nothing serious about this bill, these changes to the Constitution do not decide. We're stabilizing the situation that was, we're just dragging elections for a year, that's all. I think this bill, and I'm talking to the authors, needs to be postponed. Over the course of a week or two, prepare and introduce a system-wide bill that can be sent to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u67	John the Rabbit, last speech. Invite the deputies to the session room so that we can make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u68	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council has fallen into a situation from which the proposed bill does not give way. Therefore, the “good” word should be used to mention those deputies who reformed in 2004 and were in such a hurry that they forgot even to agree on the term of heads and local councils. [[“good” in paws]] By the way, I think we did something stupid when we continued the cadence and the Supreme Council continued, and local councils. It doesn't take five years, it takes four years. Because life requires a faster renewal of the political elite. Similarly, the good word should be used to refer to those deputies who postponed the election to local councils and thus gave rise to the problem that needs to be resolved. One of the deputies here said that the political nodes needed to be resolved. Yes, they must be solved but not cut. So far, we've seen cutting things apart. The bill does not answer at least 3 questions. First. At the constitutional level, there are no dates for the holding of elections to local councils and rural, village, city heads, as is done for the election of the President and the Supreme Council. So the field of volunteerism for Parliament remains in the future. The other one. The bill does not define the terms of office for the local councils of the heads of rural, rural, and urban areas to be elected after 2011. And you can't accept the logic that you know, we're going to assume that if you have another five years, the next five years are going to be the next ones. That's not the logic of the Constitution. The Constitution should be very clear about answers to such questions. And the third question. The bill does not solve the problem of a single term of heads and local councils, because after the 11th year, this fork starts again. Therefore, I do not think we should rush into adopting this bill, just remember that the Constitution is not written in haste and that the authorities must act in a manner defined by the Constitution and the law. So it seems to me that we're in a hurry today, that we're going to create new problems, that we're going to re-create legislation that will force the Supreme Council to go beyond the Constitution in 2011, and we don't have the answers to those questions. I don't think it's such a complicated norm that we can work on them. That is why I support those people's deputies who believe that it is not necessary to vote in favour of this bill right now, but rather to elaborate and submit a new bill and act in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u69	Dear National Deputies! The bill is closed, does the reporter insist on the closing word? No, it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Regarding the proposals that have been made in the plan that we need to finalize the bill, if we work on it, that means that there will be no elections at all, we will not make any decisions. That's the first one. The other one. Dear National Deputies! The Constitution does not provide for an election system and should not provide for it, because the Constitution is not a one-time application document and it is for those who say so to understand it. Third. Dear colleagues! Today we are considering sending a document to the Constitutional Court, after returning from the Constitutional Court, we will approach the document essentially, and we will have the opportunity to make appropriate clarifications and amendments. Including the ones we talked about, and we'll send them back to the Constitutional Court. It all depends on how we work. And just as important, we have to look twice at this session. Dear colleagues, one more moment for the election date. Everything depends on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when we make a decision, finally make it, we can make it more precise. This is the change to the Constitution, the electoral code that we have to work on and hold elections to really match the country's interests. And with regard to the national MP's repute, because the claim that he has a right to life, the colleagues of Zebrovsky, that anyone can go to trial and the illegality of local self-government will be recognized. On this point, there are two points, first, to which court to refer, because we have judges who no longer have the right to prosecute. And one more point is, we're in this decision, our honourable colleagues, we're legitimizing the activities of local self-government bodies, which continue their powers through the Supreme Council, which has failed to adopt the budget and not to make a negotiated decision on the holding of the elections. So let's correct this mistake and send the document to the Constitutional Court. Now, here's an offer to develop what the committee head said. We accept with you, Your Honor, not the law, we make a decision. In view of the importance of this decision, I will read it because it proposes adding a number of items, including the inclusion in the agenda of the day for the next session. And another is an appeal to the Constitutional Court, with a request, honourable colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, it's already been done with the lawyers. And the next moment is a request to the Constitutional Court to speed up the consideration of this document. So I'm going to read out the draft decree for the operative part. ‘First. To include in the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the sixth call for a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine since 3 March 2010, introduced by 150 people's deputies of Ukraine. [[on the terms of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads]] [[Registration number 4177]] The other one. Draft law amending the Constitution of Ukraine to refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to obtain a conclusion that it complies with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. [[on the terms of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads]] [[added]] Third. In order to ensure compliance with the constitutional procedure laid down in Chapter 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine should be placed in the order of the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion of the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. [[seventh]] [[on the terms of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads]] [[Registration number 4177]] Four. To invite the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to consider a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine as an urgent matter and to reach a conclusion on the bill by 15 June 2010. [[on the terms of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads]] [[Registration number 4177]] Fifth. This decision takes effect from the day it is adopted.” Please, from the procedure, Paul Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u70	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! But according to the procedure that we are now sending to the Constitutional Court, then the Constitutional Court is giving its opinion, and we have to accept this session in the first reading, and send it to the Constitutional Court, and then in the second reading, and finally we have to accept it in the seventh session -- then that's the right thing to do. And if we are with you on the first reading on the seventh, we will be able to accept in general only in the eighth session, until after the February month, Vladimir Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I explain. Now, you know what session we have. We're not suggesting to the Constitutional Court that we consider this question by June 15th, this session is going to be until July 9th, we have to look at it essentially. After we have considered it in fact, we will send it back to the Constitutional Court with a reckoning that by September 1st, the Constitutional Court will return to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If everything meets the requirements of the Constitutional Court, we will consider it in the next session and accept it definitively. No, we'll keep working. The proposal is now that, according to the Constitution, we include him in the next session. The extent to which we are going to consider this question is already up to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would ask my fellow Members not to give money, everything here is done as required by the Rules, and we will not be able to bring anything out of the voice. Please, Anatoly Gritsenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u72	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like you to check the text of the decision just read and verify it, because if there is a mistake, it would be wrong. You named the date of the introduction of the March 3th Bill, the documents you handed out here say, "In exchange for March 5th." Please provide clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u73	The point is, it's about getting into the agenda. I'm going to remind myself once again, "Let's put the bill in order," and it's about the date we put it in the agenda, today's the third number, right? Uh, 1st? Let me get this straight! I'm on it. Dear colleagues, all right, the bill's registration date is March 3rd. Well, I'm getting out of what I have, the option is March 3rd. Well, let's do it this way, I'm specifying the final date. And I thank you for noticing that. Dear colleagues, no warning to make a decision with this in mind? You don't? I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4177/P]] Please vote. [[11:24:15.]] For 401 Decisions were made. And once again, for the record, I've only talked to the Legal Department, in connection with Anatoly Grizzenka's remarks, with the refinement there by date, and thank you for your comments. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the draft decree, to the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on Reforming Ukraine's Legislation on Local Elections in the Interests of Territorial Communities. [[March 17, 2010]] The project has been completed. Sergey Podgorny. Dear colleagues, let's make a quick decision here, taking into account the processing. Is there a Sergey Podgorny? Yes, there is. Turn on the microphone. Yeah? No, it's not. Here comes Sergey the Upper.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, Your Honor, the constituencies! In accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on 17 March, considered proposals and amendments from the legislators' right to legislative initiative to the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on "Reforming Ukrainian Legislation on Local Elections in the Interest of Territorial Communities" adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 March 2010. [[Registration number 6092]] The committee dealt with 11 proposals by Ukrainian national deputies for a draft ruling, 10 of which were taken into account in whole or in part. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 3 of part one of article 123 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings on the subject “Reforming Ukrainian legislation on local elections for the benefit of the territorial communities” following a second reading of the adoption of the second reading and in general. In doing so, we are informed that the preparation for the second reading of the draft decree is being initiated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority with observations. The substance of the remarks is, firstly, to give parliamentary hearings, and secondly, to the procedure for inviting senior officials of the State to parliamentary hearings. According to part two of article 233 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, parliamentary hearings are held during the sessional period, usually not more than once a month on the day of the week spent working on committees, MP factions. That is, a strict and unequivocal requirement is to hold parliamentary hearings only during the sessional period. As regards the question of the determination of periodicity and the week of parliamentary hearings, the regulatory rule includes the term “as a rule”. Parliament thus has every opportunity, depending on specific social and political conditions, to determine another week of parliamentary hearings than a week of committee work. Moreover, the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is of a political and legal nature, and the issue of reforming electoral legislation, primarily as part of regulating local elections, has become one of the main political problems not only of the national machinery but also of the entire Ukrainian society. The main requirement of article 233 is that the hearings be held during the sessional period. On May 12th, they are not part of the intersessional holidays, but they are part of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that parliamentary hearings have already taken place during the weeks of plenary meetings. For example, on December 2, 2009, parliamentary hearings were held during the plenary week on “The State of Freedom of Speech in Regional Media”. It should also be said that article 6 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, mentioned in the comments, refers to the procedure for invitations to the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But parliamentary hearings are not plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They are subject to very different rules of the Rules than plenary meetings. This is evident even from the definition of part one of article 233 of the Rules, which states that parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council are conducted with a view to studying issues of social interest and requiring legislative settlement. The fact that the issue of reforming electoral legislation in local elections deserves priority social interest and no doubt about it. In view of its scale and unwavering state importance for the future of our country and it was suggested that we hear the perspective of the relevant problems of the President of Ukraine as Heads of State and the guarantor of the observance of the Constitution of Ukraine, the rights and freedoms of citizens. Thus, the reference to article 6 of the Rules in part to the invitation of the President of Ukraine seems to us to be artificial. I also inform you that the draft regulation prepared for the second reading, which means that today you can consider the amendments that are here, and then vote it for the second reading and for the whole. And I would also like to point out, my fellow Members, that yesterday we already have a committee, given that we have such a goal that we are going to take this decision today, we have already considered this issue and proposed that the committee approve the work plan for the next meeting. So I suggest we now follow the amendments that are and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u75	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment No. 1 has been counted. Is there no objection to it? By 2nd? Counted. Is there no objection? Third count. No objections? Four counts. No objections? The fifth is also included. The sixth amendment was rejected. Don't you insist on her? It's to invite the President, head and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u76	It's your repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u77	It's rejected, it's an amendment. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Well, in my opinion, it would be very unfair if we were to command the President as well. We have a legislative branch of power, we have an executive, a president, a judicial branch of power. These are equivalent equivalents, branches of power. And it would be appropriate and correct, demonstrating both the culture, the political culture, and the politeness, to ask the President to send his representative here and to speak at these hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u79	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u80	Thus, the amendment of the Chechtchev People’s Deputy Committee has been carefully considered. Considering that there is still an amendment to the seventh national deputy of Klukkowski, I think there will be a compromise. So, in the final edition, it is proposed to invite the President of Ukraine, the Head and the members of the Central Electoral Commission to participate and speak at parliamentary hearings. In our opinion, this formulation is more balanced and the President will decide how he will respond to this invitation. He will personally participate in plenary hearings or direct some of his experts. So we think that just in the table, you should probably write that you have partially or editorially adjusted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, come here, it says here that the amendment is rejected. On the other hand, paragraph 3 of the draft decree was proposed by the Chechtov People’s Deputy. To invite the President of Ukraine to appoint a representative to take part in the debate on this issue at parliamentary hearings. Keep going. To invite the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Head of the All-U.S. Association of Local Self-Government Authorities, “The Association of Cities of Ukraine” to participate in and speak at parliamentary hearings. So we have to put this amendment to the vote. Is that how it works?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u82	Well, we could put it to a vote, but the committee offered another paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u83	Count it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u84	No, we suggested, the amendment of Klukkowski is 7, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the committee has suggested that I understand this: to invite the president, the head and the members of the Central Electoral Commission to participate in the parliamentary hearings. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u86	Yes, we believe that the President himself will determine how to respond to this invitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u87	So let's now put the honourable colleagues to the vote in this sequence: first the amendment of the Chechtov People's Deputies for support, and then put the committee to a vote. Understand? Therefore, I read the amendment by Chechtov Mikhail Vasilovich: Paragraph 3 of the draft decree reads: “To invite the President of Ukraine to appoint a representative to participate in and address the mentioned question at parliamentary hearings. Four. To invite the head of the Central Election Commission of Ukraine, the head of the All-U.S. Association of Local Self-Government Authorities to participate and speak at parliamentary hearings. [[Association of Ukrainian Cities]] In this context, paragraphs 4 to 7 are considered to be paragraphs 5 to 8 respectively. I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. Please cancel the vote. Anatoly Matvienko. They canceled the vote. Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u88	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” Block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich and Mr. Mikhailo Chechetov, there is only the Association of Cities. We have three associations. So it would be more correct to write to all associations and invite them to participate, because the advantage of one association is not exactly a valid formula in your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, in general, we would have done the right thing if we had taken a decision and determined the date when we were holding parliamentary hearings. At parliamentary hearings, we will write letters and invite everyone to parliamentary hearings. Otherwise, we're going to leave someone offended in this regard. So I'd like to propose positions that apply to whom to invite, delete, set a date, the main task of parliamentary hearings, and that will be normal. Please, does this committee support you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u90	So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think then the commission of the committee is to decide with the list of invited and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, so the request is: let's set a date, they've offered us who we have, this is the point here. We have determined the dates, paragraph 2 of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, “to take the necessary steps to ensure the organizational provision of parliamentary hearings”. Let's do everything else. delete everything and then leave the point: recommend to the National Broadcasting Company and the National Council in the company with the participation of the Information Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure direct broadcast of parliamentary hearings on the first national channel of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the First National Channel of the National Radio Company of Ukraine in an orderly manner. Another point: “The administration of the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure proper preparation for parliamentary hearings”. And that would meet all our requirements. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the committee would agree, but the third paragraph should be left where the deadline for submitting documents to parliamentary hearings is 20 April.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u93	Yes, and the third paragraph: “Propose to the Central Electoral Commission, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and other interested parties by 20 April 2010 to prepare and submit proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on how to reform Ukraine's legislation on local elections”. Let him stay. Let me take this into account. I'm going to read the draft decision itself so that we can have full understanding. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary hearings on “Reforming Ukrainian legislation on local elections for the benefit of territorial communities”. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. To hold parliamentary hearings on 12 May 2010 in the Chamber of Plenary Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the theme “Reforming Ukrainian legislation on local elections in the interests of territorial communities”. The other one. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to take the necessary steps to ensure that parliamentary hearings are conducted. [[Well, here we have to write "The Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine"]] Third. Invite the Central Election Commission, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and other interested parties to prepare and submit proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on how to reform Ukraine's legislation on local elections by 20 April 2010. Point four. Recommend the National. More specifically, the fourth point is: “The National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine, with the participation of the Information Office of the Supreme Council, to provide, in an orderly manner, a direct broadcast of parliamentary hearings on the First National Channel of the National Television of Ukraine and the First National Channel of the National Radio Company of Ukraine.” And the fifth item, the last, is the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide funding for the expenses required for the organization and conduct of the parliamentary hearings, the stenography and the publication of parliamentary hearings by parliamentary publishing. And the last. This decision takes effect from the moment it was published. No objection from the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u94	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u95	Please, Mikola Catherinechuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u96	The European Party of Ukraine, Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Mikhailovich, on this decision, we now have over 60 legislative initiatives registered in Parliament today from different factions. But these parliamentary hearings, they don't just have to be a meaningful part of it. In addition to making their proposals, let's say, representatives of local self-government bodies, public organizations, I think, I think we have to say honestly that we have two concepts: whether it's a major system or an open list. And if the committee and we pointed out in this regulation, if there's a consensus in the room, they've identified it as a major system, then the proposals for improvement and elections on the majority system, if the lists are open, then on open lists. Because it's just going to gather this hearing, it's just going to talk, everything else, and then the committee's going to figure it out. And yet we're going to go into political consensus, so my suggestion is to make this draft rulings, however, a concept of how we're going to conduct these, let's say.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u97	Dear, distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u98	The purpose of parliamentary hearings is to determine the concept.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, then we will not have to hold parliamentary hearings but simply go to the electoral code. The whole problem is that we need, in the course of parliamentary hearings, public debates, to determine what the electoral system is going to be, is the root of the problem. And it is at the parliamentary hearings that political parties, not only those in parliament, must obviously be widely represented, but those outside Parliament are the voices of the people. Mikhailo Chechetov on this subject, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u100	Vladimir Mihajlovich, well, with all due respect to the European Party, to its leader, well, we can't drive right into the stall. Let people talk, talk, talk, generate new ideas, fresh proposals. The fact that we're stuck here with you, here, under the dome of Parliament, and there will be completely different people here. On that basis, there will already be recommendations or decisions, recommendations of parliamentary hearings, which we will approve. There might be something you can write out. And you don't have to drive anyone in front of you. We're not gonna build the Soviet Union here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u101	Ruslan Knyazevich, and we will vote. This is a discussion, dear colleagues. This is the second reading, there can be no discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u102	I think maybe it's something like this right now a counter-revolutionary thesis. But it seems to me that we can even consider the electoral code in advance only after the parliamentary hearings. Why? Because this draft electoral code provides for a majority system. And if we're going to figure out what the other system is going to be, then there's no point even looking at it, we have to radically, fundamentally recycle it. So there may be a point, however, to put the chariot ahead of the horse, to listen first, to draw conclusions, and then to consider matters in substance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u103	Now, let's do it again, you'll say it in the end. Yuri Carmazin, then the committee's opinion, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Dear National MPs, I surely agree with what Chechetov colleague said that the voice of the people should be heard. But we can't and we can't reject all the legislative initiatives that are being done and introduced here today. Surely, then, we need to hear the voice of the people. For the sake of sounding good, I ask that I remain to give the part to Mikola Catherinechuku, so that he may continue with his opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u105	Mikola Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u106	I'd like to say from the voice of the people, Michael Chechchev. That when the Party of Regions went to the elections, including the presidential ones, you promised a major election system. That is why today we are talking about what has changed your mind. I'm not driving anyone into a standstill because it's not in the principles of the European Party of Ukraine. Yet, I would still like you to keep your preelection promises.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you in the session room that we are taking a decision with you to refer to the Constitutional Court the draft law that we have amended today. [[Unfortunately, sometimes MPs don't come and then show their innovations.]] The other one. We hold parliamentary hearings on May 12th to accept recommendations after parliamentary hearings, including the key question: What should be the electoral system? Then we have a review of the draft electoral code law, and we have agreed that we will accept it for re-reading so that we can finally reconcile the position on the electoral system. Then we take it as a basis for the holiday, clearly defining the electoral system and ensuring the order of our work. Therefore, the request to support the committee’s proposal. And the final word of the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! As the committee considered all the issues related to electoral legislation in the complex worked out this order for itself, parliamentary hearings on local council elections, rural, village heads, on May 12th. Moreover, the committee decided that a round table, a presentation of the electoral code, would be held on April 28. And we invite everyone to participate in this round table. After that, when the idea of the electoral system in the local elections is really concentrated, the electoral code can be considered, indeed, and it can be sent back to the first reading with a specific direction on which the electoral system can be stopped, both by the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and by the local elections. Only then will it really be possible to make a decision. I just want to remind you that more than a year ago, as the committee sends letters to the faction leaders, to the Conciliation Council to identify and say that today there is a political will in the Supreme Council to stop this political electoral system. Unfortunately, there are no answers for today, so we think that these parliamentary hearings really will give us that answer, or they will bring us closer to that answer. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal for a committee on adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a decision on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings on the topic “Reforming Ukrainian legislation on local elections for the benefit of territorial communities” on 12 May in an editorial that I set out and we agreed with you. [[Registration number 6092]] Please vote. [[11:47:55]] For 388 Decision taken. Anatoly Matvienko from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u110	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I apologize, but I think we've spent a lot of time on local self-government and the proper order of their formation and elections. Today, we have a problem, and you've been giving orders that there's not going to be a hundred appropriate out-of-order elections. If we focus on March 2011 it is a gross violation of the Constitution. In six months, we may not announce elections, and in a year, we have no right not to announce elections where these elections need to be held. Therefore, it is obvious that it is necessary to give the commission and that the Supreme Council should know and determine when we vote on such elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at 12:30, we will consider the question of appointment, the dismissal of judges, and then we will vote on a huge array of draft decisions for simultaneous elections. Dear colleagues, the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings in the Agenda "On the Status and Perspectives of Secondary, Vocational and Higher Education in Ukraine" is now under review. [[Registration numbers 6075, 6075-D]] Perhaps you supported the offer to consider these issues in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this motion for consideration of the shortened procedure for draft regulations. [[Registration numbers 6075, 6075-d]] [[11:49:56]] For 315 The rapporteur is Yuri Karmazin and head of the Committee on Science and Education, Polohalo Vladimir Ivanovich. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u112	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies! I, along with the people's deputies: Zarubinski, Scherban, Yavorowski and Gordijenko, made a decree on 17 February on the holding of parliamentary hearings in an orderly manner: “On the state and prospects of the development of secondary, vocational and higher education in Ukraine”. I emphasize that this happened on February 17th because we planned on March 17 so that parliamentary hearings could be held. Given that it only started to be considered now, and today April 1st, obviously the date here has to be changed, and we have to put June 9th where we have the free space. Now the question is that we are proposing with a number of national MPs that I have called, and thank them for their cooperation, to organize issues more broadly, much broader than the committee now suggests. Because the committee will only propose the introduction of 12-year-old general secondary education in school. We also propose that we invite both the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine to participate and speak at parliamentary hearings, because this is an extremely important issue. And the purpose of these parliamentary hearings is also to discuss a wide range of problems related to the introduction of a 12-year term and to get from the educational community and civil society representatives a state analysis of both secondary education and secondary vocational education in Ukraine. I'll remind you that in 2003, we made a decision on secondary vocational education, and as a result, it's not being implemented and no recommendations have been made so far. The aim is also to identify priorities for the development of modern forms and mechanisms for the management of the education sector in order to provide quality and competitive education to Ukrainian citizens and to increase the income of the State, the teaching community.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u113	Finish it, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u114	Established by other states. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have to choose which decision to choose. It's actually two approaches, two world-viewed approaches: whether to address this issue more broadly about the state and prospects of development of secondary, vocational and higher education in Ukraine, or just to consider 12-year-olds. I think it's a complex question, and we need to listen to and educate, hear the voice of the people and make the right conclusions ourselves, to then adopt the right legislative acts and determine, to be fashion lawmakers, in those issues that excite society today, and they excite it at the level that you see, there are demonstrations now and everything else. Now all the questions have to be resolved here in the hall, not in the squares and in the demonstrations. Thank you for your attention, please support our colleagues Zarubinski, Scherban, Yavorowski, Gordijenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u115	Thank you. I invite the Deputy Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Stephen Dawimuk, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u116	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The subject of parliamentary hearings, as proposed in the 6075 Resolution, covers too many questions. General secondary, vocational and higher education, as components of education systems in Ukraine, have different structures, goals and objectives, management systems, content, etc. Thus, we feel that it is inappropriate to combine these education systems in one of our hearings. In addition, in carrying out its supervisory functions, the Supreme Council of Ukraine over the past years, through parliamentary hearings and the days of the Government of Ukraine, approved the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status and prospects of the development of vocational and technical education in Ukraine, on the status and prospects of the development of higher education in Ukraine and on the prospects for the development of general secondary education, which are not out of control, and the status of their implementation is constantly reviewed by our committee and its monitoring procedures at its meetings. At the same time, I would like to remind you that during the consideration of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 16, 2010, a discussion on the issue was opened. [[on the introduction of a 10-year period of education for secondary education]] At that time, it was suggested that we study the matter perfectly. And to carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhajlovich Litvin, 18 February by the National Deputies, members of the Committee on Science and Education, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was prepared and introduced on the day-to-day parliamentary hearings: “Implementation of 12-year general secondary education in Ukraine. Problems and ways to overcome them.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u117	Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u118	2010 Report completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u119	You all have it, don't you? Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? If they're willing, sign up, no, we'll vote. By May 15th, right? Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Catherine Samuel, please. Then Mikhailo Kosov. And, dear colleagues, in view of the factions' leaders at 12 o'clock, we're going to have a meeting of the Conciliation Council. I'm asking the faction leaders to meet me in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I address all of you, and Vladimir Mikhailovich, to you. It was indeed the task of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after discussing the introduction of a 10-year teaching term on the need for a broad discussion of this particular issue. I want to point out that we have held a series of parliamentary hearings and committee hearings, where all the questions raised in our ruling by Yuri Anatoliyovich have already been raised. We have accepted parliamentary recommendations, by the way, not all of these recommendations have yet been implemented. It refers primarily to the adoption of laws that are appropriate, and the commission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the commission of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. So there's a need to not make parliamentary hearings just salt or venegret, and talk about everything, and not figure out the basics of a particular issue. There is a proposal, a consolidated proposal by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, as well as by the Ministry of Education and Science on hearing a short but very important question for the future of our education. And I'm talking to the Ukrainian National Deputies, and I want to say that this is the issue that the committee is proposing, which has been discussed and expressed, and at the broad meeting of the Rectors' Association of Higher Education Institutions, that is, we have an additional commission. So I propose that you all support our committee's decision and hold parliamentary hearings on issues and perspectives.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u121	Please finish. Mikhailo Kossov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u122	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. It is in such a complex as this that the question of parliamentary hearings is long overdue. You can't put one thing in this chain that's important or more important, because both in society and in the Supreme Council committees, it's been a long time since we've discussed whether the transition to secondary education, the secondary education chain, was properly done for 12 years of education. A great many and even anecdotic sensations of all kinds have been expressed in this regard. There are very serious suggestions that secondary education be reintroduced into a ten - year period. But this requires a broad public, public opinion. Because even so, what to do with school programs, how to develop them for 10 years, or how to develop them for 12 years. After all, secondary education now has nothing to do with higher education. What to do with what's being discussed as widely as the final exams are being conducted, either by the old system or by leaving an external independent test conducted by the previous Ministry of Education and Science. These are all problems that have a broad social resonance, as we now have to read the publications in our press that return to the exams gives us reason to appear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u123	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u124	The hearing should be conducted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. A faction that has not spoken is entitled to one minute. Please, Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u126	Vladimir Karpuk, Party “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, really, it's a question that has a wide public voice in society and now especially needs a really professional conversation. Yet I would like to support Yuri Karmazin's bill on the state and prospects of secondary technical or higher education. Of course, it is possible to hold a scientific conference of some sort where there are educational staff. We have to make political decisions, but it really does find political feedback in society. All of these, all of this education is interconnected. It is closely related. Therefore, it is not possible to consider only a 12-year term of education without reforming higher education without vocational and technical education. That's why we're going to support and I'm asking you to support the Karmazin bill, vote and really lead the professional life.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! The discussion is closed. Let's go to the vote. The first will be the draft decree, by Yuri Karmazin and a whole group of colleagues, Zarubinski, Szczerbán, Yavorowski, Gordijenko. This is registration number 6075. All I'm suggesting is that you, your honor, take into account such clarifications when voting. First. To hold parliamentary hearings on June 9th. Because on March 17 they're impossible, you know. In the second paragraph, invite the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to submit the necessary materials by April 19. Finally, I propose to delete, as we have done in the previous decision, paragraphs 4 and 5, those are the tasks that the committee should do. And renumber the following items accordingly. Taking these proposals into account, I put to the vote the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 6075, authors: People's Deputies Karmazin, Zarubinsky, Scherbán, Yavorowski, Gordijenko, on the holding of parliamentary hearings with the agenda on the status and prospects of the development of secondary, vocational and higher education in Ukraine. [[March 19, 2010]] I'm betting on this motion for a draft ruling as a ruling, please vote. [[12:04:23]] For-73 The decision is not taken. A draft decree by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, is now being put to the vote. [[Registration number 6075-D]] I propose that, honourable colleagues, before putting this ruling to a vote, delete it, and please agree with the committee head, paragraph 4, and after changing the next number on who to invite to parliamentary hearings. It's a technical issue and it doesn't need a settlement. No objections? Taking this into account, I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings with the agenda “Implementation of 12-year general secondary education in Ukraine. [[Registration number 6075-d]] Problems and ways to overcome them” for adoption of the project as a solution. [[12:05:39]] For 364 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, such an offer. Since we have yet another draft of the Parliamentary Hearings Order on “The prospects for Ukraine's entry into the Customs Union with the participation of Belarus, Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation on 21 April 2010”. [[Registration number 6162]] It can be that way. Dear colleagues, one minute. I'm asking for your attention! So I would suggest that we vote now for the interruption of inclusion in the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. Dear colleagues, it is your business to vote or not. I'll put it on the agenda if the Supreme Council does. Just a minute. If the Supreme Council supports it, then I'll set it up after the break to consider it as a reduced procedure. Adam Martinyuk, please. I'm asking you today, Thursday and you know which one, so calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u128	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Communist faction, Martinyuk. Dear colleagues, don't listen to any regular provocations. No relation to the issue that we are now to consider has to do with the fact that it is not included in the order of the day. Before the day began, you and I discussed other issues that were unfortunately not supported by the session hall. This question is included in the agenda, it needs to be considered without asking the question of inclusion in the agenda. You've got something wrong, dear fellows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, we've settled here with Mikola Tomenko and Adam Ivanovich has absolute logic, it's included in the agenda. That's a very different question. So I'm going to put a motion for a vote to consider the draft ruling after the break. Well, now it's a break. Please vote. The draft regulation is a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 6162]] Otherwise, dear colleagues, we will consider the question of judges, the question of rulings, and today we will not consider this draft decree. You don't want to. With this in mind, I'm putting to the vote the proposal that we take the decision to consider it as a reduced procedure, at 12:40, we've considered the issue, and then we've moved on to the question of judges. Oh, no? Then it will be considered: Judges, decrees for early elections, and then we will come to that question or not. I'm voting on this issue for a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 6162]] After the break, after the break. At 12:40. [[12:08:46]] For 204 Decision taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes. Faction leaders, please come to the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u130	We continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. I would like to remind you that you and I have adopted a decision: in a short, shorter procedure, to consider the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The prospects for Ukraine's entry into the Customs Union with the participation of the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation" is a project by Peter Simonenka. And once we've discussed the ruling, let's be clear about the decision, let's move on to our question about judges. The short procedure does not take long, I apologize to our colleagues who have come to the meetings of the Supreme Council. So I would like to invite Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka to speak on his initiative to hold parliamentary hearings. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich. Tkachenko will report to Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, as of January 1, 2010, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia have become subject to a single customs tariff. As of July 1, the provisions of the Law, the Customs Code of the three countries, will enter into force. So I suggested that we hold parliamentary hearings here in Parliament and consider the matter. I came out of the following, first of all, the customs union provides for the only customs territory within which goods produced within this territory are not subject to customs and economic restrictions, except for certain goods, so let's say that they are offering. Secondly, the parties use a single customs tariff and other single measures to regulate trade with third countries. That is, with the participation of other countries, we could defend our interests. Thirdly, the creation of this alliance aims to expand the internal market. And the important effect for the Ukrainian producer is also the broad possibilities of production cooperation, which is also a positive one that we could use. Fifthly, the customs union, the customs union, firstly in the middle of this customs union, all the trade barriers disappear. In this case, the World Trade Organization supports such a position. The calculations that have been made and justified, including those made by the Institute of National Economy forecasting of the Russian Academy of Sciences on the basis of a combined inter-branch balance of 4 countries with Ukraine, give us reason to think today that since the joint trade, about 15 to 17 percent of the gross domestic product increase over 5 years. It is also expected that the combined integrated effect from the creation of the Customs Union alone will amount to $400 billion. There is also a benefit for us. And I'd also like to say that in a crisis, there's going to be a positive flow of competition inside.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u132	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u133	I'm finishing up, one sentence. And especially within this union, it is planned to share all the goods, including oil and gas at the domestic prices of the producer country. This is also of great importance in these conditions of energy security in Ukraine. And the last sentence. I would like to suggest, fellow Members, first and foremost, that we support the holding of parliamentary hearings so that we can, in fact, conduct an examination of this subject with benefits both positive and negative for our own Ukraine. Therefore, I ask you to support this proposal and hold parliamentary hearings on the very prospect of Ukraine joining the Customs Union with the participation of the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation. And to remove the problem when individual parts, especially representing some of the financial and industrial clans, are using this very issue in the interests of the state of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u134	I'd like you to present the committee's position to the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the question raised today by national MP Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, is certainly a vital issue for our nation. Because Ukraine, by going through 19 years of independence and working in that regime that was before the election of the new President and the composition of the new Cabinet of Ministers, we see that we have lost the positions that we had before. And we lost those positions not only because we ran the state without skill, but because we lost our partners, those countries that contributed most to the development of our economy. And Ukraine by the year 90, you remember, there were five economic indicators on the continent of Europe. So I think that the question raised by the Communist faction by the National MP Simonenko is certainly relevant and deserves attention. On behalf of the committee, I think we should consider supporting it, and this will enable Ukraine to actually carry out the mission that God and nature rely on it. Because the Ukrainian land, the Ukrainian people, cannot live in poverty and the incomprehensible system before that. If we join this alliance, Ukraine will certainly take a decent place and in the next five years we will become one of the leading nations on the European continent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u136	Thank you. Please register, I remind you of two "for", two "against". Please show me. Katerina Samoylik, a faction of Communists to prepare Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! I think you've all felt when you approved the head of the government, Mikola Janovich Azarov, and when the issue of the customs union was raised, a mixed situation in the hall, both on the left and on the right. And this usually calls for a broad discussion of this issue because the right Alexander Mikolaiovich, not taking into account the realities that Ukraine is living in today, we usually cannot build both our own internal policies and our own external policies. And that's why we need to hold parliamentary hearings, we need to check our personal positions, our political positions, our positions of expertise, our positions of both government officials, our positions of scientists, and our positions of public opinion on this very important issue. And only by discussing this issue, and with that thought in mind, will we speak, the general opinion of our society, can we go to making concrete decisions. To make this a decision, not a specific political party, but to make it clear from the state, so that this decision is consistent with those experts who are deeply aware of the matter. So I propose and call upon all the Ukrainian national deputies, regardless of their political affiliation, to vote in favour, to vote in favour of the draft decision. And I think that this sort of credulity of positions is only going to be a positive result.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u138	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, next is Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u139	Shevchuku, please pass the word, Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u140	Sergey Shevchuk, please come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u141	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, three representatives of the Communist Party spoke before me, and all three were not only dishonest, but I would say even hypocritical. I want to remind you that discussions about a free trade zone in the SND have been going on since the 1990s, in the mid-1990s. I want to remind you that the Ukrainian Parliament then ratified this proposal, unlike the Russian State Duma, which has not yet ratified. Why? And all because Russia has always added a list of exceptions and restrictions to economic agreements that have destroyed any economic interests of our state, that's exactly what will happen in this case. I mean, the honorable radio listeners, I'd like you to understand it's not about economic issues, it's about political issues, it's about creating in the future an absurd single state from the customs union, it's about the defence union, it's about the creation of the one imperial state they dream about in the Kremlin, it's about this chain. Therefore, I am convinced that most representatives of the Ukrainian Parliament understand very well what it means to involve Ukrainian parliamentarians, Ukrainian society in discussing this issue, perhaps someone who believes in these promises and agrees. But it is not about uniting nations, not about uniting economic efforts, that is, in fact, about Ukraine’s further division. Because the vast majority of Ukraine’s inhabitants understand the subtlety of this approach, and they will never agree to such adventures. I don't want to predict right now that this is the beginning of that path that could lead to developments that took place in Czechoslovakia -- when the state collapsed at best, in a worse case, an example of Yugoslavia. And even worse, the example of Abkhazia and Georgia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u142	Thank you, Vladimir Karpuk conveys the word Viacheslav Kirilenko, next will be Gregory Smythuch and will be identified. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u143	Viacheslav Kirilenko, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues! Obviously, friendship is needed in such a way that it is more advantageous than anything else to the Ukrainian independent state. Now, in the case of Russia, we're comfortable with the Free Trade Agreement, but without exception, when our people can trade their goods and services there so that it's convenient for the Ukrainian economy, for our workers. By the way, most of all, the economy of the South and the East of Ukraine and that makes a profit to the state budget. Unfortunately, the Russian Federation always offers all new exceptions to the free trade agreement. Because he cares about his national interest. And it suggests a reverse step, which is the customs union. But we can look at the already active customs union practice. For example, between the Russian Federation and Belarus there is not only a customs union, there is a federal state even. Thus, the gas dispute between Moscow and Minsk lasted a year and ended with Belarus having to pay for 50 percent of the Russian Federation's Beltransgasus, and then the next 50 percent will also be handed over to Moscow and Belarus will lose its gas transport system. There's a customs union and such a federal state. Now there is a “second series. ” Russia set import duties on oil for Belarus, with which it has an allied relationship. And President Belarus Lukashenko instead of taking oil to Russia, with which he has a customs union, goes to Venezuela -- to Venezuela! - to President Hugo Chavez, there's an oil deal. [[de Belarus, de Venezuela]] This is how the customs union of Russia and Belarus already works, and so is the allied state of Russia and Belarus. We are invited to join, sorry, this “economic absurdity” so far. I'm not talking about that anymore, but who's going to be collecting customs on the borders, and whether there's going to be the Ukrainian Civil Service, how we're going to pay for this superstate body that's going to collect our duties, and all that. This is a complete defeat of Ukrainian national interests! So I think it's a question of even listening at the expense of the budget. We're proposing a rejection, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u144	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. You don't? Oh, here goes, please. I'm sorry. I didn't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, I support the inclusion of this decision and will support it with a vote to enable it to be discussed. We're talking about parliamentary hearings, not about someone being forced to enter. That's the first question. And the second question. In my opinion, as national MPs and we as a state, or as government officials responsible for the development of the country, we should be guided by one, so to speak. Do we need new markets, do we need to develop an economy in Ukraine, or do we need to increase the welfare of the population, or do we need others to protect our interests, including trade? I'm sure you do. And let's do, let's see what we've lost over the past 19 years. We've lost almost Russian markets to a lot of goods, we've lost access to normal cheap raw materials and much more. But thanks to our efforts, including Parliament, we force our workers to work there illegally in Russia, including for this reason. So I, I would like us to be guided always, is it convenient for the state, or isn't it convenient? In my opinion, it's convenient. And if we talk about what the previous colleague said, who will gather? So take statistics, look at the transit of goods, see that Ukraine is a transit state, that there are 5 international corridors in Ukraine, and these corridors are linked to the Eurasian connection, and most of these corridors are connected to the Russian ones, and only on these corridors will Ukraine increase its revenues. Look at the research provided by specialists, and they clearly say that Ukraine will get a positive. And if I'm positive, that's an extra budget coming up. Not just la-la, la-la. Patriots are not just patriots who shout here in the rostrum, but patriots are the ones who increase the acquisitions of the Ukrainian people, which increase their funding opportunities for education, science, culture and so on. So I ask you to support this bill. More than that, he speaks of hearings, not introductions. And then when we go in, we're going to write it in a way that protects national interests, not national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u146	Thank you. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u147	Not like in 1991 we signed the Bilateral Relations Agreement and the equal division of Soviet acquisition of the Union, and as a result we got nothing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, don't deny it, because Alexander Mikolayovich said, instead of the committee, I looked at it, but I was considering the matter of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to inform Taras Cnerwell for a minute, and Peter Mikolayovich then, before the moment is over, we will vote. Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u149	Mr. Chairman, my fellow countrymen, I would like to present our position from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In general, when we report laws where there are others, committees, we always issue their position, their opinion. Unfortunately, the position of our committee was not represented, so hasty. Our position, we don't mind hearing, we don't mind determining our position, but the date proposed means it's going to be a political show, not listening to the problem. And in order not to put the Cabinet of Ministers in a position not to do so, not to put the President, who, by this principle, is making his own proposals and conclusions from this position today, we have proposed. Above all, hold consultations with the Cabinet of Ministers, where, after our hearings, the decision-making corridor will obviously be narrowed down and the question will arise, and that the areas of free trade with the European Union and the further work we do in the WTO will be the first. And the second. Conduct the committee first. Inter-committee hearings at which.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u150	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u151	in which to actually hold an expert discussion and then bring to the Supreme Council Hall the question of holding parliamentary hearings. So we don't do too much bear service to the new president and the new prime minister today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u152	Thank you, Taras Viacheslavovich. Peter Simonenko, please. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u153	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable comrades! Once again, I would like to draw attention to what we are proposing to hold a parliamentary hearing. And I would like to ask you today to draw attention to the fact that this kind of practice, as my opponents are trying to present, is a ban, in fact, on the discussion of positions and views in general, is a ban. At the same time, the Law on Basic Principles of Internal and External Policy was broken and today they are trying to do so by volunteering either to limit Ukraine to other States' interests from the perspective of development or to satisfy someone's ambitions. I therefore proposed holding parliamentary hearings to determine what prospects in our external relations might be useful for Ukraine. About the date. Dear colleagues, I have not accidentally told you that since 01 July, the Customs Code of the three States and our producers who will lose the market will then ask us these questions. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u154	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u155	I would consider it possible to hold a parliamentary hearing and to some extent define the criteria for how we will proceed further, what with the European Union, what with the Customs Union, because we have already joined the WTO. You didn't listen to the communists. How did this all end?Oh, my God! Where is the economic justification?Oh, my God! Where are the calculations?Oh, my God! Where is the prospect for Ukraine?Oh, my God! She's gone! You're just being patriotic, not patriots of the people of Ukraine. Here we will have the opportunity to hear, to feel, to receive, and only then will we be able to properly and legally determine Ukraine's perspective.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! We'll make decisions. I am voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on “The prospects for Ukraine to join the Customs Union with the participation of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation” as a basis. [[April 21, 2010]] [[Registration number 6162]] And if we make a decision, we'll consult on a date. Please vote. [[13:08:01]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 166, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 2, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 4, Communists - 26, Litvina Block - 19, non-fractional - 1. Honorable colleagues, move to the question of the election and release of judges. I invite you to report to the chairman of the Justice Committee, Sergio Vasilovich Kiwalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u157	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, distinguished members of the people, the honourable ones present! The Supreme Council Committee on Justice held its meetings on 10 and 31 March this year considered the submission of the Chief Justice, the heads of the higher specialized courts on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis and the election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis, and the submission of the High Council of Justice on the release of judges from office. You are well aware of the procedure. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, the committee invites us to work in accordance with whatever decisions you have. And by every decision, as we usually do, if the national MPs propose to exclude a candidate from the list, we'll exclude it, we'll vote in favour, then we'll look at it separately. If there are no warnings, we will proceed to consider the relevant regulations. Please, Sergey Vasilovich. 6170, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u159	The committee recommends that the judges be elected without delay: the Court of Appeal of Ternopil district of Stavurska Natalija Borisovna; The railway district court of Simferopol Vorobyov Svetlana Alexandrovna; The Lutsky District Court of Wallin County of Barchuk Volodymyr Mikolaiovich; Dniprovsky District Court of Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska District of Baybaru Grigori Antoliyovich, Antonovich, excuse me; The Selidium City Court of the Donetsk district of Kanishtiv Natalija Alexandrovna; Starobeshesov District Court of the Donetsk Region of Dmitri Aleksandra Fedorovich; Central City District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region Kosev Olen Anatoliyevna; Kalininsky District Court of Donetsk Tokariev Natal Mikolayovna; Zitomir District Court of the Zitomir District of Chernyavsk Mikhail Vasilovich; The Krasnolutsky City Court of Luhansk Region of Chekhov Eugene Mikolaiovich and Jantsovsk Tetjan Mikolayevna; The ship's district court of Mikolayeva Kuturlanov Olena Vitaliyevna; The Archesian District Court of Odessa District of Crikun Mikhail Petrovich; The Lochvice District Court of the district district of Segeta Jaroslav Sergiyyovich; Kyiv District Court of Poltava Jakovenko Natalija Leonidivna And Turkenko thetasian Valentine's Day; The Borschev District Court of Ternopil district of Denisova Tamar Stepanovna; The Balakli district court of Kharkiv district of Tchaik Irina Volodymyrna; The Provincial District Court of Harkov Stich Tetyana Vasilovna; Kharkova Melnik Irina Mikolayovna District Court of Cominternov. The Moscow District Court of Harkov Harchenko Allu Mikolayevna; Ordjonikidev District Court of Harkov Izmailov Ildar Kamilovich; The French District Court of Kharkiv Bobko Tetjan Valerievna; The Red Farm District Court of Kharkiv Sorok Olen Pavlovna; Cherkas District Court of the Cherkas district of Fetisov Tetjana Leonidivna Please support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, there have been no warnings from you. So I'm putting to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges. [[Registration number 6170]] Please vote. [[13:13:31]] For 346 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Let's all pick judges, then welcome everyone together. Let's not relax. Second draft of Decree 6256.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u161	The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Kuszczenko Tetjan Rudolphovna; Dnipropetrov's Board of Appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u162	Puppy. Puppy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u163	Puppy. The Dnipropetrov Administrative Court of Appeal, Lukman Olga Mikolayevna; Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal Boyko Andrija Volodymirovich; Kiev’s Court of Appeal Eugrafov Elisabeth Pavlovna, Tishchenko Oksana Volodymyrovna; Simferopol District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Mikhail Alexanderovich; Yaltin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Association of Oleg Ivanovich; Ordjonikidev City Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Tomasz Vadim Ivanovich; The Provincial District Court of the Horn of Creature of the Dnipropetrov region of Michei's Victoria Urievna; The Lord's District Court of the Donetsk district of Dozenko Svetlana Ivanovna; The Kirovograd City Court of the Donetsk district of Nazarenko Hanna Volodymyrna; Ordjonikidev District Court of Mariupol Donetsk Region Melnik Irina Hennadiawn; Ordjonikidev District Court of Zaporozhye Vorobyov Irina Anatoliyevna; Johno-Frankiv City Court of Ivano-Frankiv District; Vasilkov District Court of Kiev, Korniyenka Sergey Valeriyovich; Ochakov City Court of the Mikolai district of Kuzmenka
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u164	The District Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u165	Ochakov’s Regional Court of Mikolayev, Kuzmenka Viacheslav Volodymirovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vladimir Mikhailovich, sorry for God's sake, there's a technical error. The judge of the Yaltin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Oleg Ivanovich, is removed from the list without a committee decision. The Chief of Staff has now reported. The Provincial District Court of the Horn of Creature of the Dnipropetrov region of Michei's Victoria Urievna; The Lord’s District Court of the Donetsk district of Docenko Svetlana Ivanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u166	No, we're something. Just a minute. We have stopped with you: the Okaków Regional Court of Mikolaiiv district of Kuzmenko Vjacheslav Volodymyrovic. And then there's: Terebovlian and all that. You're the one who made the other decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u167	Ochakov Regional Court of Mikolayev, Kuzmenka Viacheslav Volodymirovic; The Provincial District Court of the Horn of Creature of the Dnipropetrov region of Michei's Victoria Urievna; The Lord's District Court of the Donetsk district of Dozenko Svetlana Ivanovna; The Kirov City Court of the Donetsk district of Nazarenko Hanna Volodymyrna; Ordjonikidev District Court of Mariupol Donetsk Region Melnik Irina Hennadiawn; Terebovljana District Court of the region of Ternopil, Malarczuk Volodymyr Vasilovich; The Komsomol District Court of Herson Dzigovski Jury Vasilovich; Isaslav District Court of the Hmelni district of Pient Inna Vasilovna; Sadgir District Court of Czernovci Proscurnjak Igor Georgievovich; the Commercial Court of the Kyiv District of the Horn of Sergio Juriovich; and the court-martial of the Kharkiv district of Conon, Olga Valeriyivna and Prokhor's Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please support Project 6256.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u168	Sergei Vasilovich. Sergei Vasilovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] 6256, yes. Dear colleagues, in view of what has come up, have spoken names that are not in the draft decree, and I ask you to return to Decree 6256 and announce it again. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u169	Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Kucenko Tetjan Rudolphovna; The Dnipropetrov Administrative Court of Appeal, Lukman Olga Mikolayevna; Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal Boyko Andrija Volodymirovich; Kyiv's Court of Appeal, Efragraf's Elisabeth Pavlovna, Tishchenko Oxan Volodymyrna; Simferopol District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Mikhail Alexanderovich; Ordjonikidev City Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Tomasz Vadim Ivanovich; The Provincial District Court of the Horn of Creature of the Dnipropetrov region of Michei's Victoria Urievna; The Lord's District Court of the Donetsk district of Dozenko Svetlana Ivanovna; Kirovograd City Court of the Donetsk Region
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u170	Kirowski. Kirowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u171	The Kirov City Court of the Donetsk district of Nazarenko Hanna Volodymyrna; Ordjonikidev District Court of Mariupol Donetsk Region Melnik Irina Hennadiawn; Ordjonikidev District Court of Zaporozhye Vorobyov Irina Anatoliyevna; Johno-Frankiv City Court of Ivano-Frankiv District; Vasilkov District Court of Kiev, Korniyenka Sergey Valeriyovich; Ochakov City Court of the Mikolai district of Kuzmenka Viacheslav Volodymirovic; Terebovljana District Court of the region of Ternopil, Malarczuk Volodymyr Vasilovich; The Komsomol District Court of Herson Dzigovski Jury Vasilovich; Isaslav District Court of the Hmelni district of Pient Inna Vasilovna; Sadgir District Court of Czernovci Proscurnjak Igor Georgievovich; the Commercial Court of the Kyiv District of the Horn of Sergio Juriovich; Cononov Olga Valerievnui and Prokhor's Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please support this Bill 6256.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u172	Dear National Deputies, the list, these very people who have been read, there are. In this regard, the draft decision, Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u173	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, unfortunately, is no longer the first time that the reporter makes conscious or unconscious mistakes. And in the past, there have been such cases where there were candidates for office, a high-ranking judge, who had not been considered before. Today, there is doubt that this is a repetition of the machination, unfortunately. So either you, Mr. Head, read the real list, or simply the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block will not vote in favour of such attempts to do the machining.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! The names that have been read exactly match the draft regulation's registration number 6256. I'm sure you believe me to say that I'm careful with every last name and name of the court. The last list that was read just corresponds fully to the decision that was made by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u175	It's a draft decision. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u176	We have to vote now, one minute. There are no warnings about names that have been spoken? None. I'm putting to the vote a draft decision on the election of judges, please vote. [[13:24:32]] For 266 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Next draft of Decree 6171. Please take him, distinguished national MPs! Sergei Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u177	The committee recommends the selection of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges. The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Varenko Olen Pavlovna the Court of Appeal of the Zakarpat district of Jug Sergey Dineshovich; the Court of Appeal of the Cherka district of Mishchenka Sergija Valentinović, Munica Boris Pavlovich. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u178	No last names warnings? I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 6171]] Please vote. [[13:25:40]] For 282 Decision taken. Next draft of Decree 6257.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u179	The Committee recommends that judges previously elected as judges of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine be selected on an open-ended basis by Sergio Ernestovich. The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv district of Sashtenko Igor Sergiyovitch and Sokolenek Viktor Grigorovovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u180	About Sokolenka? All right, let's put a mark on it. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u181	Kiev’s Court of Appeal, Ivanenko, Julius Hennadiovna and Black Ludmila Vasilovna. Please support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, since there was a remark about Sokolenek Viktor Grigorovich, we are removing that name. Did I name it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u184	We're removing the last name. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges and removing the name Sokolenka Viktor Grigorovich. [[Registration number 6257]] Please vote. [[13:27:02]] For 310 Decision taken. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u185	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished fellow members of the National MPs, I raised my hand with warnings about the election of Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv district of Sokolenka. In connection with the fact that the committee had received documents, which they had received almost a month ago, documents of the loss of 12 civilian cases in this court, of the loss of registers, of accounting magazines, were found, something similar to what happened yesterday in Kiev when privatisation cases occurred. The explanation, I made a statement on March 15th after the representatives of the district administration's judicial administration, the State Judicial Administration, formally addressed the committee, I turned to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u186	Let the people finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u187	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, such a check had not yet been carried out because the Council of Judges of the Kharkiv Region was sitting only once a month, and by contacting them, they said that they could consider the matter not earlier than April 22, or April 24, respectively. In this way, it is not surprising that the police have not found the lost cases and the lost journals. Since the findings that were sent to us by the chairman of the committee on behalf of the head of the committee were to be reviewed by the Governing Body of the Kharkiv District Judges and assessed accordingly, I request that this be postponed until this examination is carried out. In addition, we asked the prosecution about the fact that both materials are missing and there is no criminal element.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u188	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u189	We considered this issue yesterday at a meeting of the Committee. And they decided by a majority vote to recommend that the Supreme Council elect this judge to serve as a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u190	So Sokolenko Viktor Grigorovitch is?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u191	He is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u192	Please, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u193	Dear National Deputies! The Court of First Instance operates in two buildings, two kilometers between buildings. There's no protection, there's only two courts' houses -- there's only two rooms under the alarm -- and that's to keep the citizens out of the case, and in one room and another, the case is under consideration. Our coworkers are forced to move a large number of things from one house to another every day. And when I was on my way out, several court officials lost when they moved these cases, 10 lawsuits, then lost two cases of divorce cases -- already under consideration, two logs of registration -- about the transfer of cases to the judges of these cases, they have to hand over two more applications. When I became involved, I knew that I had taken steps to restore all these things. Within a few days, all these things were restored. The rights of citizens are not violated. I personally sought the help of the police. There are no negative consequences for people, and the court continues to work and works normally. And in this case, I'd like to ask you to support my candidacy. I've been a judge for 30 years, I've worked for over 10 years at the Court of Appeal in the Mikolai district.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u194	Yuri Anatolyevich, can you take your warnings off the table? Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u195	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I telephoned with the Council of Judges, told me what had happened and how it had happened before, without agreeing with the Council of Judges in the Kharkiv area of assignment. And we have one principle always existed, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that without verification materials and without evaluation, we hear an explanation from the interested party today. Instead, there are other absolute documents, even the numbers don't match in this case, and this is about the issues in the messages that we've been sent officially, and I'm stressing that it's official. And that's why I suggested, let them do the testing and give us the conclusions, we do it completely to the judges. In this case, it is an unprecedented case of loss of business, and it is written by the administration, which is negligence and so forth, because both violations are undeclared and a number of duties are incumbent upon the head of the court. So I don't take off my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u196	Please, Sergey Vasilovich, the final formulation of the committee, the proposal and we will continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u197	The Committee's decision, I repeat, was the same. To recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to choose an untimely judge who stands here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u198	Adam Martinyuk, please, and Kamchatny later on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u199	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, let us listen carefully to accusations and explanations. If I understand correctly, and I think it's right, losing documents, or the case, more specifically, has absolutely no bearing on the candidate that we're looking at. If the candidate were to move, if the applicant had moved from one place to another and had lost them, then the situation would have been different. So one of the judges did this, and we want to translate it into a specific person. So I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to support the committee's proposal, and to vote in favour of the election on an open-ended basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u200	Valerius Kamchatny, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, I represent the Kharkiv region. And now I want to lead to a well-known hall, perhaps the main thing that should be decisive and decision-making is the opinion of the electorate. So the voters I was talking to and asked about the work of our distinguished Victor Grigorovich Sokolenka support this candidacy and are pleased with its work as judges. And what happened really needs to be worked out in the service order, and to each other, they say, not mixed up. I personally urge my colleagues in faction to support this candidature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, taking into account the position of the committee and the exchange of views, I will put to the vote a motion for a committee to elect a judge on an untimely basis, Judge of the Court of Appeal of Kharkiv, Sokolenko Viktor Grigorovich. Yes, please vote. [[13:35:08]] For 343 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Announcing a draft decision on the election of the judge. [[Registration number 6258]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u203	The committee decided not to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the election of Zhukova Angelika Igorovna as the judge of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on an uninterrupted basis, in connection with numerous reports of violations of Ukrainian law. The violations were varied. Thus, the judge, in spite of the rules of territorial jurisdiction, banned the holding of a local referendum, decided on the issue of handing over land to private individuals, and so on. Dear colleagues, we have considered Zhukovy several times at the committee meeting. On 11 November 2009, the Committee decided to defer pending verification of the facts set out and submitted to the Committee. On 3 March 2010, the Committee returned to its consideration of the candidature of Jukowa. He decided to postpone it again. At all these meetings, Zhukov herself attended and provided explanations. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee, we returned for the third time to consider this candidature. At the meeting, Zhukov was informed, but did not appear. The Committee therefore decided to consider the matter without a judge directly and decided not to recommend to the Supreme Council the election of Zhukova Angelika Igorovna, because she violated the legislation in force in the gravest way. Think about what I'm gonna say. Look. The judge of the Economic Court deals with matters related to the holding of the referendum and prohibits the holding of a referendum. This is not an economic justice jurisdiction. But such judges are, and we have made that decision. Please support the decision of our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u204	Is there a judge?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u205	She's not here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u206	Who are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u207	Head of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u208	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u209	We would like to welcome you to this office. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! As for Bugs in the introduction of the High Council of Justice, there are three proposals for release. So it hasn't really been considered yet, but I did get to know these materials. I think the prospect is that there's going to be a liberation. That's why we're now supporting your position on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u211	Other thoughts are, dear colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u212	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u213	At the same time, in accordance with the Rules, I will put to the vote a draft decision on the election of the judge, and the Supreme Council will have to decide. [[Registration number 6258]] Do you understand the offer? That's why I'm putting to the vote a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of a judge. [[Registration number 6258]] On the election of the Igorina Beetle Angelica as Judge of the Court of Commerce of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:38:45]] For-21 The decision is not taken. So Zhukov's Angelina Igorovna was not elected as the judge of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Next order 6259.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u214	The committee recommends that the judges be dismissed: Kamyanec-Podil Regional Court of Hmeljna Region of Steczek Vasil Vasilovic - in connection with the acquisition of legal force by a verdict of indictment; The Nahimov district court of Sevastopol Kovalczuk Mikolayayovic, in connection with the acquisition of legal force by a verdict. Please support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, warnings, suggestions, are there others? None. I'm introducing a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges. [[Registration number 6259]] Please vote. [[13:39:58]] For 311 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome, on your behalf, the judges whom we have just elected to high office in no time, and to wish them the faithful service of the law, and thus the people, people and Ukraine, as well as strong health to carry out this responsible work. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the question of the appointment of out-of-court local elections. And I ask you to be patient, because we are going to have to vote a lot. [[B in m in s a l in]] We can't use the package. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u216	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Dear voters! The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government at its meetings on July 6, 8, 2, 23, October 7, 2009 and February 17, 2010, reviewed the concerns of local councils regarding the selection of rural, rural, and urban heads in total in 128 local governments. As a result of these issues, the committee concluded that it would recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoint out of turn elections, including 109 village heads, 11 village heads and 8 city heads. The reasons for the permanent cessation of the authority of rural, rural, and urban heads are as follows. According to the Council's decision of 80, 9, due to the death of 18, according to the court's verdict, 19, one case for the court's decision to declare the head's orders illegal and the committee's conclusions, one case — the court's decision — is declared to be undisclosed. The relevant draft regulations were registered with the Supreme Council during the 4, 5 and 6 sessions. However, in view of the fact that the committee, according to its decisions, recommended that the projects appoint individual rural, rural, city heads for different dates. But these questions were not addressed in time for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We consider it appropriate to recommend to the Ukrainian Parliament, taking into account the requirements of current legislation, to appoint all out-of-order local elections that will be considered today, on Sunday, June 20, 2010, by adopting draft regulations with appropriate amendments. Last but not least, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, is the draft of Decree 5110-27 on election, the election of the head of the Brovar City Council for the term. As was known literally today, Antonenko’s former head, who was released by a decision of the council, appealed to the district administrative court. Although there was a decision by the court of first instance. And that's why I would consider it appropriate today to postpone this same ruling to the court in this case, so that then there will be no what we will do, and the Supreme Council will judge this person if she wins the appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u217	Please remind me again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u218	5110-27.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u219	6110?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u220	5110-27.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, then we delete the draft decree 5110-27, and everyone else will vote. 5110-27, just requests, honourable colleagues, that we make the right decisions, because we need to vote on one date, because we owe it to the respective communities. I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the successive elections of the goddanian village head. [[Registration number 4775]] [[Bogdanov village council of the Zhaman district of Kirovograd]] Please vote. [[13:44:43]] For 112 Dear colleagues, I am addressing you, this is an obligation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this is a requirement of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Why don't we make a decision? Well, let's not waste time and not vote for these draft regulations. This is our obligation. I'm voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4775]] It's about people who haven't worked in a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, after two years, people don't work, after two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u223	What will we explain to these people who live in rural areas? [[13:45:48.]] For-138 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the draft Order on the appointment of the successive elections of the village head of Ježelov. [[Žeželova Rural Council of the Kozyatin district of the Winnitsk region]] [[Registration number 4775-1]] Please vote. [[13:46:19]] For-136 [[B in m in s a l in]] So let's work it out. What are we going to torture each other for? Well, if we don't look at these draft regulations. What's the reason? Let's get out of factions, tell us what the reason is. That's right: I don't want to, I don't want to. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to make appropriate decisions. How can we not understand the obvious truth? Let's make an election. I mean, then we're going to appoint the ones we need to run. Well, can you explain the reason? That's ridiculous. I don't read notes and lessons to anyone. You're an adult. The Supreme Council is obliged to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, I have an offer now to listen to the factions in a minute, because I don't understand the logic of how we're moving. We've had more than 120 of those orders. We didn't support it. Our colleagues from the Party of Regions and Communists didn't support two decisions. In one case, the head of the village council asks us, because he is the head of the administration, to release him, and in the other case, the head of the village council is asking us because he has poor health. I don't understand why we're not going to meet these people who are asking us to organize an election. So I would ask that maybe some of the motives will be more serious, Vladimir Mikhailovich, so that our non-vote colleagues can make arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u225	Well, please. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u226	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! There are no heads - there are deputies, there are secretaries. There's someone to lead. Olez Long is a brilliant leader of the Kiev Council without Chernevski. When Montenegro's 3 months gone, Longie's even better at managing it. Therefore, given that elections are about to be held, spending only money, throwing people away — that is why we do not see fit where local authorities work properly, to involve them in another campaign on the eve of the day. And then three months from now, we'll make new choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u227	Please, the Communist faction. One of the factions. Now, let's take this path-- let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u228	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you not to pay much attention to the fact that any decision is not made. The Supreme Council shall vote as it shall vote. In fact, I support my colleague Chechchev, who has different questions and different motives. What the head of the village council wrote, that he doesn't want to be head or head of the country, that's his business, don't be. Under the law, we don't release him, he freed himself. His duties are performed by the secretary. Let's vote on every decision. I'm sure the absolute majority of the 120 decrees will find support. And there are different reasons why a political power does not support the decision to hold an out-of-court election. It's not the first time we've met like this. In this session room, we have not voted or voted once before, in most cases we have voted and supported the decisions on the election. Some suggestions did not add up. I don't see any tragedy in this. I think the Supreme Council post.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u229	Olga Bodnar. And then we're going to be able to figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u230	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, Fatherland Party, Timoshenko Street. Dear Chief, honourable colleagues, I see here the reluctance simply to vote on this issue, because perhaps someone has some mercantile interests -- to delay consideration of this issue. There's another reason I can't find it. The whole presence here in the hall declared his respect for local government authorities by voting today to hold parliamentary hearings. The reporter explained to you all that there is a person who has disappeared without news, there are people who have already been sentenced, there are people who have already died. Aren't you going to vote for them, too? We've been sitting with the committee for more than a year trying to get your attention, because the decisions we're talking about have been going on since last summer. And today we're talking about some support for local self-government. Dear colleagues, this is no way to refer to local self - government, May 30 has been canceled, and you do not want to assign elections where they have been needed for a year. Let us, however, draw our attention to those.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u231	Conspiracy. Allow the committee head to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u232	Emotions are gone, I'm just asking you to pay attention to the responsibilities that are laid upon us with the oath that we all read and accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u233	Mikola Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u234	The European Party of Ukraine, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I would like to draw attention to parliamentarians who are not taking part in the vote. You don't vote "yes", you don't vote "against," you don't vote "restraint", you just don't take part in the vote. It is your responsibility to make decisions. With respect to your right, I think you have the political right to appreciate the work of local governments. But they'd better do it for you, the community itself. So I don't understand the political motivation for blocking these issues today. Let us still make decisions. Vote "against", but this will be your position. And to say that they work well, we don't see how they work from here, from these offices. But there must be legitimate authority in the community, self-reliant legitimate authority. I propose, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, once again put to the vote, and let the national MPs be determined by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u235	Yuri Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u236	It's the Lithuanian Block, Litwin. Dear colleagues, after all, it is essential to determine the dates of the local council's out-of-order elections, because, after all, the local self-government committee he has determined, he has studied each person in detail. The Lithuanian bloc will support local elections, as this is essential for the territorial communities. And in rural areas it is impossible to translate the authority of the secretary or someone else when 2-3 men work in the village council at all. So we need to approach these questions constructively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u237	We are continuing our consideration of the matter. Please, Sergey Petrovich Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u238	Dear fellows, I would like to draw your attention to that comparison with Kiev of some village council where there are only 10-15 deputies, and where the head of the state of health wrote a statement and composed of authority, and the person who has been elected Secretary, but never wanted to, and doesn't know how it works with a rural head. And leaving her in this position right now is not smart enough. And rural communities are asking us to solve this question. I'm addressing you, let me vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, we can only go any further where we can go. And you know very well that most of them are sitting here in a session hall from the village. If there's no head, no one's working. And if the head doesn't work, then people are actually thrown away. But we make decisions at the Conciliation Council. Everyone agreed that we were voting. It's not just a political choice: which electoral system to choose. The issue is that the Supreme Council is obliged to appoint elections instead of those that have erupted. And we don't want to. There's a limit. Well, let's just count ourselves in the right direction. I realize that nothing is going to break through. Oh, right. I put to the vote the next draft decree on the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Krasin village head. [[Registration number 4775-2]] [[Krasin village council of the Krivoriz district of Dnipropetrov region]] [[13:54:43]] For 178. The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the draft decree for the appointment of the successive elections of the Roma village head. [[Romanian Rural Council of the Mid-Bud District of the Suma Region]] Registration number 4775-3. [[13:55:13]] For 336 Decision taken. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decision on the appointment of the vice-elections of the Velikopad Rural Head. [[Wielkopola Village Council of the Zakarpat region]] Registration number 4775-4. [[13:55:45.]] For 324 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order on the Assignment of Subsequent Elections of the Commercial Agricultural Head. [[Trade Council of the Region of Ivano-Frankiv region]] [[13:56:16]] For 338 Decision taken. The draft decree is submitted by 4775-6 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Nagorian Rural Head. [[Nagorian Village Council of the Ternopil region]] Damn right. [[13:56:45]] For 338 Decision taken. Draft Decision on the Assignment of Elections of the Obmachian Rural Head (Omaczów Rural Council of the Bahamas District of Chernigiv Region) [[4775-7]] 4775-7. [[13:57:15.]] For 327 Decision taken. We continue the morning session for 15 minutes. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order on Assignment of Elections of the Novotroitsky Village Head. [[Novotroitsk Village Council of the Donetsk Region]] [[13:57:49]] For 329 Decision taken. Draft Decision on the appointment of the election of the French village head. [[4775-9]] [[Frunzen Village Council of the Slavanoserby District of Lugansk Region]] [[13:58:16]] For 325 Decision taken. 4775-10 is the appointment of the successive election of the Petrov City Head (Petrov City Council of the Krasnolutsk City Council of the Lugansk Region). [[13:58:45.]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 4775-11 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Alexandrov City Head (Alexandrov City Council of the Artemov District Council of Lugansk Lugansk Region). 4775-11. [[13:59:16]] For 148 The decision is not taken. 4775-12 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Kurahiv City Head (Kurahiv City Council of the Marjin Region of the Donetsk Region). [[13:59:46]] For 319 Decision taken. 4775-13 is the appointment of the novice elections of the novice village head (Novickyv village council of the valley region of Ivano-Frankiv region). [[14:00:14]] For 310 Decision taken. 4775-14 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Projekt Rural Head (the Council of the Village of Ratniv district of Volin Region). [[14:00:40]] For 318 Decision taken. 4775-15 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Olazarov Rural Head (Olysarian Rural Council of the Ivankow Region of Kyiv Region). [[2:01:07]] For 324 Decision taken. 5110 — the appointment of the successive election of the Emilian Rural Head (Emilian Village Council of the Golovani District of Kirovograd). [[14:01:33]] For-141 The decision is not taken. 5110-1 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Komarov Rural Head, the Komarov Rural Council of the Makarov District of Kyiv Region. [[2:02:03]] For 322 Decision taken. 5110-2. About the appointment of the Strymbowski Rural Head election. [[Strambv village council of the region of Ivano-Frankiv region]] [[2:02:31]] For 327 Decision taken. 5110-3 — on the appointment of the subsequent elections of the Hukalovian Rural Head (Gukalova Rural Council of the Congregational Region of Ternopil). [[2:02:55]] For 325 Decision taken. 5110-4 is the appointment of the Extraordinary Elections of the Ivakhnovite Rural Head (Ivakhnovite Village Council of the Chemerovite District of Hmeljna Region). [[14:03:23]] For 337 Decision taken. 5110-5 is the appointment of the successive election of the Bedrikovetske Rural Head (Bedrikovetsek Village Council of the Hmeljna District of the Hmeljna Region). [[14:03:49]] For -329 Decision taken. 5110-6 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Kadom Rural Head (Kadamska Rural Council of the Kagarlitsky District of Kyiv Region). [[14:04:13]] For 324. Decision taken. 5110-7 – on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Sand Head (Piscan Rural Council of the Krasnograd Region of Kharkiv Region). [[14:04:38]] For 325 Decision taken. 5110-8 - on the appointment of the successive elections of Borovenkov village head (Borovenkov village council of Lebedinsk district of Sumsk district). [[14:05:03]] For 330. Decision taken. 5110-9 – on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Orichov Rural Head (Orichov Rural Council of the Lutugin region of Lugansk Region). [[14:05:27]] For 325 Decision taken. 5110-10 On the appointment of consecutive elections of the Markovetsk Rural Head (Markovetsk Rural Council of the Tisminic District of Ivano-Frankiv Region). [[14:05:51]] For 321 Decision taken. 5110-11 – on the appointment of the next election of the Maslovska Rural Head (Maslovska Rural Council of the Špoljan Region of the Cherkas region). [[14:06:16]] For 318 Decision taken. 5110-12 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Sakhni village head (Sahni village council of the Konotopa district of Suma region). [[14:06:40]] For 319 Decision taken. 5110-13 – on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Dubovetsek Rural Head (Dubovetsk Rural Council of the Galician District Council of the Ivano-Frankiv Region). [[2:07:06]] For 322 Decision taken. About the appointment of the next election of the Gorbov village head. [[Gorbov village council of the Kulikov district of Chernigiv region]] Registration number 5110-14. [[14:07:28]] For 315 Decision taken. 5110-15 – on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Marian Rural Head (Marian Village Council of the Apostolic Region of Dnipropetrov). [[14:07:54]] For-161 The decision is not taken. 5110-16 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Dmitry Rural Head (Dmitry Rural Council of the Priyasov Region of Zaporez Region). [[14:08:26]] For-141 The decision is not taken. 5110. Well, that's understandable. Let me show you the factions. Dear colleagues, let's go. All right, we'll be on the factions. 5110-17 is the appointment of the Kukshin Rural Head Elections (Cukshin Rural Council of the Nizhin district of Chernigiv region). [[14:09:05]] For 314 Decision taken. 5110-18 is the appointment of the alternate election of the Tereshovite Rural Head (Tereswets village council of the Hmelnicke District). [[2:09:31]] For 307 Decision taken. 5110-19 is the appointment of the special election of the Solidarnen village head (Solidarnenes Rural Council of the Biloukurakin region of Lugansk Region). [[14:09:56]] For 304 Decision taken. 5110-20 — on the appointment of the next election of the Czerschen Rural Head (Czeresen Rural Council of the Visnicke District of the Cherniewets region). [[14:10:22]] For 309 Decision taken. 5110-21 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Samotoi Rural Head (Samotoi Rural Council of the Krasnopol Region of Suma Region). [[14:10:47]] For 304 Decision taken. 5110-22 – on the appointment of the extraordinary elections of the Chernitinian Rural Head (Chernitinian Rural Council of the Kalinov District of Winnitsk Region). [[14:11:13]] For 306 Decision taken. 5110-23 – on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Novokrasniv Rural Head (Novoksnov Rural Council of the Donetsk Region). [[14:11:39]] For 304 Decision taken. 5110-24 is the appointment of the electorate of the Mikolai Village Head (Mikolai Village Council of the Dnipropetrov region of Petrikowa). [[14:12:05]] For-142 The decision is not taken. Well, by factions? You can see that factions two do not vote. What do you see? Then I'll give you, your honors, general information, a schedule of every decree, as voted. Then you'll give it to the people. Come on, let's vote, let's make a decision, Ivan Alexanderovich. 5110-25 - on the appointment of the new-Osernian village head election, the Novoozernov village of the Council of the Eupatoria City Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[14:12:57]] For-136 The decision is not taken. 5110-26 - on the appointment of the Bilogir village head election (Bilogir village council of the Bilogir district of Hmelni district). [[14:13:23]] For 295 Decision taken. 5110-28 – on the appointment of the successive elections of the Zimogirian City Head (city of Zimogiri of the Slavanoserb Region of Lugansk Region). [[14:13:52]] For 296 Decision taken. 5110-29 – on the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Krasnoville Rural Head (Krasnoville Council of the Manevitch Region of Volin Region). [[14:14:17]] For 304 Decision taken. 5110-30 is the appointment of the extraordinary elections of the Czerni Jewish Head (Chernyian Rural Council of the Tisenian District of Ivano-Frankiv Region). [[14:14:42]] For 301 Decision taken. 5110-31 is the appointment of the next election of Krilovska Rural Head (Krylovska Rural Council of the Andrush district of Žitomir Region). [[14:15:06]] For 309 Decision taken. Last, dear colleagues, last. 5110-32 – on the appointment of consecutive elections of Roadsznian Rural Head. [[Road Council of Guliapil district of Zaporozhye region]] [[14:15:35]] For 133 The decision is not taken. On this good note, distinguished national MPs. I can't do this anymore. 16 minutes, it doesn't count anymore. Well, please, Mikola Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u240	The European Party of Ukraine, Mikola Catherinechuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. I would like to divulge the secret of why this is the case with the election out of turn. In fact, it is about trying to control certain areas by using local self - government authorities without holding elections. Where the Party of Regions has the majority, their secretary works, they don't need any elections; where they don't; where they don't, you've seen, they've supported the vote. It's a road to nowhere, it's a disgrace and an influence on the authorities of local self-government. I don't think that's a democratic approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u241	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u242	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Dear national MPs, our constituents! You've just seen, part of it said to you by Mikola Catherinechuk as a representative of the European Party, but it's actually building a vertical of local self-government. And I am addressing Viktor Yanukovic as the President of the country as the guarantor of the rights and duties of citizens, so that he can offer the recently led party and faction to a positive vote, despite this political selection that the Party of Regions is currently trying to make. Because this vertical is a bandit vertical. It's no different than a bandit's vertical. Banditism must be brought to an end. There must be dictatorship only in the Constitution and exclusively in the laws of Ukraine. And if the President doesn't respond to the fact that there are no city heads after two years, then if you'll excuse me, then why is the president? I, Vladimir Mikhailovich, address you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u243	The morning meeting of the Supreme. Please, Paul Sulkowski. Are we continuing our work?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u244	Yes, yes, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you, thank you. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I took the floor, because when they listened to one, the other, our leading colleagues, and the smart people, all the same, started calling the bandits and so on. Who knows him, who's more, who's less, where's less, where's the bandit, and who's talking. How do you tell him that a bandit is not a bandit? I, for example, am not a bandit, Mr. Yuri. And I would like to say, Your Honor, that's all you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, have asked the question, you have rightly said that it's our duty to do it and vote, but it's practically not in Ukraine's favor. Why? Because you yourself know that you have already said that in the autumn there will be elections, there will be new elections. And we're going to recapture those same heads again. How, then, does this benefit us today? It's practically time-consuming, people are going to be fed up by politicians just once, instead of working for the economy and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-04-01-m0.u245	Let us conclude, fellow believers, a fruitful discussion. All I'm reminding you is that there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that persons elected in consecutive elections, and accordingly elected by the council, act in accordance with the Constitution's term of 5 years. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 16 o'clock we'll continue our plenary work.
