ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:28]] Cards were registered in the 419 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please welcome the national deputies of Ukraine, Mr. Logwinenka, Mr. Alexia Stepanovich and Ms. Pavelek Sergio Grigorovitch, with their birthday and wish them all the best. [[Applause]] I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on May 20th. Eight issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result, three laws and five decrees have been passed. One bill has been sent back to the committee for further processing and is then submitted for re-reading. One bill and three draft decrees have been rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with articles 25 and 229 of the Law “On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, are held on Friday from 10 to 11 p.m. “An hour of questions to the Government”. Representatives of non-member MPs made a proposal: during this “hour of questions to the Government” to have the opportunity to communicate with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in order to answer questions about inter-State agreements signed between Ukraine and the Russian Federation during an official visit to Ukraine from 17 to 18 May 2010 by the President of the Russian Federation, Dmitry Anatoliyovitch Medvedev. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers, let me remind you that the rules for the holding of the “hour of questions to the Government” are: 30 minutes is referred to questions to members of the Cabinet of Ministers from non-members of the coalition, primarily written questions that have been referred in advance to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; then it is suggested that the remainder of the time should be taken to answer the oral questions from the faction of the “Blood of Yulia Timoshenko”, since the written question was posed by the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-defence”; and then 30 minutes of questions from the national deputies directly to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is there no objection? No one opposes the Law of the Law. Thank you. I invite the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Gristenko Kostunica Ivanovich to communicate with the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u2	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! Got a few questions from the deputy faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense." I'll try to answer each of these questions. First, will the signed agreements and agreements planned for the signing of the demarcation of the borders between Ukraine and the Russian Federation lead to Ukraine's loss of control over the Cherkin Strait and the Ukrainian part of the Azov Sea? I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the agreement made in Kiev to demarcate the Ukrainian-Russian state border provides legitimate grounds for initiating the process of demarcating the land area of the state border with the Russian Federation. The creation of a joint Ukrainian-Russian demarcation commission. This is called upon to ensure the organization and conduct of work with the marking of the state border in the area. The position of the Joint Ukrainian-Russian Demarcation Commission under the agreement of the parties will be finalized and agreed upon in its subsequent meetings and approved in its established order. The practical completion of the demarcation and conclusion of the subsequent agreement on the regime of the Ukrainian-Russian state border will ensure sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity*** of the state border of Ukraine and will contribute to the effective fight against illegal immigration, smuggling, drug trafficking and other illegal activities. The conclusion of this agreement is in no way related to the negotiation process of delimitation, namely, the delimitation of the Azov and Black Seas and the Kerchen Strait with the Russian Federation. This process has been going on since 1996. The agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the cooperation and use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait of December 24, 2003, established that the Asian Sea and the Kerchny Strait were historically the internal waters of both nations and created a legal basis for the delimitation of these waters. Thanks to this year’s agreements between the presidents of Ukraine and the Russian Federation, a complex negotiation process between the Azov and Black Seas and the Kerchny Strait has gained momentum. In June of this year, it is planned to hold another 33 rounds of delegation negotiations on the delimitation of the areas mentioned. The Ukrainian side is seeking recognition by Russia of the former inter-Republican administrative border in the Kerchen Strait as an existing Ukrainian-Russian state border. Our position has remained unchanged for many years. Question two. Will the signed agreements on cooperation in the humanitarian sphere between Ukraine and the Russian Federation lead to an increase in Russia's expansion in the Ukrainian media and cultural space in the light of regular Russian statements by tobacco and Seminomist officials? The agreement foresees the cooperation of a wide range of humanitarian issues on a parity basis. Question three. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Russia, Lavrov, publicly stated that an agreement had been reached to develop a new bilateral agreement with Ukraine on cooperation in the gas field, as well as on the construction of highway pipelines. What is the meaning of the new covenant? What are the main pipelines? If there is a U.S. GTS, why is it not directly mentioned by the government of Ukraine? In the context of the contacts between the relevant government structures of Ukraine and the Russian Federation, the issue of the maximum effective use of the Ukrainian TTS, which no one intends to transfer to the interests of the two States, no specific agreement exists today. The fourth questions. Today, Ukraine's legislation in any form prohibits the alienation of Ukraine's GTS objects, is it not in the light of Lavrov's statement that the bill is a member of the ruling coalition of Kiselov, the essence of which is to lift the ban on the privatization and reorganization of state-owned enterprises in the negotiable transport of some kind by pre-sale preparation of these enterprises. I think that in this case we need to look to the MP so that he can explain the contents of his proposal. Fifth question. Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov publicly stated that an agreement had been reached to develop a new bilateral agreement with Ukraine on nuclear cooperation. And it's about building nuclear power grids and building nuclear fuel capacity. Will new agreements lead to the actual transition of Ukraine’s nuclear industry into Russia’s property? You won't. Next questions. Are the questions raised in the humanitarian cooperation on the inclusion of Ukrainian television broadcasters in the Russian Broadcasting Package? That's exactly how it happens. The retranslation of national television channels in the territory of other states is regulated by the European Convention on Transborder Television and the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. Accordingly, Ukrainian channels have to be licensed; these licenses now have three radio stations: State Television, the Global Service of Ukrainian Television and Radio Broadcasting, the Ukrainian Independent Television “Inter” and the “Study 1+1” television company. [[UTR]] None of these channels are included in the Russian Federation’s pay packets of satellite television. To meet today's information needs of Ukrainians living in the Russian Federation, the Russian side has decided to place Ukrainian television channels free of charge on a satellite platform called NTV Plus, which is the most popular platform in the Russian Federation as an ambassador I can assure the former ambassador to the Russian Federation. The following question concerns: “We know that the ships of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation are outdated and their technical condition is disturbing. Whether the negotiations on environmental issues in the Black Sea Basin have been discussed as a result of the stay in the Black Sea Navy of Russia and whether Sevastopol will receive additional funds to solve its environmental problems as a result of the continued establishment of the Russian CF.” The issue of environmental security at Black Sea Fleet sites in Ukraine is regulated by the Bilateral Agreement on the Status and Conditions of the Black Sea Fleet and the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Russia on Environmental Security. These issues are under consideration by the Black Sea Fleet Sub-Commission, and during the eighth meeting of the Commission on 28 April 2010, an inventory of the work was carried out, including the obtaining of appropriate permits and the level of compliance with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation. There is enough serious progress in carrying out our obligations by the Black Sea Fleet, the situation is not ideal, but we are constantly working with the Russian side as they say in the Armed Forces, the report is over, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, there are 21 minutes left for opposition factions to be able to ask questions directly from the Foreign Minister. Members of the factions who are not members of the coalition are asked to sign up for their questions to the Foreign Minister. Dear colleagues, only factions who do not join the coalition. Victor Taran, BUT faction. Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Minister! The President of Russia, Medvedev, was quoted as suggesting that Russia could represent the interests of Ukraine at the “Great Seven” and “Twenty” sessions. That is, Russia has the right to speak for Ukraine in its relations with other nations. And I want to remind you of the historical facts that the Royal Russia, after the signing of the Preyyaslav Agreement, made it impossible for Hmelnicky to have relations with other countries, and when the Soviet Union was formed, Moscow began to speak for Ukraine. So President Medvedev would like to continue this imperial tradition and take back to Ukraine, as an independent state, the right to vote in his relations with other states. Question: What is the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this, to put it mildly incorrect or essentially offensive to Ukraine? Did Russia receive an answer to its imperial ambitions? And have you taken the position of such authority as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine, and what was the President's reaction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u5	Well, I would like to remind you that this issue has also been discussed in the previous government. And it was also from the Ukrainian side that requests were made to assist Ukraine in addressing the issues that interest us in the meetings of those groups where we are not represented yet. As you can see, entering the Great Twenties depends on the state of the economy of Ukraine. It does not depend on political ambitions, desires, and the ability to do diplomatic work or.. it depends on objective factors. And Medvedev's proposal goes right in the direction of building a partnership between our two countries. The bear is not going to speak on behalf of Ukraine; he can only sound what we ask him to sound, coming out of what is our priority. Today is the priority of Ukrainian foreign policy, and I think domestic policy is to ensure the sustainable development of the country. To do this, we need access to the credit resources, especially the opportunities offered by our cooperation with the world’s leading nations, which are part of group 20 and group 8. The decisions taken at this level depend on how we can perform tasks that I think there are no contradictions in this room. This is to ensure the stability of the financial and economic situation in the country by moving to sustainable development on the basis of innovative technologies. So the interaction with the Russian Federation in the context of presenting the topics and questions that we're interested in at 20 and the big 8 answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u6	Olga Gerasimük, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense. Sadly, if you did not notice, you would be able to do so. Mikhailo Kossov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u7	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Dear Minister Constantine Ivanovich! I agree with you absolutely that the position of Ukraine, that the Black Sea and the Azov Seas and the Kerchen Strait should be in those parameters that were among the republics in the former union. You rightly reminded us that until recently you were the ambassador of Ukraine to the Russian Federation. That's such a delicate question. What arguments Russia had put forward earlier are about to know, well, by stretching out these boundaries. What Russia is also proposing at this meeting is that it does not finally resolve the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u8	The question of the separation of maritime space between Ukraine and the Russian Federation is discussed at these high-level meetings or at almost all. And the position of the Russian Federation is that there was no border of administration in the water spaces of the Soviet Union. We have our own arguments and evidence. We're giving you cartographic material. At the same time, they argue that no specific legal act has been found in connection with these maps of the administrative border in the archives. We can argue for a very long time about what we do. But the whole point of their concern is that there's a situation where the entire Kerch-Enikal Canal goes through within our territorial waters, if we make the distinction in the way we want it. We come from what can be found other tools that will guarantee Russia that Russia will be able to use this channel without hindrance under any circumstances, of course, by agreeing and interacting with Ukraine. It's a fundamental question to find such a tool. There are other approaches, they exist in world practice when there is no border as such. I can give you examples. Or maybe it's only 500 meters from the shore. Then there's the free zone. At the same time, I think this is an approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u9	Andrey Parubius, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u10	A boy named Andrew. I'd really like to continue this question. Because it is known that by defining the demarcation of the land border, the Ukrainian authorities have always linked the demarcation of the land border to the delimitation of the maritime border between Ukraine and Russia. That is what guaranteed us a comprehensive consideration of the matter. And that was our fairly consistent position in foreign policy, which was to conduct such a boundary between Ukraine and Russia of water, which corresponds to both national law and, in fact, common sense. Is it not really a matter of certain actions that Ukraine has singled out and individually demarcated only the land border when it comes to conducting a maritime border? Because it is known that Russia has always acted out of the fact that there is an inland sea and a shared use of water. We know not only about channels, but we know what kind of deposits are at the bottom. And if it isn't in this case, it's concessions and giving away national interests when we bring it up as parentheses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u11	Well, I have to answer what I know about it. And it'll be open. The situation is quite the opposite. Minister of Foreign Affairs Ogrezko at every meeting where I was present and he, as an ambassador, was pressing Russia to sign a demarcation agreement. We were always interested in not delaying the demarcation. No, it was just the position of the Russian side. The Russian side's sequential position, until we complete the perimeter, do not sign the demarcation agreement. So here's the exact opposite position, and it's been a long time. In 2003, we stood up for the earliest possible demarcation. And I think that's what ordinary people need, because we need to know where the sovereignty of one state ends, where the jurisdiction of Ukrainian or Russian courts ends. It's the question of the confidence of those who do trade, who cross the border, that's the question of bordering, that's what ordinary people need. The Russian side has always said in recent years that let's take care of everything, and then we'll go back to the demarcation. So I want to assure you that in this case the demarcation will be carried out in accordance with the Delimitation Agreement on the same lines. And it will ensure our own interests, as well as the interests of those millions who cross this border every year. I think we should be interested in making this agreement effective as soon as possible. By the way, it's going to be submitted for ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u12	Alexander Steshenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u13	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask that you pass on Eugene Dmitrovich to my colleague, Goodyak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u14	Eugene Good. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u15	Dear Constantine Ivanovich, please tell us on your visit to the President of the Russian Federation, Dmitry Medvedev, a joint statement was signed with President Yanukovic on the settlement of the Transnistrian conflict. Please state the main content of this statement and whether this statement will involve Ukraine in a conflict-prone geopolitical situation. You know what the German press, the Austrian press, the official statement by the Prime Minister of Moldova and all that. Please tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u16	I think we should be interested in, above all, that this conflict zone should cease to be that way. Since Transnistria and Moldova are on our borders, this conflict, which is latent but nevertheless real, poses a real potential danger to both our interests and stability in the regions. Then, the statement of readiness, the set-up of the major guarantor countries and mediators -- and I would like to emphasize that this is the specific role of Ukraine and the Russian Federation -- to resolve this issue gives a powerful signal to both the parties to the conflict and our main European and global partners, that we no longer consider wasting time as possible, that every effort will be made to find understanding between the parties on the basis of the principles that are fundamental to us -- is territorial integrity, that respect for rights and freedoms. And I think it's not an accident that we got a positive reaction on the whole diplomatic line. Of course, there are different thoughts. They're in this room, they're also in European countries, but they're mostly in nuances. All agree: An adjective arrangement requires a powerful new impulse. And I think Ukraine and Russia are capable of giving that momentum. This statement is just a step in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u17	Jaroslav Jojik, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u18	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Mr. Minister, President Medvedev, during his visit, declared a slowdown in economic relations between Russia and Ukraine in recent years. At the same time, from 2004 to 2009, despite complex political relations, it was in the economic sphere that we had the most positive dynamic. So over the years, trade has nearly doubled from $20 billion to $40 billion. In contrast, positive dynamics were maintained even after the start of the global financial crisis. Instead, during this period, restrictions and sanctions on Ukrainian producers were used several times by Russia to reduce access to the Russian market. What do you think the reason is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u19	Please finish briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u20	What do you think is the reason why at such a high level or does not have real statistical information or is distorted? And why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u21	Thank you, Your Honor, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u22	Well, you know, you can say estimates of some kind. Give grades based on your emotions. There are facts: the fall in 2009, by 2008, more than 40 percent, said Medvedev. He spoke of the need for synergy as part of the crisis, and we need to work together to get out of it. You know, last year's GDP drop was 15 percent, that's what we have. Don't you think it didn't affect the volume of our trade with our biggest partner? Growth was real, and it was fueled in many ways by the dynamics of the global economic processes that took place in the east by 2008. The crisis has shown that we have faced enormous barriers to trade in economic cooperation with Russia over the past five years: the unwillingness of the Russian Federation through political and emotional, if you want, reflection, because of the mistrust that has been imposed in these relations, to make decisions that suit our interests. In the aviation sector. Ukraine cannot survive alone in this world. That's clear. You can ask that to anyone who's doing aviation here in Ukraine. Using Ukrainian ports. Because a huge amount of cargo is now being diverted to other ports than our southern ones. These are people's real interests, these are the real interests of those who need help from today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u23	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u24	So I think there's a new page that's open today that helps to remove these barriers and to go out on mutually acceptable arrangements that will be of a nature in terms of providing interests not only to the state but also to those working in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u25	National MP Pavlovsky, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u26	Dear Constantine Ivanovich, does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs accept energy negotiations, in particular with regard to the merger of Naftogazu and Gazprom? How far did these negotiations go? What will Ukraine's fate be in this SP? And the same thing about fusion in nuclear energy – "Rosatom" and "Energotoma" in Ukrainian. And is it from the Russian side that information is coming that Russia wants to get control of Kharkiv's Turboat as part of these negotiations? Give me an answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u27	Of course, negotiations or, let’s put it this way, discussions on specific issues take place at different levels. They are carried out among the host subjects, acting among the experts who prepare the proposals. They are conducted at the level of prominent delegations. And they're on an interstate level. I can say that neither at the interstate level nor at the interdisciplinary official level of conversation or negotiations on the integration of gas or gas systems are going on. Journalists, of course, I'll go to the other one, let me tell you. So I'm going to Turboatom and to the atomic sphere. So today, President Obama, President Sarkozy of the World's Increased Nuclear Energy Initiative, as a response to global warming challenges, environmental problems, there is an opportunity for Ukraine, together with partners, or with a partner that we will set up a powerful centre that will be competitive in the world. It's not just about building two energy clouds, which we've already mentioned, but it's also about the possibility of competing in third-country markets. This and Turkey, this is India, this is China, until they learn to build it themselves. This is essentially the survival of this area. In order to create a balanced integrated system, appropriate negotiations are under way. But no one is going to give anything to anyone -- it's about creating a system that will allow our leading technological sectors to stand up for their competitive positions in the world, to open up new markets for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! Now, this proposal, now who hasn't been able to question this list, we cancel and now all deputies have the right to sign up for questions. So I'm announcing an entry to the Foreign Minister's questions from all over the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please record. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u29	Please pass the word to a colleague of Carpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u30	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u31	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”, a parliamentary group “For Ukraine”. The Honourable Constantine Ivanovich, an important component of the signed agreements, is the agreements on cultural and educational cooperation. Along with that day in the Russian Federation, an application was published to the Ukrainian organizations of Russia for pressure on Ukrainian educational organizations, and it was about cleaning up libraries and Ukrainian literature in Moscow, persecuting its coworkers and its creator, Yuri Kononek. This is about the Ukrainian Cultural and Educational Center at 124 School and the prosecution and cessation of the Ukrainian Federation of National and Cultural Autonomy in Russia and the unification of Ukrainians in Russia. And the attempt at political cleansing of Ukrainian organizations in Russia gives reason to believe that all these good words and all these good intentions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u32	Please finish your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u33	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken action to protect Ukrainians from the pressures of the Russian authorities and has raised this issue during Medvedev’s stay in Kiev, and has it been abandoned for the sake of so - called friendship with Moscow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u34	Well, first of all, according to the particulars you called. Embassies and I, as an ambassador, did this directly, because this is not a new topic, it came up just years ago. There are many ingredients, on the one hand the position of local authority, on the other hand all of us human beings, all of us personalities, and I have to say that a lot of purely legal errors have been made by the management of these organizations from the point of view of registration and re-registration. But nevertheless, we have consistently put this issue before the Russian authorities, both at the central level and at the Moscow level. So these two structures, the federations, they work. Although the matter was referred to the court, it was withdrawn. And today the question is, What is the best thing for the Ukrainian community itself, whether to have one or two structures, and who should lead them? Among the Ukrainians who live in Russia and are citizens of this neighboring country are many who, as a patriot and Russia, are real Ukrainians and who are ready to become active leaders of Ukrainian language and culture in Russia. This requires that they be given the opportunity to do so. We cannot interfere with the internal processes of the Ukrainian community in the Russian Federation. But I think that the time has come when natural change is taking place on those people who are authoritative in scientific, educational, and other circles, and who have demonstrated by their work for many years that they have been able to be a unifying factor in the work of these organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u35	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u36	Dear Constantine Ivanovich! For the first time in five years, the foreign policy course conducted by President Viktor Yanukovic has led to a dramatic strengthening of Ukraine's international image. It led to Ukraine becoming a recognized, negotiated world. Agreements. The capitals of European countries, America, have opened up to us and relations with Russia have been normalized. And most importantly, for the first time, the foreign policy course was converted into economic dividends for the country, I mean, 40 billion is the price of arrangements in Harkov. And I probably won't open America if I say that in principle the foreign policy course should be pragmatic. What is presented today by the Ministry, the President, should first and foremost bring economic dividends. And I want to ask you a question. Say, you will agree that it is the economic foreign policy course that brings economic dividends that strengthen the country's power that truly strengthens Ukraine's sovereignty.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u37	If you don't mind, let me just express my personal conviction, which I've been guided by for a long time. In order to become a real, powerful, powerful state in the centre of Europe, which lives by European values, first of all, we need to develop an economy and create conditions for people in Ukraine that meet these European standards. Or maybe it's without wide-ranging cooperation, especially in the economic sphere, but also in the scientific and technical sphere, and it's not possible without political understanding with the Russian Federation. My answer is quite obvious, coming from purely pragmatic, if there are no other reasonings. If the volume of trade in goods and services with the Russian Federation is commensurate with what we have with all the countries of the European Union, it is in principle important for us not only to preserve but also to increase these relationships, the volume of trade, the extent of our interaction in the science and technology sphere in order to achieve these standards. Thus, the development of friendly, strategically effective relations with Russia is a prerequisite for our European integration. This is a fully-aware pragmatic approach that is already producing results today, and I am sure it will be a prerequisite for us to be able to improve our lives and then speak more confidently in the international arena. I am convinced that we are both completely capable of practice, and the responses we receive from the European capitals from our Pacific partners show that they understand this policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u38	Well, please, Victor Terrence, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u39	And yet your answer to the question of what's good is when Russia, in its relations with other states, represents the interests of Ukraine, Mr. Minister, I don't think it's convincing. Why? Because please tell me why Russia did not ask Ukraine to represent its interests, such as in the World Trade Organization, whose member is Ukraine and Russia is not yet? But because Russia has dignity and does not want to pass on its voice to anyone. And why didn't Russia ask Ukraine to represent its interests, for example, in the Council of Europe, because Ukraine was the first member of the Council of Europe than Russia? And that's a very simple question. Is there anything you don't agree with Russia, with its politics, at all? Is everything Russia does, in your opinion, good, wonderful? And so the question is: Have you forgotten the minister of the very simple saying when Russia gives everything: “Fear the people of the nations, the gifts they bring”?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u40	If anyone were to give gifts, he might have to be afraid. That's what we are. But you don't have to look for a dark cat in a dark room if it's light and there's no cat. I think that, you know, the worst thing a person can do is reach out to her and she throws it away because she thinks it's true, so there's something dark in there. This is not a normal approach to solving problems of interstate communication. Making a relationship more difficult than just maintaining it, protecting one’s honour, dignity, and interests. After a fight, it is not easy to reestablish a relationship. But I would like to go back again to representing the country as one of the interests of others. It's not about presenting the whole set of questions. It is about finding an opportunity to prove our thoughts and our positions in a closed group that is not yet foreseen for Ukraine's membership. And I would also like to point out that just as it relates to the World Organization for Trade in Consultations with the Russian Federation, where the Russian side calls on us for help, they are being held on a regular basis. So it's a two-way movement. I think he's responding to our interests to the fullest extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u41	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u42	Minister, I'm here on the right. My question about the implementation of the Brussels Agreements, the Brussels Declaration on the Establishment of a Transparent Gas Market in Ukraine. Remember, on March 23rd last year, this declaration was signed between the EU and Ukraine. In line with this declaration, as I recall, for six months some reforms in this area have been envisaged. For its part, the EU has foreseen the allocation of 2.5 billion euros for these reforms. It's been over a year, we have a very different vector. And now the EU has presented to us its reform matrix in relation to the fact that we have nothing, I take it, not done. Here's my question. How do you appreciate the implementation of this declaration, these arrangements?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u43	Well, as you pointed out, the arrangements themselves were made last year. And it's been a long time since they were put together to change the government. So there's probably two parts that need to be analyzed here. The ability of the previous government to implement those declarations that were made on his behalf during the time specified in the treaty itself. And perhaps the answer is clearly in your question. And what is currently going on with the European Union in the gas field. Ukraine intends to join the Eurosus, a powerful structure that is responsible for many issues in this area. We have a very active, active dialogue with the Commissioner for Energy of the European Union as one of the sectoral directions of interaction with the EU. We're looking for a formula that would answer the question of where is the gas supplier's balance of interests, which is Russia, but it's really not just Russia, but maybe there's a fraction of Central Asian gas, Ukraine as the EU's transit countries and EU member states as consumers of gas. There's a few dimensions. There's a measure of our relationship with the European Union as a structure, it's our measure of bilateral relations with each of the states, the consumers of that gas that's being transported through our territory, and it's the measure of our dialogue with each of the companies that's providing gas consumption in Europe. This is a complex circle of questions that requires professional, hard work, clarity. That's how it's done right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u44	Taras Cranville, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u45	Dear Constantine Ivanovich, I would like to ask you about the following. Whether we continue to associate the eastern vector exclusively with Russia, or we will still be able to come up with a certain principle. I don't know. I mean the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, SCO. Clearly, from the question of full membership in this organization for Ukraine, it's, well, so far, a very controversial topic. But this organization provides for observer status and partner country status. The partnership at SCO is today being discussed by Belarus. It seems to me that for Ukraine the very passage through these two stages could be very interesting and in a safe form, in the form of finding new serious partners, in principle in finding a new quality that might be interesting to the European Union. After all, the road to the European Union leads through China. There's something about that, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. I fully agree with you that we need to establish this relationship with the S.H.E.L.D. But I would also like to point out that we've come up with a way to find the answer to how much better the formula will be for us, just recently. Why? China plays a key role in this organization. For five years, we haven't had an exchange of visits at any higher level, and the foreign minister I took here literally two days ago, we haven't had, well, for over 9.9 years. This was my last visit to the Ukrainian minister in 2004. How could we under these conditions expand our cooperation with SCO, China, or other nations? That's why very shortly after the new government was voted in this room, we're also going to activate our relationship with China. The result was a visit by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of China, a member of Politburo, a very influential man, to Ukraine. An agreement has been reached for our President's visit in the fall. Before that, a whole series of meetings of intergovernmental committees from trade and economic co-operation, from WTS, from space should be held. All of this allows us to talk in a substantive way about serious, extensive cooperation with China for the nearest medium-term and strategic perspective and to adequately address the issue of our involvement in the SCO in one form or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u47	Yuri Serbin, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u48	Please pass the word to your colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u49	Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u50	Dear Constantine Ivanovich, about the cat in the dark room and the outstretched hand. You were in the most tense period of political relations in Russia-Ukraine, an ambassador to Russia. You are well aware of the trends that have taken place in Russia over the past year and have reigned in Ukraine for decades. The famous Center, headed by Natalia Narocnicka, the Narishkin Institute of Truth, the work – Sergija Karaganova, Presligina – “Games on the World Chess Board” is dedicated to a very large part of what is called “Ukraine: a failed project”. The concierge Natalia, the deputy of the Derjduma, mentioned to me, says that. In response to the Ukrainian state, she says, “Well, it’s a misunderstanding. ” And if it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u51	Complete your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u52	And if there is a Ukrainian language, she said, “It’s the same speech as Vologodski. ” So how do you build these relationships, and how can you look for priority positions and equations if there are these ideologies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u53	Well, in every country, and if it's large, there's scope for certain people to express thoughts that are not only unacceptable to us, but also unacceptable to most of Russian society. I don’t know why we should pay attention to such comments, even if they are printed in books. They need to be debated, debated at the level of those who have a different opinion. On the interstate level, we have a completely different dialogue, a dialogue based on the search for common interests, on the need to solve problems that are objectively existing, on the basis of mutual respect and understanding of the complexities that our society and Russian face. You know, sometimes when I was driving around Russia, I was surprised that you were coming to Karelia, head of Carelia at the official dinner for the first time, the second time, and the third time I said, "We're the same region as everyone else." I'm surprised that in Ukraine, the Žitomir region, they're going to say that it's completely different from everyone else. You'll go to any place, there's Chernivetsk, and here they keep saying she's like everybody else. Tea I asked, well, Tatarstan is the same as Karelia. The construction of the states of Ukraine and Russia is different. Well, maybe no one should teach us how to build a state inside the country, and we probably shouldn't be doing any evaluation, because there's no significant relation to that dialogue that we're actually leading with the friendly Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u54	Leonid Kojara, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u55	Dear Constantine Ivanovich, it is clear that the deepening of Ukraine's relations with the Russian Federation, the return to strategic partnership, has already produced positive results not only at the bilateral level for Ukraine and Russia, but today it is clear that the issue of European security also has an impact on these issues. In particular, the world’s return of Russia and Ukraine to the Transnistrian settlement dialogue is very positive. And it is also quite obvious that the better the relationship between Ukraine and Russia in general, the issues of the Transistrian settlement will also be resolved successfully. But the statement on the question of Transnistria is quite general. Please tell me, what next step will Ukraine take? Is this going to be a return?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u56	Please finish your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u57	The question is. Will Ukraine take any new initiatives today, from the perspective of the Transnistrian settlement? And how will the format "5+2" be revamped? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u58	A joint statement. The goal is to give new impetus to those processes that have been going on for a long time, even though they're going through a formal, a search, a negotiation process, it's never stopped. There were breaks, but it continued throughout these many years the existence of latent conflict in this region. For us, it is important not to take initiatives for the sake of initiative; it is important for us to form a position that would be supported in another country by the guarantor, the OSCE, and most important in Transnistria and Moldova. We've just taken stock of all these initiatives, and many of them, you remember, were Yuschenka's initiative, was Kozak's initiative. For various reasons, neither one nor the other received support from one side or from a few. That's why we think that a substantive dialogue with Russia as another guarantor country, a constant contact with the government of Moldova, discussing all issues with the authority of Transnistria is an important component, an important component of making such a position, where we would be grateful to any of our partners for giving them their name. But we will keep our thoughts to ourselves, and we will not be modest if we succeed. So I would say this, we're doing a very active search, the most acceptable one for the parties and the kind that suits our interests with new approaches to the question of the Transnistrian settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u59	Zinov Skutak, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u60	Dear Constantine Ivanovich! Please tell us if you believe that Ukraine can become a member of the European Union without becoming a NATO member. Because the last of the 1990s, all the countries that joined the European Union, they went through NATO, maybe then we as Ukraine are just waiting for NATO to join Russia? How will our younger brother join NATO after them? Because in my view, in the European Union, we will not be able to do anything without implementing the laws that are in Ukraine that we must be NATO members.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. I would say that there are clear examples of the entry of neutral or non-blocking countries that are not NATO members into the European Union. This is not a legal precondition in any way; it is not a political precondition; it has never once been promoted by any political authority in the country of a member of the European Union. Our main problem, our main challenge in integration into the European Union, is standards, it's the approximation of our legislation, it's legal reform, it's all we need. But security, as it is, is not part of the European Union's direct missions, although the European Union's role in this area is now trying to determine, but to determine how it is necessary to rely on its own resources, mainly on the resolution of those conflicts, or outside the territory itself, of the members of the European Union, who are nevertheless of particular interest to the European Union as such. So when we declare a policy that fits the actual state of affairs, and Ukraine is actually a non-block state, it's not one block today. We do not create any obstacles to continuing active cooperation and promoting Euro integration, these issues are unrelated. Moreover, if promotion, or a declaration of a desire to join NATO, leads to increased tension in relations between nations around us, that is not at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u62	Mikola Giga, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's refusing to ask. Dmitri Schentz, faction of the Party of the Regions. Neither did I. Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u63	Dear Constantine Ivanovich, I'm here. Jaroslav Kenzior, MP “For Ukraine!” We know that Russia has unilaterally declared itself the sole successor of the Soviet Union. In view of the fact that today’s government, the Yanukovich team, has established such a close and friendly relationship with Russia. So do you think, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, as a member of this team to make a request to Russia, a request, however, to return the stolen savings of Ukrainian citizens? One. Return some of the property of the Soviet Union abroad? And make up for at least a fraction of the moral loss for the millions destroyed by famine, reprisals and so on and so forth. It would be a good gesture, as it were, of our strategic neighbour to Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u64	Well, the question of the return of citizens' contributions is one that is being discussed. And that's the question that's in the perspective of the process that we're conducting with the Russian Federation. It's about property. Over the years, we have been asking this question to the Russian side. As you know, in a number of capitals, we blocked property registration from the Soviet Union to the Russian Federation. But let's think together, once again, when the corresponding protocol was signed in Dagomis, the situation was that Ukraine only had representations in New York and this was in a house that was shared. It was legalized from the very beginning in the Belarusian RSR, the Russian Federation of RSFSR and the Ukrainian RSR. In the territory of the former Soviet, then Russian representation in Geneva, just like in Vienna, and in Paris, that question was not relevant in terms of two, three, five, or as many as millions, it was essential to solve it, to build diplomatic service, so that people could start working. During the period since then, we have embassies in over 80 countries. In a large number of them, these are houses in our possession. In terms of our interests, we need to continue to raise this question and put it in the right plane, but we need to know and realize that it's not so much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u65	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u66	And from what's new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u67	Thank you. Constantine Ivanovich, time is up. We've been working for an hour. Dear colleagues, let us thank the minister of foreign affairs for providing us with complete objective information. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations on Friday, we have time to make parliamentary inquiries. Let me do this job. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: ANDRYA SCHOOL to the President of Ukraine to confirm the existence of lease agreements with the Russian Federation for the founding of the Black Sea fleet and to provide copies of them. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:09:05]] For 133 Request not supported. Vladimir YAVORlSKI to the President of Ukraine about explaining for which personal and professional merit before Ukraine was given thanks and a naming watch by the deputy head of the Council of the Russian-speaking Russian-speaking Movement, Ruslan Bortnik, who co-organised a scandalous exhibition in the Ukrainian House: "Vollin massacre: Polish and Jewish victims of UN-OPA", which distorts historical truth and provokes international hatred. I'm sorry, hate. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:09:53]] For a hundred and Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:10:14]] For-157. Request not supported. Andrija SCHOOL to the President of Ukraine on the examination of the facts of brutal political pressure by the authorities of the Russian Federation on Ukrainian cultural and educational organizations of Russia. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:10:48]] For-144 Request not supported. In connection with the illegal closure of the buffer zones of the “Sofia Kyivska” National Reserve, which means the continuation of Kyiv’s spiritual culture and may lead to the withdrawal of the reserve from the UNESCO World Heritage List, which will have a negative impact on Ukraine’s historical and cultural image in the world. Gregory OMELČENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal alienation of the land of Muromac Island, without responding to these violations of legislation, the head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources of Oleg Kulinić. Eugene KARJKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on abuses in the implementation of the State Privatisation Programme in 2009. Igor ŠAROV to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take action to promote small business development. Igor ŠAROV to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for full financing of measures in the area of environmental recovery of the Dniper basin and improvement of drinking water quality. Leonida GRAČ to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the catastrophic situation that took place in the “Dolosses” sanatorium or “Dolosses” of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the conservation and development of the Sofia National Dandrological Park in Umani. MICHELLA to Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures to reduce greenhouse emissions in the city of Dnipropetrovsk as part of the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the prospects for Ukraine's development of its own marine shelf oil and gas fields. Aleksandra TKACZENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the situation in the Kyiv Zoo. Mr Paul KIJOVSKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the preservation of the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska on the UNESCO World Cultural Acquisition List. Ms. Gordijenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on the need for immediate assistance to the health care facilities of the Poltava region in the provision of oral polio vaccine and complex vaccines against diphtheria, cough, gum, bark, parotit and rubella. SERGEANT GORDIENKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, on the need to allocate funds to support individual housing construction in the country under the "own house" program. The National Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine's Group on the Confirmation of Information on the Plan of Deputy Chief of Administration of Ukraine, Hanna Herman, and Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Seminozhenko, on the release of the leadership of the National Radio Company of Ukraine and the reorganization of the company into the Media Holding system of the People's Deputy, Andrija Derkach. [[TRAINING, TRAVEL, AND OTHERS]] Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the urgent use of measures of response and verification of violations of the size and inter-water protection zones and the management of economic activity, the hydrological and hydrogeological regime of Lake Bluetne, located in the village of Podgorka, the Obuhi district of Kiev, the rights of citizens to use natural objects, the constitutional rules of Ukraine, the Earth Code of Ukraine, the Water Code of Ukraine during the conduct of meliorrhocratic work on the designated lands of the water fund, the provision of conservation and restoration of natural water resources, the ecological microclimate of individuals, and the sensitive nature of the lake. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the citizenship of the Ukrainian civil servant, the First Deputy Minister of Ukraine for Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, Andrija Palchevski, and his compliance with the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. [[JERESIAH, TELUM, AND OTHERS]] Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications, the Minister of Transport and Communications of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy on the Inadequate Quality of Capital Linkage on the Network "MTS Ukraine" and "Kievstar" on the territory of the Bosov Rural Council of the Kyiv-Svetoshin region of Kiev. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the confirmation of the existence of contracts for the rental of state - owned property by the Russian Federation for the establishment of the Black Sea fleet and the provision of copies of such contracts. Andrija SCHOOL to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the examination of the facts of the severe political pressure by the authorities of the Russian Federation on Ukrainian cultural and educational organizations of Russia. Victor Tarana to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the proposal of the President of Russia to present the interests of Ukraine at the meetings of the Great Eight and the Twenty. ARCENIA JACENJA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of information on the cost of production by the consortium "The Only State Automated Passport System" passport form of a Ukrainian citizen to go abroad and its entry price for the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. VICTOR SINCHENKA to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the unlawful alienation of the farmland leased to the House of the Mother Hero in Love Panchenko, which raises 20 children in a family-type children's home in the village of Mala Wilshanka Obuchi district of Kiev. OLEGO ZARUBINSKH to the Minister of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine on the ability and mechanisms to resist the promotion of cruelty and violence on Ukrainian television. Alexander ŠEPELEVA to the Ukrainian Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on Taking Action to Eliminate the Subwarfing Effects in the Zakarpatsk, Lviv and Ivano-Frankiv regions. Helen ŠUSTIK to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the need to take steps to ensure the constitutional rights of pensioners who have gone to a permanent place abroad, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of October 7, 2009. Edouard PRUTNIK to the Ministry of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine, Ministry of Economics, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, State Price Control Inspectorate of Ukraine on the appeal of the All-Ukrainian Union of Regional Employers' Organisations of the Housing and Communal Industry "Federation of Workers of the Housing and Communal Sector of Ukraine" on the need for regulatory and legal regulation of housing services in the State with a view to ensuring the development of the housing and utility sector. Mr. Eduard PRUTNIK to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Customs Service of Ukraine regarding the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of a disabled worker, a pensioner, a resident of the village of Pokosich of the village of Korop district of Chernigiv district of Alexander Rudenka. Mr. Vladimir DANILENKA to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the inaction of the authorities of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office in considering the statements made by the head of the agricultural and agricultural holding "KAMIS" Alexander Kozak and the involvement of officials of the internal affairs authorities of Ukraine and the Ukrainian prosecutor's office in the spread of corruption. Vassil, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, for the protection of the constitutional rights of the Galicina creditors. [[m. Ternopil]] THE head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the illegal possession of state property, namely the building of the Kyiv Central University, addressed to the street. Goddan Hmielnických, 2. Mr. Paul Silent to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the legality of the establishment in the city of Luhansk, of the "Residents of Luganskin, lying at the hands of the UN-OPA nationalist cartels" and for the responsibility of those responsible for fuelling civil conflicts and distorting historical facts. Irina BREAKDOWN TO THE Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, Head of the Central Audit and Audit Authority of Ukraine for the conduct of a comprehensive financial and economic audit of the Open Shareholder Society of the Kyiv Central Universages for the purpose of protecting the public share in the statutory capital of the Open Shareholders Society in the process of restructuring of which private shareholders illegally acquired state ownership, namely the building of the Kyiv Central Universage at the address of: ul. Goddan Hmielnických, 2. OXANA BILOSIR to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for the verification of the validity of the increase in commission payments paid by Ukrainian citizens in the payment of mobile services, cable television through terminals of the system of instant payments and possible misuse of the monopoly in this area. Ulysses MOSTIPAN to the Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of the Financial Services Markets of Ukraine regarding the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal for violation of the terms of payment of the insurance to private shareholders of the Brokbiznes Insurance Company, a citizen of Natalia Schmyr, who lives in a village of the city type of Rocket Kyiv region. Ms. Arsenija JACENJAK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the decision of the Herson City Council of May 12, 2010, No. 1500 on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Secretary of the Herson City Council of Jury the Funeral. Mr. Vladimir DANILENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of housing rights and the illegal deprivation of the right to privatize the residence of residents on the streets of Jaroslavska, 4th city of Ohtirka Sumska oblast. MICHELLE RUDEN TO THE U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine for the consideration of appeals by the procurator’s agencies regarding the conclusion of contracts for the organization of the congregation, the preparation and disposal of waste as secondary raw materials. Roman ZABZALJUK to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the failure to carry out the mandate of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the failure of the Prosecutor's Office of the Mikolayiv Region to respond to a parliamentary appeal regarding the possible illegal possession of property of a citizen of Olga Batakova in the city of Mikolayev. Jury KRUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the protection of the legitimate rights of a citizen of Viktor Kanevsky. YURIA MIROCHNIZENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the circumstances of the reopening of the criminal case against Julia Timoshenko. John STAYK AND JOURNA CARMAZIN to the Attorney General on the examination of the facts of the inappropriate response of the authorities to the crime and the judicial investigation of the crime committed with regard to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Olesia Donya, to verify the legality of the actions of medical personnel at Feofania Hospital, to take appropriate measures of response. Mr. Mikli JANKOVSKI to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Renata Kuzmin, for the protection of the rights of the Ukrainian National Company's labour team, Ukkrimtrasamak. LITHUANIA’S Jury to the head of the Kirovograd Regional Public Administration regarding the introduction of the Krasnosilk University of Education (I-II) graduated from the Alexandrov Region of Kyrovograd to the list of socio-economic development objects at the expense of state subsidies. Thus, honourable national MPs have made 60 parliamentary inquiries. And one more thing. Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin asked the Permanent Representative of the International Monetary Fund in Ukraine, head of the World Bank representation in Ukraine, to the Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in Ukraine. I cannot make this request because it is not the prerogative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide whether to apply for foreign representations. I think the National MP has the right to contact the appropriate letter if that's necessary, if that's what you need. I have no right. Otherwise, we will still be the Supreme Council of Ukraine making decisions to listen to reports of foreign representations at the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine – this does not fit into any international framework. I say again, I will not ask this question for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- we have no basis for that. Dear National Deputies! We, you have a list of issues to consider. Today we have to consider three bills relating to the preparations and the final part of the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine. So there's this proposal, the honourable colleagues, that we should consider these laws at the same time, vote on each of them separately, and considering that we have only one hour left to consider the bills, let's consider them as a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? So I'm voting to consider Bill 6411, 6412, 6309 at the same time and under the same procedure. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u68	For the reports to be on all drafts, and then we will discuss them and vote separately. He'll see to it. [[11:25:06]] For 295 The Supreme Council of Ukraine, as one politician put it, can do anything. Dear colleagues! Such a proposal is made by Deputy Finance Minister Ribak Sergey Aleksandrovich, then by Bill 6309 by National Deputy Zac Alexander Viktorovich, and then by the Committee by National Deputy Homutinnik, First Deputy or Deputy Head of the Committee? First Deputy Head of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee. And after that discussion. Is there no objection? There's a denial in Yuri Carmazin, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u69	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I understand everything, there's company, there's something else to simplify, but let's not violate the rights of national MPs. We are now doing a reduced procedure, we are not going to ask any questions, nothing, so let's at least give each one normal reports, every time there will be a conclusion, and then there will be two in favour, two in the opposite, because that's what we're doing in the first place. The opposition, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, was not hired! So let's stick to our rights, too, I'm not saying that now you didn't want to publish my request, and it's very simple, and I wanted to lead to the famous international institutions of Ukraine that the constitutionally predicted term in Stelmacha went off, that they had no right to deal with it, and they didn't have to force our property or our future!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can decide on the procedure for reviewing the bill with a reduced version, this is the first. The other one. In accordance with article 28 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure Act, the chairman may merge the consideration of a number of laws that deal with the same issue, namely, there are no legal violations. If we have pressure from individual deputies to express our point of view, I'm sure he'll get that opportunity. So I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to agree with this argument. Sergey Alexanderovich Rybak, Deputy Minister of Finance, please. Since the report on the two bills is four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill, submitted by the government at number 6411, provides for changes in the implementation of the national target programme for the preparation and implementation of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine and the implementation of the three guarantees called Customs, which were given by Ukraine in preparation and participation in the UEFA tender for the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. This guarantee provides for the provision of a simplified and duty-free import procedure, the removal of UEFA by participants and designated persons of the goods needed to hold the final part of the European Football Championship. However, the position of the current edition of the Ukrainian Act on the organisation and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine does not allow the full implementation of the mentioned guarantees granted by Ukraine to UEFA. [[at number 962-O]] In particular, in accordance with article 11, paragraph 1, of the Act, imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of the goods for the championship are made in the customs regime of temporary importation according to both the quantity and the order indicated by law. By the law we propose, we give such authorization to the government for a clearer position on the rules and procedures and import into customs territory, and simplification of these procedures of the goods listed. We understand that the implementation of the bill will result in some temporary loss of the income part of the budget, but we ask that we consider that this championship, as demonstrated by the practice of holding such championships, will in the shortest possible time provide additional revenue to the state budget on the basis of the inflow of funds that will bring participants and visitors to Ukraine to the championship, as well as a boost to the national economy, which will also increase the profits of those enterprises that will be active. That's why we're proposing to adopt this bill. And we suggest we do it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention. The second bill, also submitted by the government to speed up preparations for the Euro-2012 Championship, provides for exemption from taxation of such a procedure as the distribution of sales of football tickets and other services. [[by number 6412]] The bill has also been drafted for the purpose of implementing the number 11 guarantee given by Ukraine to UEFA, which is entitled “Freedom from Taxation and Support of Tax Authorities for the Final Part of the Ukraine Football Championship”. Guarantee 11, in particular, provided for by the UEFA, that this organization will not be subject to any of its revenues, revenues, negotiable funds, or capital tax in Ukraine or any other similar tax as a result of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine, and that this organization is meant to receive maximum tax compensation for the added value of the accelerated procedure. Ukraine has also guaranteed UEFA that in the event of a lack of compliance with Ukraine’s current safeguards legislation 11 Ukraine will ensure the adoption of new or changes to Ukraine’s existing legislation. Therefore, it is proposed to exempt from taxes on added value sales of tickets and hospitality packages at the 2012 European Championship from football in Ukraine during the 2012 European Cup finals and finals. This will ensure the implementation of the 11th exemption from taxation and the support of the tax authorities granted by Ukraine to UEFA. We ask that this law be passed in general as one that does not raise further questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u72	Just a minute. All right, have a seat, please. National MP Zac Alexander Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u73	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's draft law on amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the development and preparation of emergency infrastructure is designed to improve Ukraine's legislation in connection with the preparations for the final part of the 2012 European Championship, which will be important for the creation of a positive image of Ukraine in the world and will affect the further socio-economic development of our country. The main purpose and purpose of the bill. First. Legislative definition of the term “hotel”, “hotel service”, “similar accommodation” since the terms mentioned are not in Ukrainian legislation. The other one. Creating an enabling environment for investors to build new buildings, reconstructions, capital repairs, or restoration of existing buildings and buildings, and technical refurbishment of hotels. It is therefore proposed for 10 years, starting on 1 January 2011, to exempt the income tax received by hotels in category “5”, “4” and “3 stars”. In the event that such hotels, including newly built or renovated hotels, have undergone capital repairs or restorations of existing buildings and buildings, have been put into service by September 1, 2012. The implementation of the law does not require additional costs at the expense of the state budget. The budgetary losses resulting from the temporary granting of tax benefits to investors participating in the preparations and the holding of the championship will be covered by additional revenues to public and local budgets as a result of increased services provided by relevant operators during and after the championship, as well as by the creation of new jobs for investors. The implementation of the proposed law will contribute to the timely implementation of the package of measures necessary for the proper preparations for the 2012 Euro Championship in Ukraine, which will be positively identified in the socio-economic situation and the international image of Ukraine as a European state. Increases in the income of households of the household type, decreases in the cost of hotel enterprises, increases in the wage and level funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u74	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u75	The main scientific and expert body in the general conclusion supports this bill and this bill can be adopted as a basis. Please support the offer. I look forward to your support, distinguished people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u76	Thank you, Alexander Viktorovich. Vitaly Homutinnik, First Deputy Head of the Tax and Customs Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u77	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered all the bills. And in order to consider the committee and the Supreme Council, I have to report them. As far as Bill 6411 is concerned. This is about amendments to four Ukrainian laws: the Ukrainian Customs Code Act, the Ukrainian Act on Organising and Conducting the Final Part of the 2012 European Championship of Football in Ukraine, the Ukraine Tax Act on Added Costs and Ukraine's Only Customs Tariff. Given that the state has been given guarantees that provide for a simplified and duty-free procedure for importing and exporting to the finals of the football championship, both personal and other things that are necessary for the championship. The committee supports the adoption of this bill. But we have considered in detail the technical positions of this bill and agreed, along with the committee and representatives representing the government, that we can accept today in the first reading. Because there are a number of technical details that we have to work on in about a week. And already in the next plenary week, we're going to adopt this bill as a whole. Therefore, the proposal for Bill 6411 is accepted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u78	And all the following bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u79	And then I'm the other bills that were to be considered. 6412 is a bill that contains a rule of exemption from tax on tickets to the championship. The committee agrees with this proposal and recommends that it be supported. But there is still a sentence about services. We've come to agree to do it again in this way. And taking into account the committee's drafting of the bill in the first reading and in the whole. [[6412]] Because it's essentially shorter and there's no such thing as dealing with experts. So it's the first part about tickets, the release of tax tickets to the added value of leaving them there. Further, the services involved should be supplemented by the following: “The services provided by UEFA during the final part of the competition. The list of services exempt from tax on added value is determined by a separate law.” So today we don't know the representatives who represented on the UEFA committee today can't tell us what a clear list of these services will be. I think the Supreme Council will at any time be able to adopt a separate law when it is known with a clear list of services that will require exemption. And we're going to react quickly to these proposals. Therefore, taking into account the committee’s proposal for a bill, the proposal to accept it in its first reading and in its entirety. [[6412]] As for the bill submitted by the Zac People's MP, Prasolonov, Prutnik, Stelmashenko. This is a temporary exemption from tax on the income of hotels and hotel services. This is a 10-year release for hotels 3.4, 5 stars that have been put into service and will be put into service by September 1, 2012 or reconstructed. This standard is clear. Today we need to develop infrastructure and invest in Ukraine in order to quickly and qualitatively build hotels. Well, we don't have much time to do all these infrastructure issues. So, of course, the committee supports the proposal to stimulate, thus, investment incentives for building and rebuilding of hotels. The committee decided to support the bill in its first reading. Again, for the next, perhaps, week after week, be delivered in a second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u80	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a bill discussion. Please record. Names of the national MPs, please. Pavlovski People's Deputy, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u81	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please pass the word to Sergio Teryohin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u82	Sergei Teryohin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u83	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Indeed, the committee today considered these three bills at such a strong pace. I would just like to point out that, unfortunately, these bills have been filed in violation of the Rules. You can't. I would urge the government not to put the deputies in an awkward position. They were introduced yesterday, and, you know, at this rate, well, it's just impossible to work. The first bill was quite ill-constructed, and we were looking at these positions on the committee today. It has to be taught in a completely different way to get the same effect that the government wanted. The second bill, once again, Vitali Juryovich said, could be adopted as a whole, but it could be said that UEFA services should be provided by a separate law. I remind you of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which prohibits any function of the Supreme Council from being delegated to the executive authority, including taxing. Well, the last bill, I think we're in a hurry right now if we're taking it even in the first reading, because there has to be another philosophy, but in order to remember that question, let's also support it in the first reading, but we have to work on it for a long time, well, pretty hard. So, according to the last bill, if decisions were to be taken on a reduced procedure, that is, the last bill, I would ask you not to do so. First of all, you can do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u84	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u85	Thank you, Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, making changes to current legislation in connection with the European Football Championship in Ukraine is not a new topic. But the situation that led up to it, for example, yesterday, does not mean that we are not familiar with the subject. The laws in question were still in existence. But what I would like to pay attention to in discussing this problem. Well, that's the first thing that there are certain budget losses, and the Cabinet of Ministers, by introducing this bill, is obviously thinking about how to compensate them. The issue of transparency of administration should also be taken into account, for there will certainly be those who want to warm their hand in preparation for this European football festival. And of course, there's a certain lobbyism here, a desire to make a profit in this pan-European action. But what I want to say is that when Ukraine chose to hold the European Football Championship, it made certain commitments and gave certain guarantees. Thus, the adoption of these laws is in the context of fulfilling those obligations and guarantees that exist. So the faction of Communists in the first two bills actually supports them with certain reservations. As far as the third bill is concerned. It's obviously going to have to work harder on him here, because, if you'll excuse me, it's open lobbying. I understand that we need to take steps to meet those who prepare the infrastructure for the European Championship, but for 10 years to take away the income tax hotels, it's probably too much. So, honourable colleagues, let's work very seriously on these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u87	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I have already come from this rostrum to pay attention to the disparity of approaches. And now I'm calling your attention once again, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, because he was personally approachable to you when it came to Bill 3004, introduced by Karmazin. It was introduced on July 23, 2008, and was involved in the state support and development of the tourism industry in Ukraine in preparing and hosting the 2012 European Football Championship. So if they'd listened then and looked, and a number of the committees were looking at him. And the discussion was public, that's all. We predicted how to build hotels, how to stimulate everything. So, in agreement with the thought now expressed by my colleague Cibenko about the third bill, a bill that was introduced, openly outlawed. Those hotels that are standing right now, they're ten years ahead of us. It's a little cynical. So I will not vote for him, and I urge you not to. I'd just like to say, come on, ladies and gentlemen, just honor yourself, not just hotel owners, and let's create the opportunity to build new hotels and create opportunities. With regard to the two projects referred to, 6411 and 6412, I am grateful to a colleague of Homutinik, who, on behalf of the committee, said the absolute right thing, unfortunately, would have to vote. I think we have to agree, even though the logic of the position is that there is nothing to disagree with, we have to agree, because they're asking the question that the list of services should be determined by a separate law, because it's the Constitution that requires it to be a separate law. As far as I'm concerned, I'm in favour of two readings of this bill, 6412. 6411 — there is a danger that this law can be distributed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u88	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u89	Vladimir Mikhailovich, these are three laws: three laws and one of three.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u90	Yuri Anatolyevich, please. We're implementing the Supreme Council's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u91	I'm done. That is why I agree with such estimates that Law 6411, as our classic Terjehochin said, is “unsettled”. This is why in order for the first part here, where it is written “temporarily for the period of the Ukrainian Act on Organizing and Performing the Final Part of the 12th Football Championship”, and it works as a reminder to you since 1 January 2008, we may have a situation where everything that has been imported or imported will be imported since 2008. For this to happen, God forbid, there must be a rule on the legal relationship that arose after the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There's this proposal, and I'm paying attention to the committee that you can't keep working like this. Since Bill 3004 was introduced, author Yuri Karmazin does not review the committee as early as 23.07.2008, and the bills introduced were examined. That's why there's this proposal, given the attention of all committee leaders, we need to consider all the bills, now give Yuri Carmazin the right to base his bill and we'll put it to a vote. Is there no objection? Under a reduced procedure, of course, because it is not possible to do so, it is a bill. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, report on Bill 3004. The point is, your honor, he's in the agenda, he's in 2008 and he's not being considered by the committee, but he has a right to demand. Let's take down this contradiction. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u93	Dear people's deputies, it's Yuri Carmazin again. I wasn't quite ready for this kind of democracy, not even quite ready. But once in a while, your will, well, I'll do it. Dear friends, the aim of the adoption of the law is to provide national policy in the field of tourism, to improve the domestic legal framework in this area and to harmonize with international standards with the aim of the most effective implementation of the tourist and investment potential of Ukraine, to develop comprehensive tourism infrastructure, to be active. Considering that the bill is aimed at building Ukrainian tourism infrastructure in all regions of Ukraine, not just cities where Euro-2012 football matches will take place. The expected involvement of construction investments and reconstruction of hotels, motels, sanatoriums, boarding houses, museums, and architectural monuments, as we calculated, would amount to at least 50 billion dollars. One of the main indicators recommended by the global tourism organization, which describes the level of development of tourism infrastructure in the country, is the number, the employment of the population in the tourist sector. In developed countries, this rate is between 8 and 12 percent; in Ukraine today it is only 1 percent. Therefore, the basic provisions of the bill, this law extends to the legal relations that are governed by the Tourism Act, are defined by certain new hotels, here are measures of state support for the tourism industry in Ukraine. It was suggested that, from the date of entry into force of the Act, such measures of State support had been introduced by January 1, a mandatory reservation and sale of land for the construction of hotels in district centres, in the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, at least 5 percent of the total size of land allocated to construction sites per year. Next. It was supposed to be a sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u94	Finish it, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please finish, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u95	Thank you. During this period, State development support measures have been implemented, such as the release from involvement in the development of engineering and social infrastructure in the settlements. I clearly anticipated the reasons and order of exemption from tax on imported materials and equipment in article 5. I also foresaw in the article the enforcement of this law. And we predict certain benefits, but these benefits are completely smaller than those mentioned in those laws. And I would like to ask you to adopt this law in the first reading. I can't give it all to you in two minutes because it has 10 articles in its scope. I just want to say that it was calculated by the public, by associations, and even by some committees, and even by some deputies, they helped me to create this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Now we're going to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. [[Registration number 6411]] Please, Sergey Teryohin. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Once again, the committee asked, when adopting the Order on taking the basis of this law, to assign a separate section of the Cabinet of Ministers to the second reading to submit the codes of the UTZED, which have, well, goods to be released. I mean, we should already have a complex law on our second reading. If you can do that, please let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any objection. And with this addition to the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with which we will determine the adoption of the Law as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the Customs Formation of Goods for the Preparation and Conduct of the Final Part of the European 2012 Football Championship in Ukraine]] Please vote. [[11:55:57]] For 321 Decision taken. Now for Bill 6412. The committee proposes to adopt it as a basis and generally as a law that takes into account the proposals put forward by the committee during the report on the bill. Yes. That's why I vote in accordance with the Rules on adoption as the basis of the draft Law with the Committee's proposals. Please vote. [[11:56:43]] For 323 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Now it's a proposal to adopt the bill as a law. I am voting on this proposal, namely the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukraine Act on Added Cost Tax." [[on Taxation at the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine]] [[Registration number 6412]] Please vote for the adoption of the project as a law. [[Yes, the committee's editorial, of course. That's what I'm stressing right now.]] [[11:57:30.]] For 335 The law is passed. Thank you. Now, honourable colleagues, on Bill 6309. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. This is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the development and preparation of emergency infrastructure for the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. Again, registration number 6309. Please vote on the basis. [[11:58:14]] For 226 Decision taken. Now, dear fellows. Notice whose voice was the last? Headmaster. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. The regionals are 169. "Julia Tymoshenko" – 25, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 8, Communists – 1, "Litvina Block" – 20, non-fractional – 3. That is what experience means when you feel that one voice is not enough. Dear colleagues, now the bill of Yuri Carmazin. The first sentence is to accept as a basis. The committee proposes to re-read. I am voting on the first proposal: to adopt the draft Act on State Support for the Development of the Tourism Industry in Ukraine in preparation for the 2012 European Football Championship. Please vote. [[11:59:34]] For-103 There weren't enough voices. The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the second sentence: return to read again. Please vote. Registration number 3004. [[12:00:01]] For 128 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the issue of permanent suspension. Oh, then we'll take a break. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u99	Please take your seats, we'll continue our sessions. Please, mic, Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We had a bill yesterday to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. [[3176]] [[concerning the extradition of a person]] Extradition. Why am I paying attention to this right now? We did not reach him yesterday, but the question is very important and serious, for to this day Ukraine does not fully discharge its obligations to those countries where we have the proper treaty on the issue of wrongdoers and criminals. I can give an example that in the last few days, the courts have released three criminals who have been hiding in our country who have committed crimes in other lands. And it's clear that those countries that see that there is no legislation in Ukraine, because the court doesn't know how to deal with these issues except for the convention. I'm asking him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u101	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u102	I'm asking him to put it on today. In view of the consultations with these political forces, all the political forces in the first reading supported it, immediately after yesterday’s and today’s consultations they support it. The reporter is Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich ready to report this bill. And we have to take it all the way so that the image of Ukraine in this cooperation among other states is at the same level as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u103	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch. Dear colleagues, indeed, the problem is what Sergey Grigorovitch has already talked about. So if there's no objection, let's do it quickly. Is the committee ready, Volodymyr Romanovich? Let's quickly adopt this law in the second reading, and move on to our order of the day. No notes? Please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u104	Vladimir Moses. The parliamentary group “For Ukraine! ” Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The law in first reading is supported by representatives of all our factions. During his preparation for his second reading, 146 amendments were made to the law - abiding initiative. 101 are included in whole or in part; 45 are rejected. The bill was worked on by representatives of the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Justice, the General Legal Office. There were three meetings of our committee to consider amendments to the bill. Of the rejected amendments, Adam Ivanovich, most of Yuri Karmazin. But it's not because they're wrong, it's because they've changed the numbering of articles, the numbering of parts, the terminology. And they've just lost their relevance. There are almost no significant deviations in his observations. So the committee is proposing this bill to your mind. And, if possible, not counting the corrections that are counted and rejected, but giving the word to those who insist on their amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u105	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. In this way, we are considering Bill 3176 with you: a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the extradition of persons. [[Extraditions]] I refer to those national deputies whose amendments are not taken into account. Do they insist on reasoning and voting on these amendments? You don't? There will be no denying that we should immediately put to the vote: on the adoption of the law as a whole as a law? You don't? Then I put to the vote: the adoption of the Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code on the Extradition of Persons. [[Extraditions]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u106	Vote, Yuri Anatolyovich. [[12:34:16]] For 297 Thank you, the law has been passed. Yes, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u107	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have made changes and additions to the part of the first article of the sixth new paragraph, where the reason for the cessation of the criminal case is if the consent of the State that issued the person is not obtained. It's just, please think about it, everyone, it's just a waste. Why? What should we do? A criminal case must then be set aside in separate conduct and investigated in Ukraine until that person appears. So I think this thing is a purely lobbyist thing. The law is necessary, the law is right, the law is normal, but we need to exclude such things from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u108	Yes, thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. There is a question of a permanent suspension of the powers of individual national deputies. Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council, Makeienko Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u109	Thank you. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 6385-2 on the termination of the mandate of the national deputy Kostuyev Aleksija Alexiyyovich. At his meeting, the committee reviewed and supported the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Kostusev Aleksija Alexiyyovich, concerning his appointment as head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. On the basis of the first part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine”, the Committee decided to support the application and made an appropriate draft decree on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Kostusev Aleksija Alexiyovich, number 6385-2. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to suspend the mandate of the national deputy Kostusev, Bill 6385-2. Please vote. [[12:36:58]] For 303 Decision taken. Please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u111	Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 6385, on the termination of the mandate of the national deputy, Laryna Sergio Mikolaiovich. At his meeting, the committee reviewed and supported the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Larina Sergio Mikolaiovich, concerning his appointment as head of the Kirovograd District Authority. On the basis of the first part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", the Committee decided to support the application and put in place an appropriate draft decree on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Larina Sergio Mikolaiovich, under number 6385. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council's decree to suspend the terms of office of the Ukrainian national deputy Larina, Bill 6385. Please vote. [[12:38:19]] For 303 303, both times. Thank you, Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u113	Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u114	The question is: a report by the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of cases related to charges of depraved minors, the head of the commission, Samuelka Catherine Seminovna. Catherine Seed, how much for your report?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u115	Adam Ivanovich, I'll try for a little more than five minutes. If you don't mind, I'll be there in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u116	Ten minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the commission composed of Me, Souslaw, Bobilov, Korja, Tereshuk was included in the Temporary Special Commission. In view of the specificity of the matter, the commission focused its work on the work of the relevant government authorities, inviting information, analytical materials without interfering or influencing the course of the investigation. More than 20 commissions were given to the knowledge bodies, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Bureau of the United States of America, aimed at carrying out a set of operational and investigational measures to verify the involvement of the perpetrators of the crime in which children were identified as sex offenders. At present, in accordance with the investigation plan, follow-up actions and search-and-research measures are being completed, aimed at a comprehensive and objective examination of all the circumstances of the case in accordance with the requirements of criminal justice. The case involved a considerable amount of investigation and investigation, including the reproduction of the circumstances and circumstances of the victims, searches, removals, more than 330 witnesses interviewed, 45 forensic, computer, forensic and psychiatric forensic experts. More of these findings were obtained, but no evidence is available to support the victim’s testimony. In particular, psychological and physiological research has been carried out using a polygraph on Ukrainian national deputies Teryochina, Bogdan, and Novozilova, Piewski, whose findings have not confirmed their involvement in sexual activities in relation to child victims. The forensic expertise of the accused Poluchovich and the witnesses of Dunaev, Piewski, Novožil's signs of active or passive homosexuality in the persons concerned has not been established. In the presence of the defendant Poluchovich, possible manifestations of unconventional sexual orientation were questioned by persons at their residence, by the work done by his connections contained in the books. Information on Poluchovich’s tendency to unconventional sexual orientation is not obtained. Poluchovich’s telephone connections with other children were also analyzed, but information that would be of interest to the investigation was also missing. The Kyiv City Centre for Forensic Psychiatrics conducted a comprehensive psychological and psychiatric analysis of accused Poluchovich, and he has no mental disorders or behaviour. According to teachers, schoolmates who were trained by children, doctors, school psychologists and district health professionals at the victim's residence did not notice any negative changes in children's behavior. Persons who lived in the nearby rooms of the Hotel Adelare have been identified and questioned by the MDC “Artek” during the period of their stay with Poluchovich and his children in June-July 2008, the staff of the selected hotel, as well as almost all the employees of the International Children's Centre “Artec”. However, positive information for the investigation is not available. Residents of house number 22 were questioned on the street of Brezniakowska in Kiev, where the words of Yuri Poluchovich include apartments where sexual acts were committed with him and other children. No positive results. In addition, information was verified regarding the involvement in this house of another number 263, which was allegedly brought to underprivileged children, with sweets, and then taken to apartment 247, where they were subjected to violence. This information was not found, and the tenants of the house and apartments specifically asked them not to worry anymore. In the course of the investigation, it has been established that the testimony of the injured children has a number of contradictions, both with previous statements and with each other. Psychological expertise was also conducted and asked, more faithfully, about its conduct. Because it's kids, maybe it's a fantasy somewhere, somewhere, well, it's just child psychology. However, the legal representative of the children of Poluchović refused to give the children for an experimental examination. And according to the findings of psychological expertise, experts have found that children are conscious of conflicting patterns of behavior, which are signs of coercion, the unnatural nature of the child’s activities in the situation, communication of informed behaviour and the impersonal reproduction of the information they have recorded. An analysis of the chronology of children's testimony and the testimony of their legal representative indicates that at first the individual details of sexual acts with children and their participants are reported by the mother, and after that, the children talk about it. In the process, Poluchović refused to provide her children with eye rates with persons named after them in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as in all the media. In view of the fact that the findings of the court - medical investigation were contrary to other materials of the case, a re-examination was made. However, the legal representative of the victims refused to have children to do it, which is why it has been decided to conduct a re-documental forensic expertise, which is now being carried out. In the course of the investigation, an additional computer-based technical expertise was carried out on the computer block provided by Poluchović, which found that pornographic images were created on it in May-July 2009, when the defendant Poluchovich was not present at home. As a result of the investigation of the case, sufficient evidence of Poluchovich’s guilt and other persons in violent sexual passion with minors who would have had provided sufficient grounds for bringing cases to trial has not yet been obtained. On May 14, the current year, Poluchovich was released from a detention facility in connection with the ongoing appeal court’s detention and the defensively prescribing nondeparture. I mean, he was sitting there for almost nine months, and the court was constantly extending his stay there. Finally, in view of the fact that the criminal proceedings in this category are in force in Ukraine’s legislation, there are restrictions on the publicity of criminal justice, as well as in order to prevent the disclosure of information about the intimate aspects of the life of those who participate in the matter from providing more detailed information, it is not possible. Moreover, the Office of the Attorney-General’s General addressed individuals who had made public, including the heroes of Ukraine, who had published information here, and he kindly postponed the meeting and did not find time to meet with the investigator and head of the General Investigations Department to provide quality information on what had happened. So I'm proposing, and our commission of inquiry is mostly the majority, except for one retainer, and I'm asking you very much that we don't take this issue more politically. Please accept the report of the Interim Investigation Commission to cease the work of the Interim Investigation Commission, and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to complete the case, but to do so requires the goodwill of the mother of the children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u118	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Is there a need? Please sign in for five minutes. Yes, please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u119	Ekaterina Semenovna, please answer one question. We're not talking about who's involved, who's not involved. Did the children get hurt or not? Is it confirmed that children are likely to be completely unharmed or that children are injured? And we're not going to talk about who's involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u120	Quiet, please. Please. They were saying, really, yeah. All previous studies were conducted, not in the course of the investigation, but in the preliminary studies prepared by the mother. And when the investigator asked to repeat it, because there were, in fact, some questions, it was about the age of the children, about what they were growing up, how they were developing, and so on. But in order to make a precise decision, yes, it really was. The mother refused to do so again. For example, we really wanted to do psychological expertise. My mother said I'd be alone. I went to a psychologist, a psychologist wrote that there was violence against children. Well, it can't be like that. We've all been assigned to the Attorney General's office to lead this matter together. And that's why we need to trust. And what I'm saying is that the day starts with the Attorney-General from the fact that the Chief Investigation Authority is informing us how it's progressing.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u121	Please, Mikhail Kosov. Verni Dubov is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u122	Catherine Semenovna, you may remember that not only is the hero of Ukraine known to us, but the then valid president of Ukraine spoke of what you are reporting today as a perfect, proven fact. This was many times, in the media it was called names and so on. Similarly, in the media, some observers and politicians, especially politicians, also called names. And it seemed to society that these were all completely obvious facts. What do we do now? Will these be the people who have embroiled the false in the minds of the people. The answer is yes, but the answer is yes. But it is not only the wrong done to those who have been lied to. It's a pity for society.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u123	And the children were disgraced all over Ukraine and the entire former Soviet Union, and not only. Mikhail Vasilovich, very many figures who were called here in the session hall, have filed a lawsuit regarding the questions you were talking about. As far as the ex-president of Ukraine is concerned. I think the sooner we forget that we had President Yushchenko, the better for us. The more moral it will be for our society!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u124	Please, Ivan Vernidubov. Getting ready is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u125	Please pass the word to Olive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u126	Vladimir Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u127	Katerina Semenovna, first of all, did the committee meet with Mom Poluchovich, who insisted on such a meeting? And the second. I'll express my point of view. The fact that rape takes place. And you don't have to laugh about it. Everyone needs to think that there is a problem in Ukraine today, not just a specific fact, but pedophiles, pornography. Twice, children were raped. For the first time, it's physically bad. And a second investigation. And today we do it in public. This is a fact. And I'd like to give you an answer, have you been seeing your mom, and what did she get?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u128	Thank you. I know you're working with the hero of Ukraine in this regard. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, I'd like to tell you, my mother has never called the commission of inquiry, including in writing, to be heard. My mother only posted letters on the Internet to me that I was so-so-so without knowing me. Including sending him to the head of the Supreme Council. But I'm sorry, because I realize that really, mom might be worried, that emotions are beyond that. What is it that the fact of rape was. I'm asking you very much, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, until the investigation has placed the last dot. Please go to the Attorney General's Office, please, but what the Supreme Council of Ukraine has done is a subject at the state level of discussion. I haven't met her. I answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u129	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, should your factions be initiating your presidents to sign the Law on Special Commissions of Inquiry? Or did you want me to do my own research?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u131	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you whether the committee of those deputies who initiated this scandal, and who, in so doing, I speak of the MPs, including accusing their colleagues of the disadvantages, and thereby humiliated and disgraced the children, humiliated and disgraced the status of the national MP, and thereby helped the very good President to become President, because they were defaming the power that was the opposite force, that is to say, they were imposing the same and casting a shadow on Yulia Timoshenko. Let us call things our names that children have become hostages of political action after the destruction of political opponents and opponents. If you would like to ask them, please tell Catherine Simeonna. And how did they behave? And what about these deputies? Or maybe they'll fold.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u133	Thank you. My dear colleague, if only the National Deputies had been overshadowed - and the entire International Children's Centre "Artek" before the 85th anniversary, the celebration of this anniversary was important, and the people over 80 years of age said they were so different. And what it's politically, well, wanted to use, but stopped, it really is. The wisdom of the deputies of all levels was sufficient. I want to say that we have a written testimony from those figures who accused us. Those Ukrainian national deputies who made it public, we were unable to listen to them. But once again, Yuri Anatoliyovich, Your Honor, let's invite the President of Ukraine to sign the Ukrainian Law on Special Investigation Commissions and Special Investigations, which is why we may be questioning. Everything else that's sometimes done is outside the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u134	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The oil, the replica, the minute. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u135	Dear Catherine Seminovna, I will not comment on what you said about me, because I was questioned in the investigation, and I saw that the investigator himself -- the Attorney General's Office should, and you were, paying attention, is a young investigator, prospective, but never investigated a similar category of cases. Generally, resonating and such activities are given to experienced investigators. And the second. He is young, and he has no children, so he has no experience in talking to these children. And to the end. And why didn't the commission evaluate Lucenko's press conference to inform all those who took part in the rape that there would be a "search" tomorrow. Was it not a signal that “Hide all you can”? Why did the commission fail to make that assessment? And I'm surprised at your conclusion at all that it's not typical of such a level of commission: “At this time, we have reason to talk about what is being raped and who are guilty, there is no”. That's not right. We will vote against such an act.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, please calm down. So, yes, there is a desire to discuss – then please, Let's write down three minutes from the factions. Yes, please, Karmazin, follow him Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, you may remember that since I began to work in the Supreme Council, I have proposed the Law on Investigative Commissions. Since then. He was shot down in one line, second, third, then one president, second, third. That's why I agree with what Catherine Semenovna said, that the first thing we need to do, the whole Supreme Council, in the interests of society, is to get the Law on Commission Investigators to be. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like, in view of this, not to make an enemy of the one appointed to be the head of the commission of inquiry. That's not right. In this case, I've seen that Catherine's Seed soul was investing and trying to do something about it, but society, from every conclusion, has to make a point. The conclusion is: Before the court has spoken his word, do not do anything that has been done. And it went on yesterday. And I'm paying attention to the government of Ukraine, the government representative, and I'm pointing out that yesterday, the deputy head of the Tax Administration was talking about, he called the name of a person who was not guilty of anything. It was about the sister of the national MP of Parabia. You can't talk. There is article 62 of the Constitution, open and read. So I'm asking a government representative to teach the Constitution with them, and then there will be no cases like this, because once again the courts will be sued for honor, dignity and so on. You don't have to do that. Taxpayers are supposed to do their job -- not interview them, they're not TV stars. So as far as the investigation is concerned now: Your Honor, I think we should go where the second point is in the decision to stop the work of the temporary commission. I guess I can't stop her. Why? Because there has to be some kind of control in society. There is a question in society today. There is a question as to whether there is a rightful change in the measure of the precautionary action of Poluchovich or otherwise. Someone should control it. I understand the tiredness of Catherine Samuel of it. But agree with me that there should be social control over this matter. And then, let's just say, when the law goes into effect, that the follow-up action that I said, including questioning those people's deputies, and then making sure that we don't just clap our tongue, if we don't have it, the more they don't use the name, the more they don't reveal the secret adoption. We also needed to answer these questions. We did not answer these questions, that the secret of adoption had been revealed and that it had not been found that with the millions who had offered to close the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u138	Please, Baby. Get ready for Baldwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u139	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The report of the interim commission of inquiry shows that Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens have become a ranger for the introduction of dirty pre-election technologies. One of them is the so-called pedophile business. Let's remember, honourable voters, how it got hot and who initiated it. There were the main initiators and performers. This is then President Yushchenko and the Party of Regions, who joined forces to act against the political opponent of Yulia Timoshenko. Let us recall that there is a Koleschenko, a member of the Party of Regions, Lukyanov, who is not here to talk about our members of the beats, pedophiles, and so forth. Let's think about how President Yushchenko said at every meeting that there were pedophiles in the fight, and that's why we shouldn't vote for them. Let's think about why Omelchenko, the so-called beater, received the Hero of Ukraine for pedophiles. And what do we hear today? There's no pedophiles among us, no evidence of any crime, nothing. It's said that they raped children, but it was you who raped society and raped citizens because they used dirty, sneaky, mean, cynical means of fighting in the political struggle, and the victims of this fight were young children -- a boy and a girl whom you dirtyly used and threw away. The man who did not know what was in prison! The mother who founded her children is a lesson for society on lies, on cynicism, on deception, you can't come to power because then you use that power in the same lying cynical. Yushchenko told us, Janukovic, Timoshenko is the same. Yashchenko and Yanukovic wet Timoshenko on pedophiles, and today he tells us that “what you see Yanukovitch betrays Ukraine”. So you brought Yanukovich to power to surrender this country. Another development is under way today, telling us all the advances that Timoshenko has made in the state budget. This is similar to pedophiles. We've been told that we're involved in the rape of children, today there's nothing to show when we need to -- they're going to tell us that we didn't steal the money. People are good! The voters, the citizens, don't believe any of these lies, the azares, or the Yanks, or these pedophilia-artists -- don't believe it, it's all a lie, it's all a political struggle whose goal is to take power, steal money, use your mind, your ability, hold on to the power of a lie, at the expense of cynicism. It's not a matter for people, it's in our own interests that we're all being used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u140	Please, who's from the Party of Regions? George Victor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u141	Dear colleagues! We have witnessed a very zealous speech by our colleague, Deputy Laskak, who has proved who wants to use the matter, a very shameful matter for political purposes. I don't want to keep commenting and wasting my time, and I'd like to talk specifically and seriously about this. First. I'd like to say that the commission was going to meet two and a half, three times, it didn't invite anyone, and it didn't invite a mother who couldn't, as they say, be an active link here, the commission was going to invite her, not wait for her to come. It's different. Deputies who became suspects were not invited, nor were MPs who showed concern about the matter, or the commission of inquiry, being a retranslator in these impeccable and unobjective findings of the Attorney General’s Office. Our mountain Pinkertons are now guided by questionable methods to prove guilt, or to correct guilt and polygraphs, and to prove active or passive homosexuality, psychophysical research is not confirmed and cannot be used in the investigation. It's different. I'd like to get back to the beginning of this story. From this rostrum was the minister of the interior at the time, and the Attorney-General of Ukraine, who assured us that this matter was not difficult and in two months they would prove to society whether there were grounds for such accusations or not. I'd like to remind everyone that the children were raped and this is confirmed by both the analysis and the prosecutions of the Attorney General's Office, so we know what we're talking about. Next. As far as the report is concerned. I don't support this report, I didn't vote for it, and I call on the deputies who are in this room not to vote for the report, because I don't have my own work, my own thoughts on the commission of inquiry, in my opinion. I would like to say that today the mother of these children is completely disillusioned both in power and in the Attorney General's Office, and she just has no hope of being punished. And when we're told that the main suspect is being released because he was doing well there and he wants to cooperate with the investigation, I'm asking, why did he continue to have temporary detention several times? And why did the prosecution tell us that he was refusing to give up his guilt and refused to show. But who will cooperate?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u142	Thank you. Wheelchair, line, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, since we have a pedophile specialist named Lazko mentioned me, I have to speak. You know, a man who sat twice in a zone that had a sexual unconventional orientation is so dirty that he doesn't even want his colleagues to sit around him. And this person is trying to teach the morals of someone. This person doesn't really belong in Parliament, that's the first. Second. Like the dirt that Lazko is carrying around, it is characterized by the Block of Timoshenko as the participants in the paedophile scandal. It's a social problem. And the sooner we get rid of the poor MPs in the zone who are getting their expertise in the area, the more they can, of course, only have a twisted mentality and a twisted understanding of their place in society. As far as the case is concerned. Of course, the case was deliberately and deliberately broken. I understand how much money is spent on this. However, we are pleased that we understand the signal clearly today - the red flag. Today the villains will be punished.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u144	Adam Ivanovich, please give me a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u145	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u146	Give me the line!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u147	I repeat, if you scream, raise your voice, you get nothing. Be like the people's deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u148	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'm acting like a national deputy, not insulting other national MPs. As for Koleschenka, who tells us that someone in the areas has gained experience. And we don't need to be taught here. Dear Koleschenko! Or an unworthy Koleschenka! And where did Janukovic get his experience, please tell me before he became president? And you're going to teach someone here? Talk about morality! Who were you all over the country for?Oh, my God! You've taken young children, young children, you've got them involved in dirty political affairs, you've used them, you've thrown them out and you're still trampling on them! You're talking about someone's orientation. Look at yourself in the mirror. Listen to your voice. He's an orientation specialist with his five-year-old voice! You're starting to tell someone about your orientation. People are good! Don't turn around, I'm still addressing all the conscious citizens of the country who have seen how the Party of Regions can be trusted. They were talking about the paedophile fighter MPs. Where are these pedophiles?Oh, my God! They did.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u149	Yes, dear fellows! Calm down. Calm down. Calm down. There's no replica. Put your hands down, it won't happen. Please, one. Kolenčenko, I repeat. I'll say it again. If you don't want to hear me, scream. Please, one minute, Samuel, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u150	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I want to remind all the factions of how you approached me when the commission was formed and asked me to lead it, saying that I would act impartially. The other one. Why didn't the commission sit down? I'm on a terrible road trip. I'm in surgery in neurosurgery, and the person who's been on the phone recently calls me and says, "Keep the commission on time." I'm talking. I have a second surgery in neurosurgery. And that went wrong, two and a half times. Third. You're saying there's been a decision. Why, then, when I am. Attorney-General Szcztkin and Dehtharov, who is the head of the Directorate-General, followed by the Office of the Attorney-General, proved this to you at the board meeting, and you didn't say a word, you were just asking questions. Your business, you want a new commission, create.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the report is closed. Let's make up our minds about the draft decision. You have a draft Decision No. 5543 on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of cases involving charges of delinquency of minors. Please vote. [[13:14:28]] For-166 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Clock Timoshenko” – 100, “Our Ukraine” – 20, Communists – 27, “Clock Lithuania” – 19.0. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that when the temporary commission was established on October 20, 2009, the seventh paragraph stated: “Acknowledgment of the suspension of the temporary commission of inquiry three months from the date of the adoption of this decision, I am announcing the suspension of the temporary special commission. Anyone wants to. I don't need a round of applause. There were proposals here, this is the right of the people's deputies, if necessary, they can create and continue the new work of the commission. Please don't use your name because there will be lines. Dear colleagues, I'll calm you down. Please sign up for “Victane”. You can see how quiet it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u152	Yes, dear fellows, point to the board. 13.15, so by 14.15, we'll continue for 15 minutes. A year. Please, John the Rabbit. Behind him is the Naydenov. Ivan Alexanderovich? The fox gives the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u153	I would like to inform you that there is now a strike in Priluki, the city of Priluka, in the Chernigiv region by the employees of the Bilkosin company. “Bilkozine” is the only company in Ukraine that manufactures a sausage shell. A unique enterprise. There were two of them all over the Soviet Union. Today, nearly a thousand people work in this factory. Now these people have quit their jobs and are on strike because of their unpaid wages. Within a few months, from January, hundreds of people working in this company have not received a salary. The owners of this company are Russians, entrepreneurs from Russia. We have recently visited Ukraine with both the President and the Prime Minister of Russia, who are protecting and demanding guarantees of inviolability for Russian investors. And who will protect Ukrainian citizens who work in companies owned by these Russian investors? The business is quite profitable, it is stable, it produces sufficient production volumes. Even so, those who work do not receive a salary that is deprived of the ability to support their families, to support themselves. That is why they announced a strike, an untimely strike for a purpose, and they demand that they pay off their debts. I was in Priluki this morning, at nine o'clock, when this strike started, I supported the people. And I promised them to step out of the Supreme Council's rostrum right now and tell the whole country about the problems they have attached. I am addressing Prime Minister Azarov, President Yanukovic, the Head of Tax Administration. After all, this company has not received a return of several million VAT dollars. And that's what motivates investors that they can't pay their wages. The VAT, yes, must be returned, but the VAT is not paid. The pay is made at the cost of the product. And that's why I'm going to the law enforcement agencies, and I'm going to the audit office, and I'm going to have to do a background check on the business: how much products are made, how much money they've made, and why people don't pay for that money. I hope that today's Ukrainian authorities will make every effort to restore the rights of associates to the Bilkosin plant to the constitutional right to receive wages for work. I hope that today's authorities will take action to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens, and that the employees of the Bilkozin factory will get their wages and what they deserve as soon as possible and will continue to receive them regularly. If not, I will initiate a return to state ownership of the protein, if not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u154	Yes, please, Najdionov and Hrapov pass on the word Samuel, 6 minutes. Get ready for Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, all who listen to us, including my countrymen, Hersonians! Yesterday you all listened with hope and watched the work of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine because it was you who asked about the rescue of the giant domestic industry of the Herson Engineering Plant or, as you know its name, the Herson Combain. Sadly, your expectations ended in nothing. I want to go from this rostrum to the President of Ukraine and remind him that in the midst of the orange revolution, when Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic came to meet the employees of the Hersonian Combin Factory, the owner of this plant gathered all the people who worked for a change and closed them in the largest manufacturing plant. And when people heard Janukovic arrive in the factory area, they screamed and knocked at the door: “Victor Fedorovich, we want to meet you! You are our only and last hope!" And he did, indeed, order – and his assistants opened the door where, as slaves, the owner held the workers. And that's why I want to say that the workers believed that Victor Fedorovich's victory would solve the issue. And I believe that it will be resolved, because we are still faced with the question whether the interest of one person who sells out the factory is first and national, whether it's a multi-thousand collective of the Hersonian Combination Plant, or whether it's a self-producer, or whether we're going to send the money back abroad: "John Dirov," And so on, there to create jobs, pay and fill the state budget? I think the new authorities are just destined to go back to that question. I would like to remind you once again that everything that has been done in the "Herson combines" and in a number of other construction companies is worth a lot of money. It's not even "Criminal." And with that in mind that analysts from the Presidential Administration are following up on these issues, I'm already in the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Victor Fedorovich, please save people who have come to work at the Herson Combin factory at the age of 18 who are still forced to live in a dormitory, sometimes without heat, without light. Save him, these people, please save him from the kind of leader he wants to be good for, but not our factory, Hersonian combines, our people. And I look forward to finding out that one person, if even a party, we don't have the right to risk and neglect life if you want to know the well-being of thousands of people who have to work to get paid at this factory. And secondly, the recent riots, the triumphant gulfs of the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory, and I am, for example, just confused by the fact that the day before the celebration of this date in Herson came to promote the book "SS Galicina," brought along an SS-Galician veteran, some political forces that were burdened by national burdens, brought it. It really is. Imagine, at these moments in the district drama theater, we've gathered participants in the Great Homeland War, participants in the fighting, soldiers' widows, and at this time, the former MP, Kirichenko, has offered excellent conditions to tell us about the heroic path of the SS-Galicina division. Not just my opinion, but the opinion of all normal people: we must not allow fascism in our country. And the first step will be a step, a decisive step, a political step by the President of Ukraine to abandon the order of its predecessor, ex-President Yushenka of Ukraine, and repeal the decrees on the assignment of the names Hero of Ukraine and Sukhevich and Bandery. This will be the best gift for the living that every day, every minute, they risked their lives every second for the great Victory that we have recently celebrated under the red flags.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u156	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Please welcome Yuri Carmazin. Get Terran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u157	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Honorable Ukrainian People! I want to say things that I haven't been able to say today because the Foreign Minister's speech was not discussed today. And I want to bring to the public's attention that since February of this year there is a doctrine, a program called, I will speak Russian, an effective use of foreign policy on a systematic basis for the long-term development of the Russian Federation. This program was signed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Lavrovým on February 10, 2010. I'll read you a few quotes from this program. And then let people think about it, and I'm going to the government today. I want to hear the government's response, I want to hear the President's response, I want to hear the response of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, if we have these other structures. So it's written. “Support the efforts of Russian oil companies seeking to use the Odessa-Broda oil pipeline in a reverse direction, which will restrict Ukraine's access to Caspian oil”. I ask, Your Honor, is that what friends do? Apparently they don't. “See as a strategic objective the participation of Russia in the operation of the gas transport system. To achieve this,” I stress in the word “get” “from the Ukrainian side of the implementation of the agreement in the establishment of an international consortium for the management of the development of the gas transport system” is normal? Or further: “To ensure that Russian enterprises do not fall into strategic industries, in particular advanced industries, aviation, transport and space, energy and other sectors, into technological dependence on Ukrainian counterparties”. Here's the answer that with our businesses and why they're under control. That's why I wanted to ask today, or whether Harkowsky's turbot, which is already being shared in the Moscow capital, is also there. Dear National Deputies! I want to remind you and I want to refer to the presiding officer, and I ask that my appeal to the government officials be considered a parliamentary request, and I demand, as a Ukrainian parliamentarian, a response to these initiatives that are not friendly. I wish we had a friendly relationship. And the last. Today my request has not been read, and I am addressing and saying that Ukraine is a member of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and that is why I am addressing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u158	Yuri Anatoliyovich, give the summary part because the people are waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u159	I'm done. And that's why I asked them to know that we have an illegal, anti-constitutional position as head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Mr. Stelma, whose mandate ended on December 17, 2009, because they should not accept, participate, consider only this person illegal. Thank you for the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u160	Thank you for the update. Victor Terrence, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, will be followed by Jaroslav Kenzior, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u161	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. You know, dear listeners and viewers, there's this Russian saying, "smoking iron while it's hot," and it's like until the President of Ukraine has come to his senses, and until he gives Russia everything that can be delivered -- Moscow is forging iron and leading a violent attack on sovereignty, on Ukraine's economic and political independence everywhere, and in all directions. The great master of the show, Mr. Putin, suddenly wanted to unify Gazprom and Naftogaz, but to unite Ukraine to get 6 percent of that unified concert and Russia to 94. Then it was decided to unite the aviation sectors of Ukraine and Russia, but once again to unite the planes so that they could be assembled in Kiev and Vronez. And immediately, in Moscow, we wanted to unite the nuclear fields of the two countries, but to unite Russia in a way that would reach the Kharkiv "Turboat", which is what Deputy Carmazin was right about. And it comes to absurdity and a loss of common sense, votes are already being voiced to unite Russia and Ukraine’s football champions. So how do you, the respectable donuts who voted for Yanukovic, look forward to it, do you agree that in the football fields of Europe, instead of your "Schattar" speaking, let's say, the Tatar "Rubin" of Kazani? But even businessman Firtash says that merging “Gazprom” with “Naftogaz” would mean absorbing Russia's Ukraine. And even Kuchma warns Yanukovic that he cannot talk to Russia like that, and the opposition is protesting. But a new Russian chauvinist can be said: “He is being shown at the door, and he is going to lie down, forgive me, in a fort.” And now the President of Russia is proposing to Ukraine to make "new proposals", namely to join Ukraine in the pro-Russian security agreement. In other words, come on Ukrainian guys, go to hot spots, protect Russia, 'cause it's big, and it's missing its soldiers somehow.' And I would like to say that Master Medvedev doesn't know that Ukraine has been saying, unfortunately all the time, but it does declare a non-block status, but only in the Constitution of Ukraine for Yanukovich is the same thing as for Putin, the same thing as for Medvedev, which for Yanukovic, which for Putin, their Constitution, is the same. And that's why I want to end by letting God's present authority move faster away from electoral euphoria and realizing that we're not some kind of federal district in Russia, but a great independent European state. And if the authorities don't understand it, and if today's authorities, and especially Yanukovic, are taking "under the goats" to Moscow's integrated appetites, then we all need to help them understand it more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u162	I'd like to invite Jaroslav Kendzior. He will be followed by Andrew School. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u163	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP “For Ukraine!” Today at the beginning of the day, we were listening to information -- answers to questions from the Ukrainian Foreign Minister. To be clear, I had the impression that on the stand was not the sovereign Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, but at least a regular official of the Moscow Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For the thesaurus, the words are said: “Russia is stretching out our hand, and there would be sin, as it were, not to take this hand.” This stretching of Ukraine’s hands will soon cause the legs to stretch out. In view of this, I would like to express the position of our parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” which states that President Yanukovic and his government, and the coalition, are deliberately pursuing the policy of surrendering Ukrainian national interests. This policy has three main components: firstly, Russia's commitment to the key strategic objects in Russia; secondly, it's a war against Ukrainian culture, national memory, Ukrainian language; thirdly, it's a rejection of the Kremlin's independent foreign policy. I want to remind you of such a very eloquent fact. Russia earlier and today insists, and unfortunately, the Ukrainian authorities today agree to use the Odessa-Broda pipeline. Only in the reverse direction do Russian experts openly note Russia’s control of this strategic object of Ukraine and admit that without this control, Russia will lose its pressure on Central and Eastern Europe. As an example, the neighbor of Belarus has already experienced the price of cheap Russian cheese in a mouse trap. And now Russia is being tried in the International Court of Justice, and at the same time, it is looking for the possibility of demonolysis of oil supplies. The President of Belarus, Lukashenko, directly called one of these possibilities for use by appointment of the Odessa-Broda oil pipeline. The interest of the European Union in transporting oil from Odessa is well - known. But even the Venezuelan oil that Belarus is to receive will have to be transported through Ukraine by rail. So the authorities, who in fact voluntarily took over the role of the occupying administration in Ukraine, their own state, call such a policy a friendship with Russia. I am convinced that every day, every week, every month, the Ukrainian society will realize what kind of regime today has been established in Ukraine and as a step by step seems to be a matter of sovereignty, the statehood of Ukraine, its national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u164	I would like to invite Andrew School, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko, to speak with Oleg Nadosh, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u165	Dear TV setters, radio audiences! Dear fellow MPs! Dear Chairman! Of course, a lot has been said to me right now, and I think that after I do, my fellow national deputies will talk about the surrender, the gradual surrender of the sovereignty of Ukraine. And incrementally that doesn't mean that it's sequential. And that means progressively in Ukrainian. Because here progress is constant and inspired. And when you talk about what you're saying, well, you know, there's some interest in Ukraine, Russia's interstate interests, or actually nothing happened. We heard about the same thing during the elections when we warned that in the event that the voices of democracy will be heard, when they will dominate Ukraine called “against all” when it will dominate Ukraine's situation that is all the same. They're not all the same. And in this situation, Janukovic speaks loudly, despite the fact that Viktor Yushchenko actively supported President Janukovic's candidate, did all the work in his place in Western Ukraine in order to eliminate the rating of one candidate and thus increase the percentage of support of another, regardless of that, he did not become Prime Minister of course, although he promised, but despite this, the authorities turned out to be ungrateful and unreasonable today. Because if you take advantage of the moment, you have to use it, not use authority, and people, and trust. I'll go back to the theme of the Black Sea fleet. By this time, we can remember a lot about what happened, what could not have happened, but 27 numbers had been extended, April, the presence of the fleet in the territory of Sevastopol. W. continued what: rents? There are no lease documents, no lease documents, no facts to confirm the existence of leases between Ukraine and Russia on Sevastopol issues. What is occupation? Well, that's what it should have been called: the continuation of the occupation by the Black Sea fleet of the sovereign Ukrainian territory. Well, that's not even what they said. Just now, it was very simple: part of the Ukrainian territory today was recognized as part of the Russian State. And everything, no more and no less. In the territory of the Black Sea fleet, there is no Ukrainian currency, no jurisdiction of Ukrainian laws, no lease documents to confirm the sovereignty of the territory and which is part of an independent Ukrainian state. That's it. That's why. That's why the issue of Sevastopol was so lax, because there was something better to be done here for Ukraine, but the power that defies Ukraine hates the Ukrainian people, the most important thing is to get out of this country as soon as possible and to get out of the capital, unable to provide Ukrainian interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u166	I invite Oleg Nadosha, faction of the Party of the Regions. It will be followed by Eugene Kzarykov, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u167	Nadosha Oleg, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to step back a little bit from the political part of our crash and talk about the subject of every MP in this room -- and this is his work in the regions. Many of us go to their regions each Sunday practically or every Sunday, where we meet directly with people who voted either for his party or for him personally, for the lists he was in. When we meet the people, we get a lot of baggage and knowledge and documents that they give us. They give their pain, they give their grief, they give their problems. How do we react? At best, we can go to some office of an official and ask for this person. In the second case, we write our parliamentary address. But what do we often receive from this reference? We get a receipt at all, where, at best, in the garden of the mouth, and in Kiev, the uncle. And in the worst case, we get, go, boy, don't interfere with the work of our great organ. I would like to address all the deputies in this regard. I sent you a letter asking you to give me such unmotivated answers to my address, to my general address. I want to generalize them. From this, determine where, which ministries and offices don't at all match, where, which ministries and departments at all give false answers and whatnot, which just makes it difficult for a deputy to work. We all realize that the only weight in our work, in fact the only weight, is this MP's appeal or the MP's request that we make through the Supreme Council. Then work with these officials who do not adequately answer our questions. Because for the most part, they don't even realize that they're violating existing legislation. What we don't have anymore. I'll say this is article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of People's Deputies. In particular, part 4 of article 16 of the Law provides that we should receive a reasoned answer. We are also working with article 16 of the Law on the Status of People’s Deputies. Article 351, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Criminal Code provides for responsibility for obstructing the activities of the national MP. And that's exactly the unmotivated answer, and that's the obstacle to the MP's work. I'd be happy to work with these officials. And with your consent, I would have received letters from you. And then I'd make my own conclusions to you. And then the whole Council, we'd all be working on the subject. Either (a) the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry, or otherwise, could affect these officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u168	Eugene Kzarkov, who was given the word of a Communist colleague named Valerius Behbelz, has a six - minute rule. It will be followed by Eugen Goodyak, the faction of the “Timoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u169	Thank you. At first, I wanted to make a statement on the nationalist walls before I spoke on the surrender of national interests. You gave up your national interests in 91 when you traded the most powerful Power with its vast economic, social, industrial, military potential on Bender's legs and on American Snickers. And you know what people say about you today? You're standing in the embroidery today, but with your bare ass. Don't touch the Soviet Power and our economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u170	I'm making a note. One more sentence, I'm going to deprive you of your words. Please don't insult me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u171	Now, basically. Respectable People's Deputies, distinguished voters! My statement by Odessa and the Odessa region was initiated in response to a major environmental threat in southern Ukraine. The fact is that in the Dniestra Delta, a large-scale illegal construction of boilers and sewage systems is being carried out in the Dniestrovské sluice area of the Dniestrov River, which is the only source of drinking water for the city of Odessa and adjacent settlements. Local authorities, local officials, environmental authorities, and local authorities have many requests from residents of Belyaevka and the area. Meanwhile, the structure is expanding and expanding. And despite the fact that the Presidential Decree established the Lower Transnistrian National Natural Park with a large state of inspectors and public park security services, there is no inaction of the administration of the Reserve. We hope that President Yanukovic, as a guarantor of the Ukrainian Constitution, will use the full power entrusted to him by the people and will protect as local residents, Odessites and the unique nature of the Dniester, the Lower East National Park, and will create all conditions for the observance of the law. In the flesh. In the area of 47 kilometres of the Mayaki-Polanka highway in the 100-metre shore zone of Dnietra, construction is under way on the land of the reserve park, with extensive construction. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the lands of the natural reserve fund, namely the “Dniestrovskiyski sluice”, are situated, as I have said, above the “Dniestre” water collection station, the only source of drinking water for the Odessites, has been continuing for the second year. On the second site of illegal construction in the 100-metre coastal zone of the Belgorod-Dniestrov region, the former Ossetian farm, established in 1954 to compensate for damage to ostrich fish, as a result of the closure of the dam of the Dubossar EGC, the work that was banned six months ago is currently under way in the construction of arbitrary dams and docks. There are excavators, bulldozers, fuel tanks on the site. And all of these wastes actually go directly to Dniester, and then, of course, to water treatment facilities for the millionaire city. Construction is under way in the water protection zone of the Dniestr river with a road concrete dam of 260 metres and more than 1 m high without any documentation, which is contrary to Ukraine's Land Code, the PfP Act, and Ukraine's international arrangements. Construction in a coastal 100 - foot [100 m] zone has now virtually deprived the factory’s clean - up facilities. And when I went there, it's not smokers, it's almost like the Odessa officials and the Kiev officials. The transfer of land is considered illegal and, more importantly, the fact that the Presidential Decree of 23 May 2005 “On measures for the further development of the natural orderly case in Ukraine” states that “an additional measure must be taken to prevent the privatization of land with particularly valuable natural complexes and objects”. And here we see the construction right on the shore. In this regard, and in view of the repeated treatment of local authorities: the regional council, the district administration, the prosecutor's office, we are constantly ignored, we appeal to the President of Ukraine as the guarantor of the Constitution with the hope of an objective investigation into the corruption schemes of officials, officials and private companies for the looting of environmental land and the hope of making legitimate decisions. All reported violations not only at the level of officials in the Odessa region but also at the level of the supervisory authorities of the capital. We are also violating the Ramah, Bonn, Bernese, Aarhus Convention for the Protection of the Environment. And we are confident that the materials that we will hand over to the Presidency today, and we ask the faction to consider them a deputy request to the Office of the Prosecutor-General, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as well as to Minnecology. Indeed, today data for a major inspection, and perhaps for the establishment of a special commission, because there was no such crime in the Crimea, were neither in the Odessa region. And I hope that, as soon as possible, we will receive a qualified assessment of these actions, as well as a number of criminal cases for officials of both Odessa and the city of Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u172	I would like to invite Eugene Goodyak, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, to be followed by national deputy Jaroslav Jojik, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u173	Good boy, Timoshenko Street. Dear Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Radio Hearers! I would like to focus on the joint statement made by President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine and by the President of the Russian Federation, Dmitry Medvedev, on the settlement of the Transnistrian problem. As reported in the media on May 17, this year, Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic and Russian President Dmitry Medvedev signed a joint statement on the settlement of the Transnistrian problem. Since the content of this statement was not made available to the people’s deputies for information, negotiations on the settlement of the Transnistrian problem were secretive, this raises natural concerns in the political forces of Ukraine and raises suspicions of a certain agreement between the Presidents on the undesirable steps taken to resolve the Transnistrian problem. However, stated by the chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council in foreign affairs, Oleg Belarus. The statement by the deputy head of the Presidential Administration, Anna Herman, refutes the suspicion of a possible violation of the valid declaration on the need to preserve Moldova's territorial integrity. However, the lack of synchronous work of the Supreme Council Committee in foreign affairs and the President’s administration on foreign policy is not conducive to Ukraine’s international image. Sculpture arrangements can endanger Ukraine’s involvement in a conflict - related geopolitical situation. Sorry to admit it, but in Europe such publications as., the German Wave has already openly written that the fleet agreement proves that Moscow's gas price for Kiev is political, and the President of Russia, Dmitri Medvedev, during his visit to Kiev, has also promised to represent Kiev's interests in the international arena in addition to cheap gas. So the one conclusion is that there's nothing wrong with our kingdom. President Viktor Yanukovic and his team would do well to work openly, publicly, rather than concealing the contents of documents that might be of value to the Ukrainian people. Only the Ukrainian people can make the decisions they make. This is enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine and no one has the right to violate the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u174	Before you know it, I'd like to invite Jaroslav Jojik. It will be followed by Oreste Mutz, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u175	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. On April 27, for the first time in 15 minutes, the country’s state budget was adopted without discussion. Despite a declared 50 - billion - dollar deficit, the real budget deficit is more than 150 billion dollars. Obviously, this deficit needs to be eliminated. Unfortunately, during this time, the country has not seen any fiscal balance from a well - established coalition and a new government. And nothing better than to seriously increase the tax burden on a Ukrainian producer has been found by the authorities. It was yesterday that a sad, tax - related Law was passed at number 6337, which simply contains dragon tax standards. This law has raised excise duties by more than 20 percent on various types of underpriced products, even though more than two times the previous year has already raised excise duties, which have essentially put a branch on the brink of survival. This law is allowed at any time to conduct pre-planned inspections of enterprises, turning tax into a monster that will hold the entire state's throat, despite pre-election promises to reduce the number of checks. There has been an increase in the amount of water that is 20 times higher in Eastern European countries and 5 times the previous level in Ukraine. The law reduces the ability of businesses to pay for foreign exchange loans and allows banks to make timely payments, as only 20 percent of the losses of the past period are allowed to be transferred to new reporting periods. And banks have lost the ability to account for interest in incomes that businesses can't pay for credits after a financial crisis, they actually end up, the cross to restructure loans -- businesses can't pay, and banks can't get money, and all the financial systems are just risking collapse. UNODC argues that the Ukrainian People's Party claims that the government continues to destroy the Ukrainian national producer, and most have joined the process despite the promises of the President and his team to contribute to the development of the entrepreneurial sector. Instead of balancing the budget, cutting costs, reviewing the level of pensions for civil servants.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u176	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u177	Bring gas prices for the population to an economically sound level, bring about a system of government purchases, and reduce the astronomical amounts of budget costs used without any tenders. The Ukrainian People's Party urges the President of Ukraine not to participate in crime against the Ukrainian economy or to sign a law that leads to the total destruction of the Ukrainian national producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u178	I'd like to invite Oreste Mutz, a faction of the Party of the Regions, to be followed by Sergey Gordienko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u179	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Ternopolish region. Deputies! Citizens! We have no real position in Galicina, and especially in Ternopolska, we do not have a real position toward today’s authorities. All political forces, including those representing the former prime minister, openly demonstrate the desire to work constructively with the authorities in the country as one that can really solve the problem of the region, people. To illustrate, the whole country has heard of the issue of Ternopil's garbage, the former authorities have never been able to address this issue in a critical way, and so today's so-called opponents are turning to today's authorities for help. So recently, a local representative of the former prime minister flew to the government and representatives of one of the opposition forces. But the address asked that the former prime minister’s flight of power be disregarded. As we can see, the pseudo opposition, even when it comes to asking for help, still cannot cope. No wonder the problem with the Ternopil garbage has remained unresolved for so long under the former authorities. There is no doubt that today’s authorities will respond as best they can. Ternopils themselves, who are not likely to return to the local boards of bad owners, will answer. The new authority does what the previous failed, unifying all political forces to work, for the benefit of the people. And so it will continue, even if it does not please a few politicians who today cannot share the right to be the main opposition to the country. And their talkers in Parliament. In recent times opposition claims about censorship have been increased. As a member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, I will note that in the local media, such as the Ternopolska family, there are many materials in which journalists give a varied analytical presentation of their perception of central authority and of the newly appointed district. There is freedom of speech in the Ternopil press, perhaps this would not have been the case if censorship was available in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! Let me welcome you to the grand festival of the Holy Trinity! May this day, besides fresh greens, your homes also beautify harmony, mutual respect! May the work of each of us bring prosperity to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u180	I would like to invite Sergei Gordijenko, a faction of Communists, to be followed by Vladimir Bondarenko, who was given the word Vitaly Danilov, faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u181	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Honorable chairman, respected colleagues, respected veterans and social workers! Many years ago, at the expense of local budgets, the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities, the Fund for Sponsorship and Charity in Ukraine, a large part of which is located in rural areas. Territorial centres are the only facilities that provide adequate services to pensioners, disabled persons, single, incapacitated and other socially unprotected citizens, including in the remotest villages. Their work is aimed at supporting the vitality and social activity of disabled citizens, disabled persons, and veterans. All customer service was free. But the government of Yulia Timoshenko on December 29, last year, adopted the Cabinet of Ministers' decree on certain issues relating to the activities of the territorial social services centres, the provision of social services, which was approved by the list of social services and their conditions. [[by number 1417]] Under this decree, free self - care for those unable to handle themselves and need foreign assistance and family members has become paid. That's how you take care of people. Will such services be able to be paid by disabled people and lonely, disabled people when most of them live outside the poverty line? Of course not. What will this lead to? To a significant reduction in the number of people who will be able to obtain essential services, to end the functioning of socio-medical services and socio-economic adaptation, social tensions and the actual destruction of its well-established system of work with the most disadvantaged categories of the population. Against the backdrop of intense slogans for the protection of the disabled and the lonely, incompetent government of Yulia, Timoshenko actually attacked their rights and seized the latter. The demand of the pensioners and the disabled and the lonely, incapacitated people of Ukraine to the present government, supported by the communists alone, to abolish this dragon decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, headed by Julia Timoshenko. Because it significantly makes life worse for the most vulnerable category of people in Ukraine. You can't fill a budget on a mountain. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the need to repeal the said decree and protect the rights of disabled and disabled citizens of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u182	I ask the apparatus to prepare for such an appeal by the national deputy to Prime Minister Azarov. I invite Vladimir Bondarenko, followed by Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u183	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Order”. Today’s review of the Special Commission’s report on the so - called paedophiles’ affairs showed that it was an all - Ukrainian coordinated provocation. This raises a question for me. Will former Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko be held accountable in a cabinet that has been repeatedly sounded and then released to the media the direct charges of deputies in this disgraceful phenomenon. As the commission showed today, this was not the case. It was invented and used in political technology. The second question I ask. Will our judgment be punished by Mr. Kolesnick, who in this room has repeatedly violated this question, watering again the filth of innocent people? I have a question. For which he was named “Heroy of Ukraine” Gregory Omelchenko, who directly disgusted these people in his speeches and in his speeches. For which he received the “Hero of Ukraine” which he committed and for which Yushchenko gave him the hero. For what merit it is not clear. Where else was another case of the trusted person Janukovich, the real pedophile of the Mikhail’s Rector of the Kyiv Institute of Water Management, who was arrested and not mentioned today. I started to suspect that where I needed it to be covered up, and where it was designed, it was necessary for them to be punished by those who did it today. I'd like to take another look at a nice bride that's being blown apart by a man with clear signs of an old marasm, the head of our unique institution, which is called the House of Accounts, which now publishes information about the alleged crimes of Julia Timoshenko. This man should be responsible for his crimes where the trade and fishing fleet of Odessa under his leadership, the so-called “Blazko” matter, went. But today he is a deep - seated pensioner. He's being covered up in this room, in my opinion, this is done above all by the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, who is convenient to file papers here on the use of budgetary resources without having the MPs at least one eye look at them at any time. I think it's time to end things like this. The Supreme Council today is in a situation where Azarov shares something with public money. Simonenko's looking at something, but he's not telling anyone what he saw, and he's going on. He says that there was a misappropriation of funds at Julius Tymoshenko. But then all the government's proposals were blocked, and there was the flu that raised raves here, and the flood was huge, and the money had to be spent on. It's not that someone stole anything, but it's that without the special papers to be approved here, Julia Timoshenko made the decision. She made a decision as a real leader of the state, who had all these problems on her shoulders, because Yushchenko was intrigued there, Yanukovich was fighting the government, and she was working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u184	I invite Andrija Pavlovski, followed by Mikhailo Wolintz, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u185	Respectable compatriots! Andrew Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. We have all witnessed in the past, and this week, how the cynically ruling coalition of Yanukovic has rejected social laws one by one, even those in which the promises of President Yanukovic have been fulfilled. Thus, for the first time in 20 years, a party of regions had a cynically failed social protection decree of 3 million Chernobylites. Before that, the government coalition did not vote in favour of granting citizens working abroad the right to receive pensions. A party of regions did not support the law on the right of multi-child families to mortgage loans for housing purchases. A law had been broken, which provided that in the event of bankruptcy, the company should first pay off its earnings. The Party of the Regions has disgracefully rejected the changes to the Nazi Persecution Victims Act, which envisaged an increase in pensions for prisoners underage in the fascist concentration camps, following a pompous celebration on 9 May. The authorities spent more than 70 million dollars of budget money on pompous events and parades. At that time, the material situation of war veterans, those who really fought, deteriorated. Thus, according to Azarov’s decree 299, five times the number of people with disabilities of war, from 5,180 to a thousand bracelets, has been reduced by five times. The State budget for 2010 reduced by 19 million the amount that went to purchase travel to a health centre for war veterans and disabled persons. Another gift given to war veterans by 9 May from the current Januković authority was a reduction of 6 million dollars to buy cars, including for war disabled persons. It turns out that when the Party of the Regions came to power with its leader Yanukovic, they promised us a heavenly manna, a paradise on earth, a paradise on earth after the elections. And they have come to power, and they do not want to keep their promises. It turns out that they have deceived their constituents and, above all, the most socially vulnerable. Therefore, I invite people to demand from Yanukovic, from the new authority what belongs to them by law. Require an increase in pensions and salaries. It's your right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u186	I'd like to invite Michael Wolinz, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. It will be followed by Julia Kovalevska, a faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u187	Dear TV setters, reverent radio audiences! A month ago, the government of Azarov adopted Decree No. 330 concerning the introduction of the hourly wage, and it makes up 5 bracelets of 29 copies. This is done for employers and for those who work part - time or part - time or part - time or part - time jobs. Not hundreds of companies, but thousands of companies. And imagine, if the company worked for four days, people's salary would be 160 dollars per month. So 20 dollars. How can a family live on 20 dollars? And if it's a single and urban enterprise, it's budgeting. What then to do to all the cities, to all the inhabitants when such a situation arises? So it's done to avoid paying people a minimum wage of 869 dollars, and in this case it's going to pay 150 or 200 dollars or 300 dollars. I'd like to draw your attention and make a warning about the following. Deputy Vasil Harrah, who is the head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, is preparing for the second reading in Parliament of a new draft of the Labour Code, which is designed to introduce a 48-hour working week for workers. It is also envisaged that this work week may increase significantly more than 48 hours, if the employee is in a mode of waiting for the main job, or in that case, the article says if the employee is able to rest while doing his job during the change. This is Project No. 143. Now I would like to ask the next question that the employer will have the right to issue internal normative acts and thus regulate the socio-working relationship at the company. That is, he will not be guided by existing legislation, but will issue his orders, his decrees, which will stifle the rights of workers, and his orders will be considered in court as valid legislative documents. Now here's the next one. I would like to point out that there is now no obligation to conclude collective agreements, no legal and criminal responsibility for failure to implement collective agreements. At the same time, there are massive violations of the rights of our thunderstorms in the workplace. And that's why Ukraine is one of the countries where the most citizens in Europe are referred to the European Court of Justice for protection. I would like to remind our citizens that Ukraine has not acceded to the Treaty of the European Court of Justice, does not pay, and our citizens' appeal is therefore considered at the very last opportunity. Even so, people do not feel protected in their own country, forced to turn to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u188	Finish up, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u189	People have to go to international institutions. The same head of the Federation of Trade Unions, Vasil Hara, who is the author of such a bill, has a direct bearing on the leadership of the professionally closed association Ukrprofession, which receives 1 billion dollars from the Social Insurance Fund, which is not going to pay hospital payments to the citizens -- and we have a lot of debt on hospital payments -- not going to rehabilitate citizens, but rather to support this corrupt union, and therefore create an unmarketable, unfair relationship in this market of citizen recovery, but a corrupt scheme is being created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u190	I invite Julia Kovalevsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. It will be followed by Yuri Gnatkevitch, faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u191	Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected TV and radio audiences! During the presidential elections, the Ukrainian people gave a clear signal of the need for radical changes in the situation in the country, particularly in its economy. The new power quickly and professionally, within a short period of time, was able to reverse the economic situation for the better: to stop Ukraine from rapidly rolling into the midst of the economic crisis. The results are already visible: recovery has begun in all spheres of economic life. This is demonstrated by the macroeconomic indicators and assessments of independent experts. For example, in the first quarter, Ukraine's domestic gross product increased by 4.8 per cent, while in 2009 it fell by 15 per cent and industrial production increased by 12.6 per cent. This was achieved by a record increase of 13.8 per cent in March and 17.4 in April. I would like to emphasize that domestic gross product has increased, not through inflation, but through a real recovery of the economy. The decline in gas prices achieved by the current authorities has stimulated the growth of industrial production. Increased social benefits have boosted business activity, and consumer markets have revived. Although retail trade continues to decline compared to the same period of the previous year, the gap will soon be eliminated, as in the first quarter of the last year the decline in trade with the Government of Timoshenko was almost 20 per cent, and this year the decline fell to 2.7 per cent. Soon we will see growth in this sector too. The authorities made the right decisions, and they made it quickly. Business recovery has also affected the accession to Gosbudget. Tax payments increased by 7 per cent in the first quarter. The authorities create favourable conditions for economic growth, and the increase in tax revenues is only a consequence of this. We have had the fruits of an effective regulatory policy. Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on taxation, according to which the State budget of Ukraine will receive an additional 10 billion dollars of fines from the increase in excise duties this year. Different treatments can be given to the Act on Increases in Excise. They are not accidentally classified as unpopular measures, but opponents of reforms deliberately confuse the cause with consequence, speaking of increasing tax pressure on business, is an unconscionable lie. This decision will not have particularly negative consequences. The moral aspect of the problem also remains an important aspect. Increases in excise duties occur mainly in goods that threaten the health of the Ukrainian people, particularly the young generation, alcohol and tobacco products. The new team, which had come into power for some reason, probably at the turn of the opposition, had normalized the rate of the bracelet, had withdrawn the economy from the crisis, had fulfilled social commitments to increase pensions and payments, had achieved a third reduction in gas prices, had developed a new programme of cooperation with IMF, had been able to adopt the 2010 budget. This is the first time in April 2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u192	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u193	deflation was noted, with inflation at 4.4 per cent since the beginning of the year. Positive examples of the work of the current authorities can be continued and listed for a long time. In concluding my statement, I would like to address my fellow parliamentarians: Ukraine alone may be enough to compete in those who love their country and their people more, and together with consolidated efforts and constructive work to prove their love and devotion to her. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u194	I'd like to invite Yuri Gnatkiewicz. The faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u195	Yuri Gnatkevitch, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear compatriots, May 15, 20 years later, the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR began its work. The Supreme Council, which declared Ukraine's independence. Here the deputy Communist Kralkov accused the nationalists of destroying the Soviet Union. So I would like to remind him that it was the Russian Federation that declared its independence first. And in this room with us nationalists, there were 239 Communists who almost all declared Ukraine independent. I want to welcome the Ukrainian people to Hero Day, which is celebrated in the Ukrainian Diaspora and Ukrainian National Patriots here in Ukraine on May 23rd. This is due to the fact that it was May 23rd that the Ukrainian Nationalists ’ Organization, Eugene Konovalec, was killed by Bolshevik Agent Sudoplatin. It's a bad May. Simon Pettlar was also killed in May, May 25. On May 3, in mysterious circumstances, Mikol Michnowski died here in Kiev, the theory of Ukrainian nationalism. This is the first to say: Ukraine for the Ukrainians. That is, Ukrainians must have their own state. Every year I go to my home village on May 9. I was with my assistant, George Lukanchuk. We gathered in two villages -- my home village and in a neighboring village -- all those who survived the warlords, their widows, their relatives. They've had a big acceptance. And we mentioned both those who died on the front and the soldiers of the Ukrainian rebel army who died. Those who were murdered by Communists were mentioned as those who were killed by Germans and Poles. On the initiative of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”, the Ukrainian People's Party, we visited all the brotherly UPA soldiers' graves in our area. 25 are buried in the village of Krupec, 25 are in Bezodna, 15 are in Krupca, 5 are in Baratina, in my village. Six people buried. And sometimes I ask myself, we put flowers, we build monuments, I build a beautiful monument in my village to UPA soldiers, to fighters for Ukraine itself, and sometimes I ask why there, in Western Ukraine, people of gangsters, UPA soldiers put monuments, and where they never used to fight them, they hate them so much, even though there were no victims, let's say in Lugansk. Who were the Bender boys? These were simple boys from the village, for which they gave their lives so easily — whether it was Ukrainian fat or sausage or wheat bread? They gave their lives to young, healthy people for Ukraine's will, for their national dignity, for their Ukrainian language. Indeed, the Ukrainian Insurgency Army -- it was a liberation army, it was created not to fight the Soviet Union, it was created.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u196	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u197	One minute. Even in the days of Poland, when the Germans destroyed the Ukrainians, I must deny to the communists that the bandits are accommodating German, my father, and I have documents and not one document, was shot by German invaders, among other things, on May 13th, with a huge group of people trying to set up an underground radio station of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army and that I created a great memorial as something that fell on the fronts and those that fell in hiding in the woods in the fight against the NKVDist, I believe that I did a good job and I call for it to be done in all of us in Western Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-21-m0.u198	Dear colleagues! The hour for different ends. Let me remind you that next week the national MPs are working with the electorate. So the next plenary session will take place on Tuesday, June 1, at 10 a.m., and as usual on Monday, May 31, the Conciliation Council will meet. On the other hand, I would like to say that on May 22 in Ukraine there will be an important event of 149 years since Taras Shevchenk’s burial, I think it would be helpful to read the writings of our brilliant poet and public figure today. 23 Ukraine celebrates the Trinity as a celebration of the unification of Ukrainians, a festival of good. So I would like to welcome you to this next holiday and announce that the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
