ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:19]] There were 415 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Grinev Igor Alexiyovich, let us welcome him and wish him success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on 9 March. 16 issues of the agenda were discussed, 1 law was passed as a result of their consideration, 2 bills were adopted as a basis, 12 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes away from speaking to the national deputies with proposals, announcements, reports. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Alexander Popov, faction of the Party of Regions. Get ready for Michael Schershung.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u2	Honourable Presidency, distinguished colleagues! The following week, workers in housing and utilities and services celebrate their professional holiday. Regrettably, the results with which they approach this professional holiday make them think not only about the employees of the JCC, but also about the complexity of the industry. I would like to recall that, to date, the debt of enterprises in the area of LHC, i.e. creditors' debt, has exceeded the record amount of 11 billion bracelets. As a result, business losses amounted to about 2 billion at the end of last year. The salary arrears so far exceed 120 million bracelets. A particularly complex situation, unfortunately, has arisen in the urban transport subsector, where some 40 million are owed wages, precisely because last year the Government, as in this case, did not fully finance the necessary funds to compensate for the transport of concessional categories. Today, we have three to four months'wages in the enterprises of this subsector. Trade unions have announced their willingness to intervene if these problems are not resolved in the near future. It is also a serious sign that, to date, debts for natural gas consumed amounted to about 7 billion bracelets. Of these, more than 3 billion are already in the current year 2010. In order to address these serious problems, the Government needs to prepare and submit a budget for 2010 at least in the near future. It is he who, in dealing with the problems related to the JCC area, can, to some extent, mitigate the situation that has arisen in this serious sector. Today, however, I would also like to draw your attention to the need to address energy-saving projects, to finance energy-saving projects that will help to curb the rise in housing and utility prices. Greenhouse emissions quotas were sold by the Government last year under the Kyoto Protocol. The Cabinet of Ministers accounted for more than 200 million euro of earmarked money that could be used to implement such projects. To date, none of these projects have been implemented, and the money has gone away. I would like to ask the representatives of the review bodies to verify the direction in which they have been spent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u4	More than 3 billion funds that are so necessary today to address housing and utility problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u5	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian Block faction. Peter Cibenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u6	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I was approached by the mother of a child with acute leukosis living in the town of Brezna Vinicka in a radioactively polluted area. You can understand the cries of the mother’s soul, where the child dies, and she cannot help her because there is no money for high - value treatment. Today, the state has virtually no money available for this purpose. Seven times less funding for a comprehensive health care programme and cancer treatment and high-cost medical technology. At the same time, scientific research has shown that in recent years more than 20 percent of children with birth defects have been born in radioactively polluted areas of Ukraine. At the same time, a child’s disability associated with blood circulation disorders, malignant neoplasms, and nervous system disorders is increasing. In most cases, parents, because of their ignorance and despair, lack of action by the authorities, cannot fully treat their children and collect the necessary documents on disability. It is therefore necessary to force the authorities to pay attention to these children, to create social services with specialists who care for these categories of children. I would like to point out that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child recognizes the right of a disabled child to live a full life in conditions that guarantee his or her dignity, promote confidence in his or her rights and have the right to special care, access to education, restoration of health, social and cultural life. My association with the parents of children living in radioactive areas shows how many children today need treatment. Everyone feels the pain, the despair of those parents. And as it is said, the world is not without good people. From time to time, they find, find, provide such assistance. But this is not enough. So I want these people to hear from this parliamentary rostrum the voice of the disbelieving parents, on whom it is up to them to resolve these issues. Part of the answer to these painful questions may be the adoption of the National Social Insurance Act, three of which are in the Supreme Council. But it is not known when they will be accepted, and time does not wait. Today, there are many distinct, unrelated programs. But all of this remains on paper, not backed up by funding. They need to give their lives. Therefore, the future government needs to study, generalize all existing programmes, develop and approve a single state-wide programme for the social and health protection of children with disabilities, which would clearly define concrete measures, executioners and appropriate allocations for its implementation. But above all, it is necessary for officials to exercise the will to deal with the issue and compassion of these children. I'm sure that's the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u7	Finish up, please. All of it. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Next thing you know, it's gonna be jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u8	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to make a call to the Ukrainian veterans' organization to the President of Ukraine. The great Victoria Fedorovich, an important problem in the Jubilee year, is the need to immediately stop the heroization in Ukraine of the Fascist manuals of UN-UPA and to restore the truth of the Great War of 1941-1945 in the country's historical science, in programs and teaching aids of the truth of the Great War of 1941-1945. With this requirement, the gathering and captivity of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization in recent years have repeatedly appealed to the political leadership of Ukraine, and we have not even received an answer. But it's about issues that don't just concern veteran organizations and the Victory Jubilee, it's about the problem of the state, more than that, of global political, social and moral significance. U.S. President Yuschenk's instructions include Fascist manuals: Shuhevich, Bandera, UN and UPA. Such acts are not only a cynical abuse of the feat of the veterans of the Great Home War, which saved the world's civilization, these decrees essentially approve of treacherous politics and the bloody terrorist activity of the UN collaborators. This paves the way for neo-fascism in Ukraine, endangers the upbringing and outlook of young people, increases the divisions and social tensions of our society and European co-authorism. It is no coincidence that the resolution of the European Parliament of 25 February this year, paragraph 20 condemns these orders of the Court of Justice and recommends that they be reviewed, especially since, in the plan of the international heroisation of the UN, which worked with the Nazi Germany, which is recognised by the European Parliament, means that the decisions of the International Nuremberg Tribunal, on the basis of which the UN Charter establishes a modern world system and the modern borders of Ukraine, are effectively refused. In this regard, Yushchenka’s decrees threaten the territorial integrity of Ukraine, for they continue, as is the case with little space, to encroach on certain neighbouring regimes in certain regions of Ukraine. So we ask you, Your Honor Victor Fedorovich, to accept from this most important problem all necessary measures to get Yashchenk's shameful decrees canceled as soon as possible. It is also important to oblige the Ministry of Education and Science to instruct educational institutions to stop in the training process the heroization of the UN and its military formations and leaders and to start developing programs and textbooks for schools and institutions in accordance with the truth of history and the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great War of 1941-1945. It is also necessary to introduce responsibility for violations of existing legislation in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u9	National MP Jodzik instead of Yuri Kostenko, faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Get ready for Thurman.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u10	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u11	One moment, my dear fellow! Is Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko there? None. Well, they deny it! Well, please, settle your positions there. Well, I'm not. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! March 5 was 60 years old from the day of the death of the chief commander of the UPA, Roman Suhevich. The Ukrainian rebel army was a national army that protected its families on earth, its homes from Hitler’s invaders, and its Stalinic invaders, and has never committed aggression against foreign lands. For many decades, the Soviet regime has silenced the truth about the national liberation movement, but today archival documents have become available, eyewitnesses who have denied the many-year lie of totalitarian regimes regarding UN-OPA soldiers. Recently, the Pecher District Court, in its decision 232-2010 of 14 January 2010, obliged Peter Simonenko to correct the information he had circulated about Roman Shuhevich at the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine after the court’s decision had become effective. On May 30, 2007, Peter Simonenko told an outright lie about the alleged receiving of Roman Shuhevich’s prize at Hitler’s hands. In this way, in a judicial way, another step has been taken to correct the lie about national-liberal actors. At the same time, the Ukrainian People's Party notes the continuation of the distortion of ideas about the activities of the UN-UPA among the Ukrainian population, the spread of outright lies by the Fifth Column of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular representatives of the Communist Party of Ukraine. In the light of the foregoing, the Ukrainian People's Party demands that the judgement be executed immediately and that Peter Simonenko not give the floor to the Supreme Council of Ukraine until he refutes the lie about the commander of the UPA, Roman Shuhevich, and has issued a corresponding objection on the official page of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the official printed body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the newspaper Volos Ukraine. Stop the spread of lies about the activities of the Ukrainian Nationalists and the Ukrainian rebel army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u13	Thurmanov National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please. Get ready for Argentinus. Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, recently, and yesterday in this sessional hall, we have heard political storytellers today telling us that a coalition is being illegally formed. There were other answers in the same room yesterday, the same coalition that had worked before. In what format it worked, how many deputies were there, and you know, the second formation of this coalition, so called 212 deputies. But today only talks are about breaking the laws, the constitutional coup. I would like to remind these storytellers of the fact that in five years you have made so many constitutional coups that your fingers are not enough to bend them. In 2007, the Government of Yanukovic, handing over the power of Timoshenko, left 24 billion gravel in its accounts. What's the Prime Minister doing? Since the New Year, he has served thousands of dollars, which means that he pays the unpaid money. We left the coal industry on the rise. Where did we bring her today? It is in a catastrophic state today. Today, we hear the Secretary of the Coal Industry's parade reports that everything in the coal industry is beautiful, everything is fine, all issues are resolved. I can only tell you one thing: in these two years, there has been virtually no disposal of equipment for development, capital construction. 2009 was the year of the coal industry test. Given that the election campaign was held, the miners were paid only their wages, without any charge. We owe the Pension Fund 2.5 billion today. The shaft that worked in the mine came to form a pension, and he didn't get a pension because the company didn't pay for it. We've made social insurance funds bankrupt. And such a fund, as in accidents, where 80 per cent of miners live, is not paid for today's third month. We're not in power today, we've stopped the new building today, the mine of the tenth Novovolynska, taking out all the people from there, sending out free vacations. This Government has done everything today to put the industry on the brink of disaster. There are 700,000 tons of coal in storage today. There has never been such a supply of coal in the history of an independent Ukraine. And we're talking today about some progress in the coal industry. What can we talk about? Today, in the last two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u16	Many businesses have lost power today. And the challenge today is with us, and I feel that many people's deputies already understand that a coalition needs to be created, a government needs to be created.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u17	Thank you. Stanislav Arzhewitten refers to Vijacheslav Kirilenko, the faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Prepare Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u18	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! On March 5, this year, a first visit was made by the new President of Ukraine to the capital of the Russian Federation of Moscow. Of course, we cannot say about any of the benefits of this visit. On the contrary, there are things that give us open warning. First of all, the transfer to the administration of the Ukrainian gas transport system continues, which is in direct contravention of the Ukrainian legislation adopted in this room. Second, there are no misunderstandings and no need for reverends to lower the status of the Ukrainian language, and these are also held in the capital of the neighbouring state. Janukovic's statement that Ukrainian language as the only one will have the state status that was made yesterday in Cane just confirms the constitutional standard. And I don't think this statement should make people who care about patriotic values relax. Since, according to our understanding and the pre-election program, the Party of Regions will follow the path of changing language legislation without touching the Constitution, we will be offered a slippery linguistic coup when the second language is introduced in the courts, on television, in other public institutions and institutions, and this will result in an open public defeat of the Ukrainian language. Therefore, the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” warns against such actions and reiterates, including for President Yanukovic, that language status is only regulated by the Constitution of Ukraine and its 10 articles. Any reversions to the Russian language, with a decrease in Ukrainian status as a national non-admissible. We are also surprised by the style of the discussion of Ukrainian humanitarian problems in Moscow. See: The gas transport system is promised. First. Secondly, it is promised to lower the status of the Ukrainian language. Thirdly, it is promised to cancel the name Hero of Ukraine for Stephen Bandera. And in return, the Russian President offered some two Ukrainian channels to some Russian digital television systems. I don't think the concessions are equal at all, and the position is not governmental. That is why we urge President Yanukovic not to do so, because they are directly contrary to the Constitution and legislation. We stress that the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” has stood and will stand in defense of national values and clearly protest against any steps taken by the newly elected authorities that conflict with Ukrainian values and Ukrainian national interests. Clearly, this requires unity and guarding Ukrainian values. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u19	Thank you. Mikola Kravchenko, a faction of Communists, will be followed by Leonid Grac.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u20	Nikolai Kravchenko, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! I inform you that I have begun to register the Supreme Council order to establish a Special Investigation Commission to investigate the violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine by Yushchenko and his nationalistic environment aimed at the division of Ukraine and the falsification of society. Yushchenko must answer for putting nationalism on hold for five years, creating a strong system to break relations with Russia. He must be responsible for the illicit arms trade, the participation of our military forces in hostilities in Georgia, the planting of Holodomor, the illegal dissolution of parliament, the illegal reward of Shuhevic, Bandera and many others. In addition to Yushchenko, public servants from the region to the central authorities must respond. For example, who forced Ádrejchenko to falsify and display photos on the stands, American photographs, giving up for ours. Who made him hand over the diplomas to the U.S. Academy? Who's the one that got the D.C.U.S. to open the archives? Who forced Pukshina to accompany illegal drafts of the Order of the dissolution of Parliament? And a lot of other things. Who forced the governors, who, without the decisions of the relevant councils, set up monuments for the victims of the Holodomor for budget money? There's been a coup d'état. And if we do not investigate all these facts, Ukraine will continue to be a toy in the hands of people who do not want the good of that country and that people. As long as we do not investigate these facts, the President-in-Office will continue to speak on television screens, to discuss how he will reform and defend his political power, from which the fragments remain. I must say, to the factions, I will send letters to the factions asking the factions to consider the issue and to grant candidates to a special commission to investigate crimes against their own people, former President Yushchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u21	Leonid Ivanovich Graz, Communist faction. Sergey Sobolev will be next, and Soroczynska-Kyrilenko will give him the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u22	Dear voters, respectable colleagues, I believe that there is no electorate, no MP, and no journalist present in this room who can challenge the truth that life and health are the key to each of us. I started to talk about it to draw attention to a very sinister topic, because as long as the state was at variance, its entire system, of course, couldn't stay away from aviation. Yesterday's incident at Simferopol Airport, when the crew of Donbassaero, who had arrived earlier, was scheduled to leave Simferopol in Borispol instead of 7 minutes. 30 minutes, he never left in the course of the last day. I did not fly away for one reason because all of the crew members, as the people say, were drunk. Moreover, when, including with the participation of the Deputy Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Tatiana, the Sovereign of Korniaková began to conduct an investigation as passengers, medical statements were given three to 3.5 miles per hour per day after a night’s rest. What's he talking about? This not only indicates that 86 passengers and dozens of them were transit passengers — those who were to continue to fly New York, Moscow, London, Bonn, Tel Aviv — were economically cost-effective. But most importantly, when the trial began and we looked at the state of the control system, including the medical examination, it became clear that it could be absolutely argued that the whole system was affected, that in fact we do not know what the pilot or flight attendant is in when each of us gets on the plane. Therefore, despite Korniaková's initiative as Deputy Prosecutor-General in criminal matters, I believe that the bill that was considered in this room yesterday and rejected administrative responsibility should be entrusted to a committee of profile and that it should be redrafted on this topic of criminal responsibility. And the second. Yesterday, I addressed Vladimir Mihajlovich with a parliamentary request to consider the bill that was in my own possession. Basic languages. The bill that we've been drafting together with the late Kushnarev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u23	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u24	I would ask that, in response to all the statements made, those who have introduced this basic bill and protect the Russian language of those who attack it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u26	And the last. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u27	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? You'll see in time. Sergey Sobolev, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u28	Dear voters! Dear radio listeners! I would like to refer to you at the time when the country celebrated the 196th anniversary of Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenka's birth in a multi-millionth century near Shevchenk's monument, near the holy place in Kiev where they always swore to serve Ukraine, with one key question. At a time when the Constitution, the Basic Law of the State and the creation of an illegal way and the formation of all the organs of power in Parliament during the 19th year of independence, was being violated, when the electorate, who voted in favour of the relevant political powers, was in fact by amending illegal, non-constitutional amendments to the Ukrainian Rules, was deprived of the right to form power and could now be formed by defectors and traitors. At that time, a multi - thousand - year rally near the monument of Shevchenk declared the need to create a united democratic opposition and to elect the leader of this united democratic opposition to Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. It is this event that should put an end to the violation of the Constitution, disregarding the laws of Ukraine. The very united democratic opposition has set a clear course for the continuation of the nation’s movement to European values, the movement of the state to defend the sovereignty of Ukrainian language and culture. It is this multi-thousand-thousand night that has determined how we should develop, even in the most difficult conditions of ignoring democracy and the Constitution, the Ukrainian society, and how we should be key to the development of our state. At a time when Parliament has taken an anti-State, anti-constitutional decision and President Yanukovic will first be put to the test for support and guarantor of the Constitution, we have in fact determined and I think that this event gives every reason today to say: all illegal, anti-constitutional acts in Parliament and beyond will be opposed by the united democratic opposition led by its leader, Yulia Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, Irina Gorin has the right to speak, and a colleague of Glazunov, the faction of the Party of the Regions, gives her the right to speak. This is the last performance today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u30	During the five-year stay of the orange team, business became convinced and tired of the power of finality. Show forums, business and government partners, except for the loud pyar action, did not end at all. In 2008-2009, however, the Government of Timoshenko entered into a partnership before the problem was resolved worse than the problem itself. President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic and the new team will have to restore the trust of entrepreneurs and businesses in power. The proposed strategic and tactical paths that will show our intentions to business and business. Here are some of them. Of course, we must do what is old as peace, but relevant now, especially in times of crisis. The clerk needs to get as far away from the entrepreneur as possible. First. We will adopt laws that will give tax breaks to private entrepreneurs who work on their own. Second. A law will be adopted to remove the employee from the business, and not more than once every two years, the supervisory authorities will be able to interfere with the business activities of enterprises and entrepreneurs. The harmful practice of paying taxes in advance will end. The VAT will be returned automatically from the budget. Second. A new Tax and Budget Code is certainly necessary. A simplified tax system should become a law and establish its rights. The reduction of the promised VAT and profit tax to 17 and 20 per cent will be established by law. Churchill also said that when there were tens of thousands of regulations, there was no respect for the law. We must force officials to respect the law. The law will also be respected by entrepreneurs, and thus we will contribute to the withdrawal of entrepreneurship from the shadows and the increase in income from the budget. And third, very important. This is the recovery of the banking sector. The Government must complete the recapitalization of those banks that need to be mobilized through its stable projected financial resources in order to resume lending to the real sector and to support the programmes of the National Bank, which also allow commercial banks to resume lending at least 18 to 19 per cent of the real-sector credits. Economics, business is what needs to get the country out of the crisis. There can be no freedom, no real freedom if there is no economic freedom. It is business that expands the borders of the State. It's business that gives money to the budget. And it's business that creates jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u31	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u32	The authorities must ensure these conditions for the business and should report, not on empty stories, but on business.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The statement has been completed. With regard to the proposals made in the speeches that require response from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Dear National Deputies! A draft Law on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 161 of 1985 on Occupational Health Services is under consideration. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Health Bilowal Alexander Mikolaiovich, co-rapporteur of the First Deputy Head of the Committee on European Integration, Večko Volodymir Mikolajovic. Registration number 0161. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine’s draft Law on Ratification of the International Organization of Convention No. 161 of 1985 on Occupational Health Services has been developed by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to implement paragraph 130414 in the action plans for the General Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the All-Ukrainian Union of Trade and Employers, and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 17.09. In 2008 Article 3 of the Convention provides for the gradual development of health care services to cover all workers, including the public and non-state sectors. An analysis of the experience of applying national legislation from the problem noted shows that the creation of health care services by government authorities in Ukraine is not appropriate because for many years the system operated by the National Epidemiological Service of Ukraine and the organization of the first-aid system in the health care and preventive measures of the health system, as well as in the cost-based enterprises. And that's why this convention and implementation doesn't need any additional funding from the State Budget. Despite the strong national legislation required, society today is underestimating the problem of preserving the labour potential of a country with a heavy burden of occupational illness, disability, premature mortality, and, above all, the working population. Today in Ukraine, the number of occupational diseases in recent years is about 6-7 thousand years. I, your honor, would like to pay attention to that. The largest number of occupational diseases and poisoning in our country today is reflected in the coal industry, which is now about 69-70 percent. In recent times, severe forms of chronic occupational illness have also been registered, resulting in the presence of our patients in a hospital bed. The result is a very large, serious increase in the disability of our population. That is the situation today. And our disabled today are people, especially those of working age. And compensation for losses today on the part of the State requires considerable economic loss. At the same time, the frequency of detection of occupational diseases does not reflect its real scale. For example, in the United States today, there are about 125-350,000 cases a year, ranging from 77 to 112 in Canada. The main thing is that in these countries, about 10 percent of the hospital’s beds are professionally ill. Today, the situation is also complicated by demographic indicators, socio-economic crises. The signs of today’s illness do not tend to improve. And the main thing is that today, I'm focusing on this, our citizens live on average 14 to 13 years less than in European countries. Every month our citizens are reduced by 70 to 80,000. And what's important, and what I'd like to point out is that one third of these dead are people of working age. All of these events are in the face of the collapse of the health care system for workers with harmful working conditions. And since 1991, the number of health units, factories, clinics, beds, doctors, workshops has been reduced by almost 11 times in our country and has not been able to affect the health of the country's working population today. This is characterized by high levels of occupational illness, disability, and isolated deaths on the spot. The results of national health surveillance indicate that there is an increase in the number of enterprises in Ukraine from year to year, both state and non-state, with hazardous working conditions. And according to various data, almost 2/3 of small businesses are in the shadows. So they work without a legal relationship, and the main thing is that there is no employment relationship with their owners. Thus, employers can hide from the work of such workers and deviate from the responsibility before the law in the event of a violation of the rights of the worker. According to the International Labour Organization, small businesses now make up some 90 businesses with harmful and dangerous working conditions. The National Sanitary Epidemic Service is now virtually out of control under the conditions of work and health of small businesses. This has always been facilitated and facilitated by restrictive measures, by the number of checks carried out in the country of deregulation, and the main thing is that it has recently been very active in the background of deregulation policy. Today, the implementation of this convention will allow for the improvement of the entire health care service in the country, the restoration of the priority of health care for the working population, the prevention of occupational diseases and the creation of conditions for the implementation of article 4 of the Labour Protection Act, which is to ensure priority for the life and health of workers, stressing the full responsibility of employers for creating safe, adequate and healthy working conditions. In addition, compliance with the concept will reduce the cost of depression: benefits and compensation for work in harmful and dangerous working conditions. With this question, on December 17, 2009, the Ministry of Health held a meeting of the College, which clearly addressed the issue of the condition and further development of prevention, diagnostics, and treatment of occupational diseases in Ukraine. And an appropriate collegiate decision was made. To date, the International Convention of Work No. 161 has already ratified 28 countries in the world. These materials are given to you, the distinguished national MPs, in the materials, and this information is provided. The draft Law on Ratification of Convention No. 139 on Occupational Health is in agreement with interested ministries, the General Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the All-Ukrainian Association of Employers and Entrepreneurs and the All-Ukrainian United Communities for 2008-2009, and is in agreement with all the central executive authorities of the country. The bill is in line with the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Principles. For today, I would like to draw attention to, honourable colleagues, the twenty executives of the Ministry of Agropolitics, the Ministry of Fuel, Energy, the Ministry of Transnexia, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Economics, Finance, the Federation of Employers of Ukraine -- only 20, who, without notice and agreed to this bill. The bill was approved at a government meeting on 13.01.2010, as well as at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and European Integration issues on 17.02. 2010 Honourable National Deputies, taking into account the above-mentioned Ministry of Health, ask you to adopt this bill on the ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 161 of 1985 on the Service of Occupational Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u35	Thank you. Please sign up for the question. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u36	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, in particular, in the accompanying material, I quote: “the bill is aimed at.” And among other things, there is such a phrase or a position: “promoting the introduction in Ukraine of the principles of economic relevance in the mechanisms of encouraging employers to create decent working conditions. I'd like you to explain what that means. It is my understanding that decent working conditions cannot depend on economic relevance or not, because they are primary, i.e. the basic hygiene of working conditions is primary, and the economic relevance of the employer must obviously be secondary. What did you mean when the project was designed to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u37	Thank you, Oleg Aleksandrovitch, you asked the right question, and I wanted to emphasize that today the state in the Sanitary Epidemic Service is in strict control of all of these processes. I did. But in general, the agreement signed between the Cabinet of Ministers, employers and trade unions must emphasize the primary responsibility of employers to create such structural units in their places to guide the process and to take responsibility for the safety of our citizens so that they have a socially protected status and generally do not lead to such situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u38	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to ask you a question like that. We haven't ratified this convention since 85. Why? They didn't ratify it because we didn't have the money and we didn't have plans to do it later. We are now saying that we are preparing to join the European Union, and this is one of the motivations for the ratification of this convention. Please tell me, to the extent possible, honestly, how much does the introduction of this convention cost us to work as it is? And is it already an organizational and technical plan to implement the provisions of this 161st convention, prepared to be introduced immediately? Well, let's say we ratify now. And whether this plan is ready or not and how much it's going to cost, and you think you can fund it in the budget, and how much in the budget we need to reach some normal level, considering that 80 percent is privatized, and there is virtually all of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u40	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you for asking. I think it came up in 2008. You know, we did a full analysis there when a corresponding agreement was signed between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, employers and trade unions. During the year, this brief work lasted because all these things had to be reconciled with all the bodies of interested ones, ministries, and authorities. They're practically about 20. And a plan of action and concepts was fully implemented, how to implement this issue. In general, we're making the emphasis, the assimilations that we have today, they're working on the budget plan for today. And the main aspect we also make for the shared responsibility of those, as you've noticed, most enterprises that are privatized so that every employer who owns their own enterprise can create such a structure on the ground, set up funding there, and account for all of these things. But it will be under the strict control of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u41	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u42	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, sorry for the non-parliamentary word, but please tell me where the dog is trapped in this convention? What do I mean? The convention was signed in 1985. That's the first one. It's not hard to figure out how many decades have passed. And the second. You yourself said that this convention has yet to be ratified by only 28 countries. What's the problem? Why is it so slow to ratify, and why have so few countries ratified this, I think, an extremely important and necessary convention for our nation?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u43	Thank you, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, for asking. You know, really, this convention was started in 1985. But the government returned to this issue in 2008. Only the government has returned, a corresponding agreement has been signed between the Cabinet of Ministers, employers and trade unions. We're practically a year away, the state, all the interested ministries have spent trying to reconcile these issues. And so far, we are going to make this decision. But in general it is up to those nations as they relate to the matter. And the 28 states I've told you about are a personal matter of every state. This does not have the official and biased requirements of this International Labour Convention. But in general, if each state responds properly to all these things. And it says that the main one is to protect the social status of our citizens in Ukraine. This will bring us the great benefit that we are going to today. Because the basic criterion, we're going to see today, is the demographic situation in our country. And these prerequisites that we have today, unfortunately, have a negative impact on the condition of our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u44	Hara Vasil Georgievicz, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u45	Dear Alexander Nikolayevich, I have no questions. Our Committee fully and unanimously supports this convention I mean, in a large way, respected colleagues are the obligations of the State and the employer to comply with the rules of their own Constitution. I would like to recall that we have 90 per cent of basic equipment that affects health. Two thirds of jobs with harmful conditions at different levels. There is no job appraisal. Production medicine was destroyed: factory polyclinics, medicine and so on, compulsory medical examinations were abolished, chronic and occupational diseases were increased. There is hardly a healthy working population. Ukraine is a dying nation, so we must do everything we can to ensure that the State commits itself and employers to making basic working conditions for increased work and better health. I therefore invite all deputies to actively support and ratify this convention. We will take a step towards European society as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u46	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u47	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u48	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich! The explanatory note for the adoption of this bill shows that 80 percent of enterprises controlled by the health care service do not comply with sanitary standards and regulations. In the coal, tractor, machine, agrarian sector, 35-57 percent do not comply with these standards. At the same time, the occupational illness in Ukraine, which is named in absolute numbers of 6-8 thousand, does not respond, and you've talked about it, to those indicators that are in other countries. And we know how difficult it is for a person to go through hell to prove that he has a professional illness. This has to do with the mass of experts and entrepreneurs who are not interested. So the question is: Will it be enough to adopt this convention to change the situation in Ukraine, to change the legislative, legal basis on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u49	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Grigorovich, indeed, I would like to answer your right question that the statistics we have today cannot appease us because there is a huge increase in disease. But in general, the adoption of this convention, which we are ratifying, will allow the state to exercise more strict control over the situation even of private enterprises that today have very imperfect working conditions for our workers. And considering that today in that convention it is also written down that each one has. By creating these places, he is sure to put appropriate funding there to create conditions that must meet the right conditions that you are talking about today. And I think that the adoption of this convention will not only push it, it will give the state a hard time to control this process in the country as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u50	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u51	Paul Sulkowski, Plaintish. I'm not asking questions, I want more suggestions. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you're right sometimes to ask the question that to some draft laws if you don't waste time, follow a reduced procedure. And we've done a lot of naming before, and we've done a lot of short-term procedures, and we've been looking at what we're practically discussing, and we're wasting our time. But I think that this project needs to be voted on, it needs to be voted on for Ukraine, but for the future I'm making a proposal, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, ratifications, they're practically being discussed on committees, and they're practically coming to Parliament to really, in short, consider them and make the right decisions. So I'm going to propose ratifications to follow a reduced procedure and then we'll go, we'll just stop for more.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u52	Thank you. Sit down, Alexander Mikolaiovich, time is up. I invite you to the report of the First Vice-President of the Committee on European Integration, Evening Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u53	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished National Deputies, Committee on European Integration at its meeting discussed the draft Law on Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention on Occupational Health Services. In our opinion, the ratification of this convention will contribute to the further adaptation of national labour and health legislation relating to safety and hygiene, industry and agriculture to European Union legislation. As a result of the rejection of the technical principle of providing health care to workers, the interaction and consistency in the work of the National Sanitary Epidemiology Service, the Medical and Prevention Institutes and employers in support of the professional health of our workers have been disrupted. There are 6 to 8,000 occupational illness cases per year in Ukraine, with an intensive rate of 800 to 1,000 cases per 10,000 workers. This is a great deal for the present. The changes that are taking place today in the socio-economic sphere of society require the introduction of new forms of organization of work, greater attention to ensuring safe and healthy working conditions in the workplace, and a higher level of social partnership. The need for ratification of the said convention is due to Ukraine’s desire to become an associate member of the European Union with a further prospect of full membership in the European Union. An important condition on this road is the strengthening of the economic and political ties between Ukraine and the European Union, which is to bring Ukraine’s existing and future legislation closer to the co-operation legislation laid down in the provisions of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community. The deterioration of the economic situation in our country and the reduction of budget allocations for health care have led to the deformity of health care and health care facilities, the reduction and elimination of vocational clinics, districts, health stations, and health - care facilities. [[It's very important, too.]] Few public enterprises with functioning medical facilities have been left to provide medical care to the workers. The ratification of the convention will allow for a return to the priority principle of medical care for the working population of Ukraine, a scientific basis for the creation of business conditions and the basic directions of the health care service, taking into account the specific potential risks that can take place in enterprises of different sectors of the economy. Compliance with the provisions of the Convention will preserve the country’s labour potential, reduce occupational illness, disability, and reduce the cost of regressive benefits and compensation for work in harmful and dangerous working conditions. The Committee is of the view that it is appropriate to ratify the Convention, which is in line with the decision of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to a co-conspirator. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, you may have some questions. Vladimir Karpuk faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u55	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Mr. Reporter, we really need to accept this Convention, we know that there is a trend in the countries of Europe, in the United States of America to export raw materials, chemical, machine-building, where there are harmful factors where there are harmful working conditions outside these countries. And, including within Ukraine, businesses are being built, that is, we applaud that there are investments that are being invested and given quite a bit of money, but at the same time in Ukraine these enterprises are being introduced, which have a negative impact on human health and some control by the state today. What do you think the Ukrainian side should do to make it impossible to build businesses in Ukraine that have a harmful effect on health care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. The question is a very important, relevant question to date, and I want to answer the following. What needs to be done is to adopt further legislation in Ukraine and to return to the health standards of the workplace at each industrial enterprise, whether it is a chemical enterprise, whether it is a metallurgical enterprise, a food business, before launching an industrial enterprise, must truly ensure the hygiene of work and only then pay attention to the economic development of the enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u57	Taras Cranville, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, well, there are probably 4-5 people in the hall who actually read the convention. All that sounds about questions, all that was said in the answers to the convention in principle, there's no mention of it at all. The only thing that is more or less specific about this is that all forms of ownership have to be created in enterprises at the expense of these enterprises, which will be called the "Work Health Service", which should be independent of the company's administration and should perform certain functions. The functions of this service are further described. But in another article, this is set out starting with 2 articles, and if I am not mistaken about 6 articles, there are points that make this creation virtually optional, giving it to the State, whether it is in union or in the enterprise itself, whether it is a joint venture or there. I understand we can vote for her. But, tell me, is it really so acute, and it's shockingly necessary, and is our economy and our business ready to endure that kind of stress?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. Indeed, I have read too, and I see that there is much to be done here. But we have to do something first. And before that, I said that we had to adopt a separate law within the State to take these points into account and control every industrial enterprise, i.e. the hygiene of work. It may be possible to revert to the standards that were before the Soviet Union, where each item was clearly listed at the enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u60	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin. So the question was, what is the dog stuck in this law that we didn't want to ratify? Perhaps she is engrossed in article 10, which states that during the performance of the functions listed in article 5, staff serving in the field of hygiene have complete professional independence from employers, employees, and their representatives, if any. So these people who have to check the safety of the work conditions will absolutely not depend on the oligarchs who own the enterprises, and they wouldn't want to. Apparently, there's a dog trapped here. But I'd like to ask. How are we going to implement this? This must be done and ratified, I can see by these standards. How will we control it? What control mechanism exists today and how the committee sees this mechanism, I'm sure you see a knife much deeper. how to implement this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. All the questions are correct and I wish to say that, indeed, there was a large gap particularly in the post-Soviet area when industrial enterprises were fully privatized, no one paid attention. Indeed, it has been rightly observed today that 80 per cent of industrial enterprises do not meet the health and environmental standards of occupational health. There's no standards today. That is why I said in my report that this ratification would return to the priority principle of health care for workers and the population, and we are simply obliged to draft a bill in the Supreme Council resolution to control these industrial enterprises, as you say, where they are controlled by oligarchs, and that each industrial enterprise should comply with the health standards of work. That's the only way we're independent of property.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u63	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u64	Or it's private property, we can control workers' health.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u65	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues! Please register to discuss the matter first from factions and then directly from national deputies. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Get ready for Carmazine. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone who read the convention obviously had the feeling that this convention was just a list of the positions that existed in our country during Semashka's preventive system, when medical services were in operation in enterprises, there was this principle of providing preventive medical care. And such a system would probably be recognized in 1985 as appropriate. And that's why we really need to ratify this convention today and go back to what was positive in preventive medicine in our country. In addition, it is clear that the Ministry of Health, as well as other interested authorities, should not stop merely on the issue of ratification, there is still much work to be done in advance to issue appropriate regulations or even separate legislative acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or the principles of the International Labour Organization regarding the hygiene of work, the preservation of the health of workers, were not only declared but embroiled in life. The faction of Yulia Timoshenko believes that this ratification is extremely important and will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u67	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Get Carpuku ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u68	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Respectable national MPs are certainly in a situation in which the state has found itself in many businesses, which is already more than 80 percent of the facilities currently controlled by the health and epidemiology services, according to the government, do not meet the requirements of sanitary standards and rules is a terrible situation. And we need to get out of this situation. How do we work when companies in the coal industry, heavy machinery, tractor, agricultural machinery, mining, agriculture, agriculture, agriculture, especially in those objects that we say belong to, unfortunately, oligarchs, the number of objects that do not meet the health standards is between 35 and 57.7 percent, according to the government. And the reasons that lead to this are only increasing from year to year, because the main reason is the use of outdated technologies, the equipment that has exhausted its resources, the significant reduction in the volume of collective protection and cost reductions, the economy, the economy, and now the crisis. Of course, I thank the government for taking the courage to do so, because it was only in 2008 that measures were being taken to join this convention, and this was done by the government, created by the BUT coalition, "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" and "Block of Lithuania", this government did. And this government has asked you, honourable national MPs, a question. Since 1985, we have not ratified this agreement, we have not applied to civilized countries. It is clear from article 14, that there is nothing more than that. I'm sorry to inform you that we have to implement the Constitution of Ukraine with you. I will bring you up to date and remind you that in article 43 of the Constitution, part four: “Everyone has the right to an adequate, safe and healthy working environment”. And we don't do that. The convention reads: “All workers should be informed of health-related factors related to their work” – this is article 13. And article 14: “Employers and employees inform health - care services of any known factors and likely factors in the manufacturing environment that may harm the health of workers. What's wrong? Nothing. We have to ratify. And the government, taking advantage of the opportunity to be the prime minister, asks whether to urgently prepare the plan in an organizational manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u69	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u70	for the fulfillment of the law, which will now be the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u71	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u72	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We will support the ratification of International Labour Organization No. 161 since 1985 of the creation of hygiene services. Unfortunately, this has been the case in Ukraine when there is no understanding that health care is an integral, important component of the country’s economic development. Without the understanding of every employer, which is clearly stated in article 5 of this convention, that the health and safety of his work is a guarantee of the development of an enterprise. And it's very important that this convention will contribute to an understanding of what needs to be done to ensure a preventive approach to health care, because it is here, in Article 5, that the functions of what needs to be done at that stage of planning and development of production in job creation should create all the necessary conditions to ensure health and safety of work. Because the situation that really lies in our country is that 80 percent of companies controlled by sanitation do not comply with sanitary standards and rules. And that large number of injuries, because there are thousands of people dying every year in production, thousands of people getting occupational diseases every year, and these are much smaller than those countries where there is, in fact, clear control of hygiene work and where there is a clear improvement in the diagnosis and the corresponding material compensation for this person. Unfortunately, this is precisely the medical field that belongs to the most corrupt. Because everyone knows how to get coal as a coal mine. a disease, such as getting a diagnosis of sbiliosis or other diseases, which in many cases is even fatal. Therefore, acceptance of this convention will, indeed, contribute to understanding even every employer’s understanding of what needs to be done to ensure health care and understanding that each worker is a factor in its economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u73	Taras Blackwall from. non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u74	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, Ukrainian national deputies, this convention is, frankly, a document for which we can vote, not a vote, the level of the document, the very convention itself is strikingly weak. It contains a series of internal contradictions. And so if we treat it as another document that provides us with some prerequisites to make something happen and to push ourselves up and do something a little bit extra, we can certainly vote. But if we treat it as we have in many performances, as an extremely important core document that will ensure that we will not have harmful productions and so on, there will be another disappointment. Because there's nothing like it in this convention. This convention is more specific about the creation of only one thing at the workplace. But when one article says clearly that they have to be created, it's practically on every one of them, in fact, that phrase, every enterprise. In the second article, in contradiction with the first, preceding provision, it is stated that a governmental authority can determine the form of their creation, determine whether they are in the enterprise itself, whether they are in union, or in other appropriate forms that provide for the activity of one or another. This allows either some enterprises to impose strict requirements that they should form these structures at their own expense without having the capacity to do so, and very often without having the right need to do so, in other cases: where, as they mentioned, where the oligarchs there were saying they were making very scary people, we could quietly do so, use the position of this convention and create nothing. So if we vote for it, there will be no special expense. But let us not expect that as a result, we will draw close to the European Union. Most European countries have not ratified this convention for the reason that it is, in fact, meaningless. We should not expect that this convention, instead of us, will solve the problems of protecting the work of our citizens in businesses, because some of these problems are already regulated by Ukrainian legislation, some of them need to be addressed. Because the convention rules are so pervasive that they will not give any real protection to the rights of workers. To protect them, we need to make this clear in Ukrainian laws. The convention itself does not force us to do so. So once again, we want -- we vote, we want -- we don't vote. I'm going to vote yellow, I'm going to hold on, because I think it is. Well, with good intentions, it's a violation of the Ukrainian legislative field. But once again, it's not harmful, it's just, unfortunately, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The Committee's conclusion is to support the draft law on ratification of the convention. It's a major science-expert management of the same mind. I therefore put to the vote the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 161 of 1985 on Occupational Health Services. Registration number is 0161. Please vote. [[11:20:46]] For 371 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Exemption of Tariffs, Taxes and Special Permits for the Transport of Regulatory Documents, Standards, Measurements and Standard Samples for the Purpose of Belief and Metrology of February 10, 1995 is under consideration. Here was a proposal to consider the issue of short-term ratification. I'm putting to the vote a motion for consideration, registration number 0163, under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:21:41]] For 230 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy, Losuk Larissa Volodymyrovna. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u76	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Agreement on Exemptions from Payments of Customs, Taxes, Special Permits for the Conduct of Regulatory Documents, Standards of Measurement, and Standards of Samples for the Purpose of Trust and Metrology Certificates was signed on February 10, 1995, by the Heads of Government of the 12 countries of SND. Agreement ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 9, 1996 The Protocol on Amendments to the Agreement was signed on 22 November 2007 by the Heads of Government of 10 SND countries other than Georgia and Turkmenistan. According to the protocol, two more lines of metrological activity were added to the agreement. It's calibration and circulatory. The amendments to the Agreement are made by harmonising national legislation and regulations in the metrology of the States Parties to the Agreement to international requirements and rules. Considering that the agreement was ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Protocol also needs ratification by adopting a law on ratification. A corresponding bill was drafted by the Ukrainian Parliamentary, which passed the procedure of internal agreement in 2009. Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of February 3, 2010, No. 106, on the application for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Protocol. As of today, the protocol has become effective in Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, in countries that are Ukraine's main partners in metrology. The granting of validity of the protocol in Ukraine will allow, without additional customs procedures and authorizations, high-precise means imported or exported from Ukraine to carry out animals and calibrations in accordance with international rules. Helpful, over three.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u77	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u78	the national benchmarks of the above-mentioned countries without duty. Ukraine’s standard base now includes 60 government and 70 secondary benchmarks. The bill was unanimously adopted at a meeting of the Foreign Trade Committee, so I would like to support the ratification of a protocol aimed at improving the agreement and contributing to Ukraine’s participation in international cooperation in the area of equivalency, traceability, measurement, which corresponds to the position of the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade in the World Trade Organization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u79	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Billorus Oleg Grigorovich, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, please make a decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u80	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of a protocol amending the Agreement on the Exemption of Tariffs, Taxes and Special Permits for the conduct of normative documents, benchmarks, measurement tools and standard samples for the purpose of trust and metrology as of February 10, 1995. The Committee recommended that the Supreme Council adopt a law on the ratification of this protocol. As we have heard from the State Committee's report, the ratification of the protocol will contribute to increasing the effectiveness of Ukraine's participation in international cooperation with the 12 or 11 SND countries, which is very important. It should be noted that the protocol entered into force on December 2, 2008, in connection with the ratifications of the three signatories of Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Tajikistan. This bill will not require additional expenditure from the State Budget of Ukraine. The Ukrainian State Customs Service accepted the draft law without notice on March 16, 2009. The Committee of the Supreme Council, under the Rules, marks the appropriateness of the registration of the bill to the requirements of articles 90, 92 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules. The main scientific and expert office considers the ratification of this international protocol to be appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u81	Let me finish. Oleg Grigorovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Names of the national MPs, please. No one has shown a desire to share in this discussion, obviously to everyone. Once again, the committee, honourable colleagues, made a positive decision. The Scientific and Experimental Authority has agreed with the committee's decision. I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Amending Protocol to the Agreement on the Exemption of Tariffs, Taxes and Special Permits for the Transport of Regulatory Documents, Standards, Measurements and Standards of Samples for the Purpose of Belief and Meteorology as of February 10, 1995. [[Registration number 0163]] Please vote. [[11:28:45]] For 331 The law's approved. Thank you. Dear colleagues! A draft Act on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 139 of 1974 on the fight against the dangers caused by carcinogenic substances and agents in manufacturing conditions and prevention measures is under consideration. [[Registration number 0162]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:29:32]] For 275 Decision taken. Reporter – First Deputy Minister of Health Bilowal Alexander Mikolajovich, co-rapporteur – Deputy Head of the Committee for European Integration, Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine’s draft Law on Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 139 of 1974 on Combating the Dangers caused by Carcinogens and Agents in Productive Conditions and Preventive Measures has been developed by the Ministry of Health to implement paragraph 3.14. 1 plan of action for the General Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by the Committee and the merger of employers, entrepreneurs and the All-Ukrainian Association of Trade Unions for 2008-2009, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on 17.09. The year is 08 C.E. Today, according to the World Health Organization’s outlook for 2020, the world’s population will be among the causes of mortality. Oncological diseases now take second place in the structure of the Ukrainian population's mortality and are the cause of almost every death in our country. So more than 87,000 citizens, people we lose every year in our country, and 1 out of every 4 has a disability or has a history of transferred oncropology. Today, data from the International Labour Organization show that between 5 and 10 percent of cancer cases have a negative impact on the person’s workplace cancer. And the greatest carcinogenic influence is caused and experienced by workers in mining, manufacturing, metallurgy, agriculture, transportation, and construction. I'd like to focus on the major carcinogenic factors, there's going to be ionizing radiation, manufacturing dust, heavy metal compounds, and various components. Thus, to date, only direct State losses as a result of this pathology amount to some 54 million dollars each year, not taking into account the economic losses resulting from the disability and premature death of workers in the family.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u83	Please let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u84	the control of exposure to carcinogenic substances. And the adoption of this ratification will allow for the creation of a national register of carcinogenically hazardous enterprises, trades and professions to determine the order of conduct of preventive tools, a national register of people who have been exposed to carcinogenic substances, manufacturing agents, a national reference laboratory for cancer control and agents in production and environment. This ratification is today. An international convention is supported by 30 countries around the world. Helpful. The bill was accepted by all ministries and departments and the bill was approved at the government meeting on 13.01.2010, and at the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 17.02.2010, as well as at the European Integration Committee meeting on 03.03.2010.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u85	Thank you, all of you, sit down, please. Deputy Head of the Committee on European Integration, Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich, please make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u86	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The European Integration Committee at its meeting considered the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a whole. On the positive side, the reporter said how negative I wanted to point out that the convention was approved in 1974. It took so long for Ukraine to understand the importance of this International Act and ratify it. The decision of the Committee on European Integration is in line with the conclusions of the Scientific and Expert Office, as well as the conclusions of other committees and other departments. I would just like to add that according to the 2007 State Department, there were few, and one and a half million citizens in production who did not meet the health and hygiene standards, which certainly had an impact on health and oncropology. Unfortunately, so far there has been no program in Ukraine to prevent harmful and dangerous manufacturing factors from affecting workers, as well as a strategy to replace carcinogens and agents in the production of noncancerogenic or less harmful to humans and the environment. Therefore, the ratification of this convention is extremely important, allowing both the Ministry of Health and other interested authorities to adopt the necessary regulations in order to remedy the situation we now have in this matter in the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u87	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian Block faction. Prepare Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u88	Mikola Shershun, Block Lithuania. Dear Head, honourable colleagues, meeting the terms of the convention, which is now proposed for ratification, would be quite appropriate for Ukraine. Sadly, there is a high incidence of cancer in our country. You can't make things any more difficult, because... a Implementation of the Convention will ensure the organization of safe working conditions and the residence of the population of Ukraine. Yes, when we implement article 1 of the Convention, we will receive a list of substances and agents that pose a health threat. This will provide the basis for action to reduce the number of harmful substances in the citizens’ environment. Such actions will have a positive effect not only on human health but also on the overall environment. I think it's worth paying attention to a certain degree of freedom of action in each member country, which turns out that each country makes up its own list of harmful substances and develops a system of action to reduce the harmful effects of such substances. A similar degree of freedom of action allows countries to adopt the Convention in their own needs and requirements. In addition, working together within the scope of the convention, countries will be able to exchange data on the existence of carcinogenic properties of substances that will contribute to the expansion of knowledge of harmful substances. On the other hand, the ratification of the Convention brings Ukrainian national legislation closer to EU legislation, which is a positive moment in European integration. Because the convention rules improve the social protection of our citizens, the convention is to be ratified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u89	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u90	Vladimir Karpuk, “For Ukraine!” MP, “Our Ukraine”. We support Ukraine's draft Ratification Act of the International Labour Organization Convention 139 since 1974, and I would like to point out that in Ukraine, almost 1 million people with cancer pathology are being disbursed. That's a pretty high figure. It is the ministry’s approved list of cancerous substances that can cause cancerous pathology. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that when we adopted the program, the government's target for cancer control by 2016 was, in fact, 99 percent of the funds were allocated to the acquisition of equipment, equipment, supply of drugs. At the same time, not enough funds have been allocated, and virtually nothing has been allocated to the monitoring of the carcinogens that are used in the production that are in the environment. And we can practically declare by adopting this convention that we will ensure that as little carcinogens as possible are in production, that as few people as possible have been in contact with them and as few as possible have been in contact with them. But without sufficient funding, it will be only, indeed, declarative. Declarations. That is why we support the adoption of this convention. And we really need to do everything we can to make as few people as possible be affected by both carcinogens and other harmful substances that are used in manufacturing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Bondarenko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u92	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Of course, the very fact that this document has been ratified in itself is important because it has for decades somehow not been ratified. I think you understand why? Some were interested in continuing to work according to old standards, producing certain materials that were long recognized as carcinogens in the world. For example. In Ukraine virtually destroyed all the national types of roofing materials, and the predominant period of time was a cipher that is not used and destroyed in Europe today, which is being buried. Our broadband plants continue to be said to be successful in poisoning the environment. The same is true of herbicides, pesticides, defoliants that are now being smuggled into Ukraine and stored in unprotected warehouses, poisoning the environment again. I believe that a child’s bowl of melanin, which comes from China and other countries, must also be stopped. Therefore, the development of national legislation after the convention should be subject to protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u93	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u94	Therefore, the development of national legislation should be subject to the clear implementation of the world standards laid down in this convention, first of all, to the protection of the health of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the faction, please, Dinner, one minute. Then it's non-fractional. Dinner microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u96	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! Today, we are considering drafts, surprisingly, that no one has done anything with such a statute of limitations today — 1974. Of course, this bill is very important, and the adoption of such a bill will strengthen State control and bring this legislation closer to work and health, that is all. And we must vote in favour. The faction of the Party of the Regions supports and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u97	Taras Chernobyl, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, of course, you can vote for the decree, and it has good, good principles. But I want to remind you, the 1974 convention, and it contains a number of very specific details, including a list that is completely out of date, and a number of questions, a number of substances that are today the biggest threat, are not reflected in this convention. Therefore, by ratifying it, we must understand that this ratification does not relieve us of the obligation to enact a number of laws, our laws, where it is to develop, specify and really protect people. And the second question, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, is, I have to tell you personally. In the agenda of the sittings we have, approved by the Conciliation Council, clearly number 0160, it was harmonized, it was denunciation, and the denunciation was carried out according to all the rules, according to the laws, but on the schedule for today's agenda it was strangely gone, that is to say it was essentially a correct decision of the Conciliation Board. I ask you to give the commission to deal with this, because it was included in the order on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u99	I'm asking the secretariat to look into it and provide the relevant information. If it's a technical malfunction, bring this document. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I stress once again the Committee's conclusion: to support the draft Convention Ratification Act. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office: to support the ratification of the convention. So I'm voting on a proposal for approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 139 of 1974 on the fight against the danger caused by carcinogenic substances and agents in manufacturing conditions and preventive measures. [[Registration number 0162]] Please vote. [[11:44:37]] For 334 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Television and Broadcasting is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the Secretary of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information of the St. George Jaroslavovich. Is there a reduced procedure for him? Is there a shortcut? Dear colleagues, the proposal is from the rapporteur and the committee to consider the matter in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:45:34]] For 212 Decision taken. Thank you. Yuri Jaroslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u100	Dear Head, dear colleagues! That draft of Ukrainian law, which I am now presenting, is about correcting a technical error in the current Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act. The error has crept into part two of article 32 and part six of article 33 of the Act. It's actually very simple: a mistake, really, is technical. When reshaping whether the licenses are issued by television or radio broadcasters, a reference is made to article 30, which reads as follows: “Requirement in the issue of a language license”. Therefore, I propose that this part of the second article 32 should be added and the reference to article 31 should be added, except for article 30, the refusal to issue a language license under article 31, the fee for issuing the extension of the conversion and the issuance of a duplicate language license. The same applies to the second law concerning part six of the law in force. This is about a language license with an extended term of action, which is decided by the National Council. The same reference to article 31, because in today's current law, it's obvious that from the beginning and issue licenses and re-licensing when referring to article 30 clearly means refusing to issue a licence, not any other option, such as reshaping or actually issuing a licence. In principle, that's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u101	You don't need extra committee regulations? Is that all the information?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u102	Yes. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u103	Thank you, please two for it, two for "against it". Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, these changes to the Television and Radio Act are completely technical. [[concerning changes to articles 32 and 33]] Because only the numbers 30 and 31 are added. So the order in the 32nd is distributed to which articles 30 and 31 of this law are provided. In view of this and having positive conclusions and scientific expertise, I would ask you, without seeing any underwater flows, to adopt this law in the first and at the same time in the second reading to suggest, if there are no observations, because there is nothing to consider in two readings. Even in one, we just have to vote now, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u105	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u106	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! I support this bill as part of the technical drafting of the bill in force, because it really doesn't bring any pressure. He's just referring one norm to another norm, which is to article 33, is intertwined with article 31-32 of the bill. But at the same time, I took the opportunity to speak from this rostrum on another issue, because you know that today television plays a very important role in the formation of a common society, so to speak, a moral and other space that affects life-forming, especially a young generation. And you know, it would be appropriate for the committee that's looking after our television and radio talk to be dealing with this one problem that really concerns the population of Ukraine. I think you see yourself every day. Lately, you know that there have been a lot of programs on television called game characters that deceive or deceive the population of Ukraine by offering Ukrainian citizens a call on one or the other program, whether it's a game business, guess there, seers and others who have appeared on television. And so I'm counting on people being deceived. And accordingly, state television or the authority that controls licensing or controls the nature of broadcasting does not perform its function, does not perform its function, and thus covers fraud, so to speak, the work of some channels. And such television shows, especially during the evening and weekends, are very much. So I'm asking the committee to speed up or strengthen the control of television broadcasts in part of the rogue broadcasts that abuse the population and form the negative morals and other sides of our population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u107	The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal for a profile committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[on licensing conditions]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:51:39]] For 319 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues who proposed that this law be adopted immediately as a whole, since it is very simple and contains only one change. Is there a objection in the session room? Is there a denial? Nobody's got one? I am betting on the adoption of the whole draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, number 5459. Please vote. [[11:52:27]] For 332 Decision taken. The law has been passed in general. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the publication of acts by judicial authorities]] Registration number 1147. As reported by Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u108	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Laws. [[on the publication of acts by judicial authorities]] The project proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine on the Higher Council of Justice and on the Court of Justice of Ukraine and to establish the obligation to publish acts of the High Council of Justice, the Presidium and the Plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Qualifying Commissions of Judges, the Assembly of Judges of Ukraine and the Council of Judges of Ukraine. The purpose of this bill is to ensure that citizens have access to the most important decisions of the judicial authorities. Of course, this bill will allow everyone to understand what is happening in the higher courts and to make it public as much as possible to ensure that decisions are made in a transparent manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Any questions for the reporter? Please log in. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u110	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich! Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear reporter! The idea of content has fully understood your bill, if we all demand, and people, first of all, demand transparency from other branches of government, particularly the legislative and the executive branch, why this should not apply to the judicial branch of power. It's perfectly clear. The only thing I'd like you to explain here is, obviously, you've been looking at the findings of the Science-Expert Authority on your bill, some of the things that made me think that you're talking about in the bill that you're necessarily going to publish within seven days the right decisions, but the very classification of these decisions is what you're changing. How is this explained, and should this not then be discussed in the Explanatory Note as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u111	Thank you, Mr. Liege. I want to tell you that this is about all the acts that are taken by the designated authorities in the branch of power. If this is the Superior Council of Justice, these are acts of recommendation either for dismissal or for appointment of judges. If it is a decision to convene judges, there is a wide range of decisions. Therefore, the classification of these decisions is given in the relevant laws, in accordance with the Law on the Judiciary, in the Law on the Status of Judges, in the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice and in other laws covered by the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u112	Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u113	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. I fully support the idea of standardizing the promulgation of all acts of judicial authority. But how do you feel about the need to put the same order in other branches of government and in the presidential administration, including. Today, we learn that Yushchenko has already rewarded the cat of the yard, the tarans, and other small rodents living in the administration. Because there are lists on “Ukrainian Truth” today: one Hero Simonenko Valentinin, the other Hero Gregory Omelchenko, and the third Hero Stelmach. These heroes may be from the tenths, 186 from the same act, and people do not know about it, and among other sources of authority is the Ukrainian people. How do you feel about all branches of government, including the President, publishing their decrees immediately? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u114	Thank you. Mr. Volodymyr, I fully agree with your thesis. The only thing that doesn't touch my bill is little rodents, like you said, but with all the factors, I fully agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u115	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin. I have a more serious question about not a name, called the law on the promulgation of acts of the judicial branch, and in fact we have in article 27, in my opinion, the question is raised correctly. But the charges are only against the Board of Appeal, that is to say, a change in the prosecution procedure. In article 54, you write a rule when you hold meetings of the Presidium not more than twice a month. You're making it more transparent, but given that changes are also made to the law on the system, which is overcrowded, is totally out of place. The Head of the Commission Act is being introduced, maybe you should change the name of the law, as you see now that you've seen this layer that you've lifted up, a serious layer definitely?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u117	Thank you, Your Honor Yuri Anatolyovich, I am ready to accept your suggestions. This bill is proposed for second reading right now only and I'm ready to take into account with you the amendments that you said you might need to change the name completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u118	Dear Andrew Vadimovich, if you please, I also have a question for you as part of the first section of article 27 of the Law on the Superior Council of Justice. With regard to the subject matter of the charges, do you consider it possible for a change that does not stem from the ideology of the law, its substance, and the addition to the second part of what you propose, do you think it is also necessary in this context to amend the Law on the Higher Council of Justice?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u119	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich! I agree with this position, and I am prepared to take your opinion into account when considering the bill for second reading. Indeed, the Law on the Superior Council of Justice requires some other changes, including the manner in which its decisions are challenged. Parliament has now been proposed and unanimously passed through the Justice Committee of the Act amending the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, where the issue of the prosecution of acts of the High Council of Justice will be fully and clearly regulated by the Supreme Council. So I agree with your proposal and I ask you to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u120	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. After the break, we will have a report from the Committee of Svetoslav Vasilovich Olijnik, and then a discussion according to the schedule of today's meeting. A break is announced in 12.30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I invite the head of the Committee on Justice's Subcommittee on the Justice of Oliynik Svetoslav Vasilovich to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u122	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Bill No. 1147 proposes to amend Ukraine’s laws on the Supreme Council of Justice and on the judiciary of Ukraine, establishing the obligation to publish acts of the High Council of Justice, the Presidium and the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the qualified judges, the meeting of judges of Ukraine and the Council of Judges of Ukraine. The above-mentioned acts, in addition to the decisions of the qualified panel of judges, are proposed to be published electronically on the official websites of the above-mentioned bodies, and individual acts also by publishing them with the official printed body of the Supreme Court of Ukraine within five days of their adoption. Control over the publication and placement of these acts is proposed to be placed on the official who signed the act. The decision of the qualified judges of Ukraine is proposed to be made public within seven days of their adoption by the Ukrainian Judges’ Council itself. In addition, it is proposed to establish the obligation to refer the acts of the designated authorities to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that citizens have access to the most important decisions of the judiciary. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the purpose of adopting this bill and proposes to adopt it as a basis. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered Bill 1147 at its meeting and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis. Please support Bill 1147, unfortunately there are few deputies in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. Names of the national MPs, please. Pavlovsky’s national deputy, the Faction of BUTU.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u124	Dear reporter, we understand that the purpose of this bill is to increase transparency in the work of the judiciary and citizens' access to information accordingly. Is there a statistic that we're dealing with right now? Is there a refusal to provide such information to citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u125	There is no such statistics because there is no publication of these acts. The fact is that not only citizens, but even national MPs or executives, for example, simply do not know what acts are being taken by all these higher courts, judicial authorities. The point is that in the basic way that other public authorities have long been working, the process is regulated when decisions of judges are made loud and accessible both to the public and to experts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u126	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u127	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Mr. Svetoslav, there is a question concerning the correlation between the right to complain about decisions and the terms of their publication. So it can actually be publicized and it can become a valid decision, which is at the stage of the complaint and can be overturned. How does this bill provide for a way out of the possible conflict that will arise in connection with the order of publication and the manner of the accusation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u128	I don't think there's any colossals here. I'll just give you a simple analogy. For example, the decrees of the President of Ukraine, or acts of the Supreme Council, or the Cabinet of Ministers, are made public and can then become the subject of an accusation, either in the administrative court or in the Constitutional Court. This is a normal process, and when the changes are accepted, then the same information is given, if on this basis new acts are taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u129	Well, there are always legal consequences. When an act is adopted, it immediately results in legal consequences, and when the act is repealed in an established order, such as a court order, there are legal consequences in the form of annulment. There's no problem here, that's how all government agencies work, and that's normal natural order.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u130	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u131	Sveslav Vasilovich, I have the following question. We know that in the Supreme Council, it has repeatedly been said that the material and technical provision of the judiciary as a whole and the functioning of the courts has been inappropriate in recent years, which has prevented judges from performing full-time tasks related to document-making, timely departures, etc. Well, there's been a lot of complaints like that. Please tell me, does the introduction of such a bill require any additional costs? Will this be ensured and budgeted? And at what cost? And what kind of sum could that be? Because the total number of acts taken by the court branch as a whole is very large. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u132	Thank you. The drafters of the bill and the committee do not see any additional costs in implementing the bill in the form of a Law. Why? Because the public administration today is provided with simple electronics, that is, what is called a website on the Internet. And it's on this web site that we're proposing that we put these acts that we're talking about. In addition, of course, correspondence between, say, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council, which is still part of the normal paperwork of the authorities. So we do not foresee that any additional costs will be borne by the State budget in connection with the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u133	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the bill, first of all, since the faction is being recorded. Please, now from the nationals, simply the national MPs. Can I have your last name? Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u134	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Of course, what the bill provides for must certainly be put into effect, because there is no order for publication, no publication of acts by the higher courts today. Some of these documents remain unknown to ordinary citizens or even experts, which is unacceptable, since the Constitution states that the only source of authority is the Ukrainian people, so the people need to know. Of course, this document should regulate the order of publication, print, or other media that should be published in a mandatory manner, as well as the order in which these acts are numbered, and also determine which of them may be classified and which may not be classified. At the same time, it was thought that other authorities of state and local self - government already had an order for their acts to be made public. I'd deny it. Today, open the Ukrainian Truth site and you will see publications of individual decrees issued by the President of Ukraine that were approved when Yushchenko was President. These unique decrees, individual ones, contain below the 200 names of those who received the prizes. Who knew about this, and why are they published a month after the decision was made? I would also like to see some justification for the acts or decrees of the President. The point is that, for example, I still don't understand the heroic act that Valentin Simonenko did in his role as head of the House of Auditors, which heroism he showed. I remember that as a hero, he embalmed the Black Sea. If Odessa’s seafaring is fishing, I remember, and there’s nothing else I can remember. I also don’t remember the heroic actions of Gregory Omelchenka, a colleague of ours, but I can’t remember. Maybe someone would tell me what he's done to the hero, except to dirty the "Julia Timoshenko Block". I am sure that such publications, such as these, would give me greater confidence in authority. The same is true of local self - government. Look, the Kyiv government, which in one session distributes 300-400 land plots to students of different universities. I'd like to see the reasons why these students, unlike the 220,000 Chinese families that haven't received housing before, have the right to have these areas with packs, hundreds of them, on what grounds, and then who's going to collect them in one large assignment up to 100 hectares and more? Thus, the system, order, numbering, publishing of all acts, including local self - government, must be normalized in the State. So far, unfortunately, there is no such thing. Therefore, this step, which was taken in the system of publishing acts of the higher courts, is correct and needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? I can't see. Question completed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office agrees with the committee's decision and also says that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the publication of acts by the judicial branch of power. [[Registration number 1147]] Please vote. [[12:41:33]] For 289 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the establishment of social guarantees for foster parents]] [[Registration number 2415]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Tkac Roman Volodymyrovich. He is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Svetlana Alexandrov. Roman Volodymyrovich, is it a reduced procedure or what? Dear colleagues, a proposal from the author of the bill to consider it as a reduced procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[12:42:28]] For 222 Decision taken. Please, Roman Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u136	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” I want, in one way or another, a banal phrase, but I want to start by saying that there are no other people's children. Unfortunately, life, statistics say otherwise: today we have a lot of orphans, half the orphans, children deprived of parental care, and that's why there's a problem in the country. In recent years, thanks to both the previous authorities, both the President and the government, and in general us, the Supreme Council, it has somehow made a partial decision, but unfortunately, the issue of child orphans remains very relevant. The standards of the Ukrainian Family Code, the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, “On the provision of institutional and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care” are defined by the primary arrangement of orphans and children deprived of parental care, i.e. their forms of adoption, care, care, and foster care, since the current state care system, i.e. children's homes, boarding schools, children's homes, cannot give a child a sense of belonging to a family, love, which is so important for becoming a person in society. What, then, is the “faithful family ”? The Ukrainian Family Code defines a foster family as a family that voluntarily took care of and shared living from one to four orphans and children deprived of parental care. The foster children live and are brought up in a foster family until they reach the age of 18 years, and in the case of vocational and technical training, the higher education institutions of the first and fourth levels of accreditation, before they finish. The adoptive parents are legal representatives of foster children and act without special powers as guardians or caregivers. By the way, according to statistics -- true -- I have only the data for October 1, 2009, which has 2,000 827 foster families in which 4,000 are raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u137	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u138	Just a minute. . 4,000 70 orphans and a child deprived of parental care. Thus, given that foster parents have the same responsibilities for child rearing and development as biological parents, I have drafted a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation, a registration number of 2415, which proposes to extend to adoptive parents all kinds of social guarantees that the Ukrainian Labour Code provides for biological parents, guardians and caregivers, namely, to extend to them the operation of articles 56 - part-time work day; 176 - ban on the involvement of women who have children up to three years of age before night work, working on weekends and deploying them; 177 - restricting the involvement of women who have children from 3 to 14 years and so on; and the third part of article 179 - care leave until they reach the age of three. And there are five articles here too. I would like to point out, at the end of the day, that the legislative initiative was considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's professional committee on social policy and work, which expressed its support for the bill. The bill also supported the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support him as a basis. If there are any comments, then they will be submitted to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u139	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelova from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u140	The Honourable Head, distinguished national MPs, radio and television at his meeting on 18 June 2008, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work considered a bill amending some of the legislative acts introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tkac Roman Volodymirovich. [[on the establishment of social guarantees for foster parents]] The bill amends article 186.1. The Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine and articles 18, 19 and 20 of the Law on Leisure. With appropriate changes, the drafter proposes that one of the adoptive parents be granted the right to a child-care leave until he reaches three years of age, as well as the right to additional paid leave. The Committee agrees with the author's initiative and believes that the adoption of the bill will establish the equal rights of citizens to social protection guaranteed by article 24 of the Ukrainian Constitution. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to amend certain legislative acts and to adopt them as a basis. [[on the establishment of social guarantees for foster parents]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u141	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u142	Vladimir Karpuk, “For Ukraine!” MP, “Our Ukraine”. I would like to thank Roman Volodymyrovich for the state’s approach to this problem. Because in front of society, in front of a community that accepts that biological parents do the same work, the same duties. And those proposed amendments to the Labour Code, particularly the Holiday Act, are correct. And I think you can accept this bill as a basis and as a whole. Because these proposals do not create contradictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u143	Thank you, too. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u144	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Such a phenomenon as a foster family, such as in status or in the form of a form of State care in Ukraine, has not long since emerged. And in fact, the State has the same responsibility as the biological parents of the child as the adoptive parents. That is, the function and mission of a foster family is identified by the function, responsibilities, and mission of a biological family. In this regard, it is obvious that we need to support the authors of the legislative initiative, which, by referring to these functions, a foster family, seeks to provide an opportunity, including a socio-infrastructural opportunity, in order for the family to be able to train the child with dignity. And if we look at what benefits are actually set for a foster family, it is the authors of the legislative initiative that have completely moved them from the biological family. The only thing I would like to point out is that the bill, particularly in chapter 5, Financial and Economic Grounds, notes that the implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. Obviously that's not exactly true, because I'm opening a bill, chapter 3, here it's 56 hours. More specifically, not 56 hours, sorry, 56 articles – “Complete working time”. This includes vacations in connection with pregnancy, childbirth, and child care. This is about the order of leave and care, and so on. In a meaningful way, that's absolutely true.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u145	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u146	In a meaningful way, that is absolutely right. But agree that these are some of the costs of the State budget that the state obviously has to bear. So I'd like to make this more precise in both the explanatory note and the project itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u147	Thank you. Pavlovski People's Deputy, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u148	Andrey Pavlowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". Our faction was looking at the bill. And in view of the fact that it is really aimed at supporting foster parents who adopted orphans or children who are deprived of parental care, we propose to support this bill in the first reading. I would also like to draw attention to an equally important social bill, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and to you too. A month ago, you were giving an assignment, and the Supreme Council voted urgently, under a reduced procedure, to vote on the bill, to consider and vote on the bill on State social support for low-income families. If you remember, more than 300 deputies voted in favour of the bill. But in view of the fact that the Social Policy Committee’s first meeting with the efforts of the Party of the Regions had been torn down so that the bill could not be considered, some inconsequential legal implications had been found to be removed in general. That's why he's not getting out. That's why I'm calling as a national deputy, and the deadline is now -- to consider a bill to support low-income families. And that's what Maciavella said when they went to power with Yanukovich the Party of Regions, they promised that whatever they came to power, they would always explain why they couldn't do it. Keep your commitments, keep your promises, be honest, first of all before your constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I immediately inform the honourable colleague that, according to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a short deadline has been set for the preparation of this law for the second reading on Thursday, i.e. for tomorrow it will be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was discussed at the Conciliation Council. If new circumstances have arisen, a draft decree should be made to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the law in the first reading. Dear colleagues! A faction that did not use the right of speech, please, Jaroslav Dry microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! I'm talking about the bill, and you know that the social and labour guarantees for workers who raise children that are provided for in Ukrainian labour legislation answer questions about whether the funds are budgeted. Costs are fully budgeted each year. It's just that this year there's no budget, there's no funds, and in general there's no comment on the financing of this bill, and we've asked on the committee the honourable colleague of Roman Tkach, the drafter of the bill, whether he would object to us voting on this bill as a whole right now. That's why I'm making this proposal, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's not new anymore, it's not new, it's from Mr. Karpuk, to vote mainly, and then in general for the bill. As for the low-security bill, I'm a respected colleague, so I understand the former member of the Committee on Social Policy, and I don't see you on the committee for the second month, and I saw you the last time you got up and left the meeting. You come to the committee meeting, and then you and I will consider these bills, you have no moral right here in the hall to reveal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's get back to this bill. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. So I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on a draft law amending some of the legislation on social guarantees for foster parents. [[Registration number 2415]] Please vote. [[12:55:44]] For 325 Decision taken. Honorable national MPs, made a proposal from colleagues of Karpuk and others, particularly Yaroslav Suhogo, to adopt this bill as a law as a whole. There are no observations on this subject in the Science and Export Authority. Since there is a remark by a national MP, then the law is only adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, then we can make a decision about it. The thing is, we have two weeks of committee work, factions and voters, and it's going to be cut short anyway. Please, Roman Tchac.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u152	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, indeed Mr. Vladimir Bondarenko has made his remarks, but I think his remarks, I would still ask him, he said for a moment, they don't apply to this bill, they are reflected in other bills. It's just here in two laws that we add to biological parents a tape of "adopt parents" and rights there, including in the house, are provided by other laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u153	Vladimir Bondarenko, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u154	Vladimir Bondarenko. I just have real practice of working with such families in the Sanhedrin region. For example, the Gedz family, who took six children into their lives, we have been solving for years the problem of returning to the residential area that the orphaned children have left behind, as well as providing such families with large cars. [[Well, my parents are dead.]] Therefore, there are job guarantees, and there are other guarantees. So if we don't predict it here, we have to reflect it in another law. I don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u155	So perhaps, your honorary colleagues, Vladimir Bondarenko gave the right indication, but he doesn't deny it -- it may be a matter of consideration in another law. Therefore, the objection is all removed. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u156	I am betting on a motion for adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on the establishment of social guarantees for foster children]] [[Registration number 2415]] Please vote. [[12:58:38]] For 347 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending some legislation in Ukraine. [[on the activation of investment and innovation activities]] [[Registration number 2356]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinovich. Why don't we take a brief look at it? Dear colleagues! The proposal came to the attention of the bill by a reduced procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[12:59:30]] For-144 The decision is not taken. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u157	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! You are aware of the proposal for a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activation of investment and innovation activities]] The purpose of the bill is to set up mechanisms at the legislative level to encourage investment and innovation activities of business entities through, inter alia, setting up tax incentives to encourage investment in the acquisition of new equipment and equipment, rights to inventions, industrial models, know-how, etc. The bill amends Ukraine's laws on corporate income taxation and on how to pay taxpayers' obligations to budgets and public trust funds, proposes to create certain conditions for encouraging investment and innovation activities of business entities. In particular, it is proposed to reduce from 25 percent to 20 percent of the income tax invested in the reporting period for the major funds of the second and third groups. These are equipment, machines, equipment, freight and non-material assets related to the rights of inventions, useful models, industrial models, know-how, patterns of plants to be used in business for at least 3 years. In addition, it is proposed to provide special investment benefits in the form of an investment-innovation tax credit. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded that the bill could be adopted as a basis. The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Finance and Banking Committee was fully supported by the bill. I ask the MPs to support this bill as one that does not contain any political elements, and the implementation of this bill will contribute to the revitalization of the investment and innovation activities of business entities, the improvement of the mechanism for the administration of income tax and the mechanism for the granting of investment and tax credit. I would like to add that this bill reduces tax pressure on all businesses, makes it possible to develop businesses, makes it possible to develop businesses. This bill is one of the few that improves the situation in terms of tax cuts for Ukrainian businesses and contributes to the development of new technologies, new jobs, and the development of the economy as a whole. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u159	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. Mr. Vladislav, when you spoke, I remember not so long ago when Mr. Seminozhenko, and as I understood from Mrs. Herman's mouth, he'd seem to be vice-prime minister, creating tech parks. [[That's how he was.]] The end of the huge financial flows that have gone to these parks has not been found so far. So innovative activity is so interesting. You offer tax credits is a unique phenomenon for corruption. Technology parks that have become Bush’s “scissors” or other chicken legs in the form of innovative technology – the supply of meat can also become a new phenomenon in Ukraine. That is, what Kuchma said: “It’s all gone,” I think, with your bill really everything is back to what it was. That's why I won't vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u160	Mr. Bondarenko, well, you know, I'm, on the one hand, ashamed of your political position. And I could give a lot of examples when people's defenses are unfortunately not good for the economy as a whole, or for citizens of Ukraine, or for entrepreneurs. This bill does not contain any political element. As a representative of the opposition force, if I were you, I'd look at it -- tax cuts, that's what you promised your voters. On the other hand, it makes the future of the government more difficult, and it makes it more difficult for the budget to increase, at least temporarily, in the first period. Even though this bill will be implemented and it will start to work, it will bring taxes and revenue much more and improve the business climate in our country. So let us make balanced decisions that benefit our support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u161	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u162	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Stanislav Arjevetin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u163	Stanislaw Arjewitin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u164	Vladislav Valentinovich, you are criticized by all the experts who appreciated this bill, mainly for introducing new terminology. It's about an investment and innovation tax, because everyone claims that the innovation tax and the investment and innovation tax are the same thing. Because innovation is a continuation of investment. You haven't deciphered this terminology. Please tell me, maybe you'll tell me from the rostrum what the difference is?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u165	Mr. Arjewitin, thank you for asking me, thank you for the meaningfulness of the matter, and it explains the situation. I would like to refer to some of the statistics that now characterize basic funds in the Ukrainian economy. We know that most of the funds are wear-out and average wear-out across all sectors of the economy is more than 50 percent. This bill allows us to upgrade the basic funds of enterprises more quickly in the tax regime. We're allowing money to be involved, we're allowing investments to be made. This is why an update means the innovative direction of this bill. That is why this explains both the proposed terminology and the mechanisms for reducing tax pressure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u166	Zinovo Shkutak, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u167	Please pass the word to Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u168	Stanislaw Arzeviteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u169	Dear reporter, the next question to you, even though you did not answer the previous one. I said, what's the difference between innovation tax and investment and innovation? But as they said. Please tell me in your latest proposal regarding chapter XVII, “Tax sanctions”, that financial institutions should now regulate the flow of payments, regardless of the fact that the owner of these funds is an entrepreneur and must determine the sequence in which payments are to be made. Instead, you suggest and write such a phrase that, aside from transactions with assets that cannot be sources of repayment of tax debt. I think it's not a banking institution that should determine whether an asset affects taxes or not. So I think you've hanged an incompetent faction on financial institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u170	Mr. Argewitten, I may agree with your observation in some way. And I think in the second reading we could agree on the formulation of this proposal either to look at, or to rule out, to settle this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u171	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u172	Vladislav Valentinovich, of course, is your idea. I support it because it gives us some understanding of why to update the basic funds and businesses that are still in very difficult tax, so to speak. Because we have taxes for some industries that are not able to pay at all, because modern, so to speak, and the automation or modernization of enterprises has not taken place, unfortunately, in the last 20 years. I have something to do with this. As you think, investment is one, and innovation is a slightly different concept, because innovation is what moves the country, the economy, or the industry forward. Could you tell us how to divide these concepts, how to divide this question in practice, how to reflect it in a practical sense, including in taxation on the part of the authorities that are working on it. That's the first question. And the second question. Do you not count on narrowing down the sectors or businesses that are essential?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u173	Mr. Gregory, I thank you for your questions and thank you for asking those who ask the question that we are walking away from the political principle and discussing economic principles. Mr. Gregory, in answer to your first question, I want to say that you can actually keep a separate account and divide the costs of innovation and investment. And as for the issue of innovation, the cost, it refers to the question of Mr. Arjevetin. I want to say that when we're updating our core funds, when we're updating, that's definitely the direction of innovation. It's not always going to be resource-saving and energy-saving technologies. But it's usually a correlation, and most of the new technologies are both energy-saving and resource-saving. That's why we're supporting this development.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u174	Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u175	Vladimir Mopsik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to a colleague of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u176	Jurick Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u177	Yuri Carmazin, thank you. I have a question for you. Tell me, please, this is one of the few laws that we see the signature of Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. First. And it is obvious that this law, though introduced a year and a half ago, must be clearly in line with all the requirements of legislation. I can see the benefits of this law. As far as I'm concerned, it's best to adopt a new Tax Code, which somehow your faction doesn't just want to see what we've made with the National Deputy Catherinechuk. Although I am in favour of this law, I repeat, I vote. But I do not see what the 27th article of the Code of Budgets requires: an estimate of the expenditure to be reduced to the budget due to the immediate loss.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u178	Please, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u179	Thank you. It's just that I have the next time, so thank you. I'd like to ask you not to add the calculation. A year and a half has passed, so far there is no calculation. Is there, at this point in time, an account that is foreseen in article 27 of the Budget Code? This time. Because that's when I had to. And what are the losses you're predicting will be? Because I agree with you that someday it will produce positive results, but when? The loss will come immediately, from the time the law becomes effective, and from the time it takes effect. And what's more, you know, we have a lot of people who are going to use these creeps. We were already carrying wings from an outdated “Volga” and wrote that they were innovations, and the Academy of Sciences then reported that they were innovative technologies. But it was easy to drive from Lower Novgorod. That's why I have such a question for you, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u180	Mr. Carmazin, I answer your question. And I'd like to say that the Ministry of Finance did some preliminary calculations. But it did these calculations in a situation where it did all sorts of things to avoid doing anything to reduce the tax burden on the real sectors of the economy. And according to the Ministry of Finance's previous calculations, which I don't support -- I think the losses would be, well, in order less than they calculated -- they calculated that this bill would have an impact on the income portion of the budget somewhere in terms of a reduction of 1.7 billion dollars. According to my calculations, I've estimated this number to be less orderly. I mean, at 250-300 million dollars. More than that, if, for real.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u181	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u182	If this bill really worked and entrepreneurs started to upgrade their core funds, start investing in business development, and create jobs, it's very important. Because this bill is actively anti-crisis. So it'll improve the situation for businesses, for, well, practically, for any sector. It's a universal law, and I don't want to restrict its application in any way, what I'd like to add to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is running out on questions, answers. Let's move on to the bill. Please sign up for the bill. Have a seat, please. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please. Prepare Gregory Smitsch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u184	What is not included?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u185	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u186	Stanislav Arjewitin, group “For Ukraine! ” I think the bill that we've been offered has the right to life. I will personally support him. Of course, today, in order to upgrade the basic resources of our enterprises, you need any little but state support. And these motivations, which are set up by this bill, i.e. the suspension of tax payments, the reduction of tax from the base rate of 25 to 20 percent, are small benefits for such enterprises, but I think it's a good motivation for us, in Ukraine, to update the basics. I think that the strong part of this bill is the proposed mechanism when it is clearly prescribed and registered for an investment-innovation project that will implement an undertaking or another company that has a statutory relationship with tax inspection, control and fine sanctions in the event that the conditions of such investment tax receipt, investment tax credit are not met. I think these are the strengths of this bill. But at the same time, of course, the author may need to draw a clear line or make a description of the difference between an investment and an innovative tax credit before the second reading. Because they're now connected, if they're connected, it shows that they're a continuation of the same investment development. I've already mentioned that it's not the function of financial institutions to determine which direction the customer should pay his own costs, because that's his property, and he has the right to determine the priority of these payments. So I don't think we should set up legislation, so give the banking institution, determine whether these assets will affect taxes or payments that are being made or not. I think this function really needs to be adjusted. Under this bill, we have a negative answer and an assessment by the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Tax Matters. But of course, they took the basic sum of the fact that immediately after this bill was introduced, the budget would not receive, according to an estimate of the Ministry of Finance, one and a half billion, according to the tax committee, more than a billion. I think it's a simple arithmetic: to figure out how much the enterprise gets from time to time, the extra revenue and the payment to the state, of course, it's hard to count. But if nothing is done, of course there will be no additional income. So I propose in the first reading that this bill should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u187	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u188	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I personally call upon you all to support this bill, regardless of what I think, and you will have a point of view that you need to work on it before the second reading. And that's what I'm saying. First of all, there's no question that we need to divide the innovation and investment activity. That's the first question. Of course, there must be priorities, economic development and areas or areas in which Ukraine can bring the economy to the world market, so that it can make money to provide for its social needs, including its needs. Of course, the Ministry of Finance and the entire tax system or the repressive system that works against business development, because they have one task: how to fill the budget, not how to develop the economy of Ukraine, but how to fill it. They have certainly been and will always be against such laws. Another point of view. You know that today is an accelerated, so-called depreciation deduction for some of the basic funds. And of course they're divided into three categories. These three categories are divided according to one or the other sectors. And of course, what should be considered carefully: What is needed in Ukraine? It may be necessary to reduce amortization terms somewhere, or it may increase. This is also an object for these funds to be earmarked for the renewal of the core fund. Because the economic sector. Our industry is in such a terrible state. If you are, most of you may be, or all of a hundred percent of you may be in a state like this if we were in postwar or prewar times. So if Ukraine doesn't stimulate it in this way, and this is one way of stimulating it, is to upgrade or develop the basic means of production that affect the specific cost of production, we will never get Ukraine out of the gap that Ukraine is in today. And the second question. We never fill social benefits for Ukraine's social needs, because we have, you know, social expenses, social benefits. In particular, we have at times played a part in providing such benefits to very broad population groups, not enough money in the budget. And when the budget is adopted, you remember that the Constitutional Court has also pointed out that we do not comply with social laws that are not permitted under the Constitution, but why they are not implemented because there is no money, and the only source of punishment is production. And if we don't give production the right conditions for them to start working, we're going to have a bump. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u189	Yuri Carmazin, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", to prepare Moses. Xenia Liapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u190	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Of course, different thoughts arise when you see bills that, on the one hand, are positive, and on the other hand you see that they are not sufficiently prepared yet. Although it has been in our possession for a year and a half, it is a bill. In fact, there's a system in place in the country that, many years from the age of 17, we still have basic funds, I mean a machine, a revolutionary year of graduation. Of course, these basic funds are worn out and something needs to be done today, but at what? So let's say that even those calculations that are now called one and a half billion, one billion, and so on, are going to be the sums of the reduction in corporate income tax that goes to both state and local budgets, that's a serious amount. A serious sum, but sooner or later we have to do this, and I am pleased that in this draft law, let's say there are proposals for amendments to the Business Taxation Act, and in article 10.1, paragraph 10 is planned to be made in a different edition, there are 20 percent of the tax facility, but they have already written and used some of these things after the lease, they say that you can't buy cars, and you only have to buy basic funds, it's already a plus. There is a plus, although I see some threats that will depend on the subject, the subjective part will be that the heads of the central authority of the State Tax Service will be able to resolve matters later on with these payers of this loan. I see that there's some kind of saviour here, and for that, I think this law is going to have to be written more seriously in the second reading. In general, I think that with all the shortcomings that have been said, it may be accepted, but I would certainly ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to give the floor to the representative of the Ministry of Finance. I want to make sure that we know how much the law will cost and when we can work on the preferences that we give to business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u191	Thank you. Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u192	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, this law is really so complicated and very subtle to use as a tool to stimulate business development. We all realize that today the situation is really critical of the core funds. We all realize that the degree of need for the replacement of those funds has reached a critical limit, and that this can no longer be done simply by repairing, that this should actually be a real replacement. We all realize that it's not science fiction that's the idea that tomorrow you can go and get a big loan to the bank under a realistic interest rate for a replacement. We all realize that this instrument will be very and very limited today. So the proposed tool for postponing payments can in principle be seen as a tool that will allow us at least to push the development process out of place and the process of replacing the core funds. However, there are a few serious “events” that need to be completed in the second reading. I will propose to support this bill on the basis, but there are risks that cannot be overlooked. The first and main risk is the official. Friends, the proposed editorial is suggested so that in fact business goes with its innovative project to an official and the official decides whether or not it will be an effective innovation project. The official makes an agreement with him on the suspension of payments, controls these points of the contract. We all realize that the official is the very subjective factor here. What should we do in this situation? Obviously, we can't go to just give everyone a loan tomorrow. Because it's clear that there's a different use of this kind of cost and we want to channel it only to the base funds of the second group, the third. Then the only way to reduce the subjective factor is to set very clear criteria. I'm bringing an analogy. This simplified tax system, who can use it? And there is a clear criterion: “ an entrepreneur who has the scope of implementation in the previous year.” is defined by law, “. which has the number of employees.” is defined by law. And if you have come and shown these criteria, you cannot be denied registration by a simplified system. We have to make an anthological instrument into this law: it doesn't have to be, I want to or I don't want to give you this delay. This must be determined by the clear criteria to be laid down in this law. What are these criteria?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u193	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u194	What are these criteria? “A” may be a criterion of attitude towards the relevant groups that the main funds are involved in. This right over here is the second group, the third group. This could be a cost criterion. This could be a quality criterion, which means what equipment we're willing to lend this to. We can write a few more clear criteria, but the basic condition -- the criteria have to be set out in the law and the criteria have to be applied automatically. If you bring the documents and prove that you're in line with these criteria, there can be no decision of an official that I don't like you for political reasons or for any reason, and I'll refuse you to make this deal. It's very serious, because, my friends, in recent years, medium and large businesses have suffered primarily from discretion and discretion born by selective application of legislation. Kim? He's an official. I want to -- I want to -- I want to -- I want to get the VAT back, I want to -- I don't want to get the VAT back. Let's step by step remove these options. I call on you, fellow honourable Members, not to be dominated by political thesis, because today, however some in power want to "spouse" others in power, tomorrow, they want to "spouse". And business suffers from it, and all of it suffers because discretion undermines the investment climate. And never will any business succeed in a country that has such discretion and has a negative image, from the point of view of investment climate. And we need investment, and we just need new forces and new energy that's going into the Ukrainian business. So I'm asking very seriously that the adoption of this law in the first reading is not an indulgence further, c is just a signal to the serious completion of this critical principle and this principle of granting such a loan. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u195	Dear colleagues. You've wasted your time, you've been told that time has passed, that's all! Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Is the reporter going to take the closing word? No, it's not. Please, the Ministry of Finance, what can you say about this bill? Microphone, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u196	It's not balanced in terms of revenue from the state budget. It should be noted that the bill actually proposes to increase the capitalisation of private companies on the basis of tax deductions, reducing the tax rate from 25 per cent to 20 per cent, for the acquisition of groups of major funds of the second and third groups by any entity. The bill also proposes to provide unlimited tax credit to all projects that are registered as investment and innovation. Taking into account the Investment and Innovation Act, such projects are involved, including the launch of any projects that envision a new design or actually a new brand, which is also noted in the findings of the Scientific Research Office. It is predicted that the purchases of savings can be purchased, including for material assets that are subject to industrial property items, including industrial design patents and trademarks. That's why we can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u197	Please, Lukyanov Vladislav, the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u198	My fellow nationals, I'd like to go to the entire session room and say it's one of the few bills that really improve the business conditions in our country. Moreover, the bill is designed to signal innovation, business development, job creation. There is, of course, a note. I thank you for the constructive discussion and for the constructive suggestions. Thank you all for taking an active part in the discussion. And I ask you to support this bill in the first reading, and for the second reading, I will be grateful for all the suggestions that will come. And we can improve this document as a law and improve the business situation. Thank you all for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office claims that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the relevant conclusions of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the activation of investment and innovation activities]] Registration number 2356. Please vote. [[13:35:41]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Now, if you'll have your attention. We should consider, honourable colleagues, 15 bills that deal with increasing anti-corruption in Ukraine. Two of them should be included in the agenda first. And we have here a question, dear colleagues, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has deferred the introduction of laws until April 1st. And at the same time today, we have 15 bills that were called upon, at first glance, to bring this issue in order not to implement a plan to combat corruption at the expense of ordinary average citizens in Ukraine, because the decision that we have made will prompt it. So there are a number of suggestions. First. The adoption of one bill is to postpone the introduction of the relevant law in order to ensure that the relevant committee drafts a harmonized bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted it in order to be effective and responsible in the authorities and in society for this huge disease, which, like rust, eats up Ukraine. So I'm going to put it to a vote like this. On the inclusion of the two bills, then we're going to consider, 15 of them, all of these bills. And the Supreme Council must make a decision. Or this is one bill that we have to include in the agenda and postpone the introduction of these laws. Are there voices or no voices? Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the inclusion of the bill in the agenda, and I would like to draw attention to the amendment to some of the Ukrainian legislation on preventing and combating corruption. [[Registration number 6130]] Authors. So I'm going to put in that bill, and let me put in two of these first ones that were registered. Authors: National Deputy Yuri Karmazin To be included in order. Dear colleagues, I would like to say once again, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on preventing and combating corruption. Registration number, once again, 6130. There is a group of national deputies, Rybek, Karmazin, Mishchenko, and Kaletnik. About getting into the daytime. [[13:38:59]] For 193 The decision is not supported. The other one's a bill. May I have your attention, please? Registration number 6057. On the amendment of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Policy Act. [[on the introduction of standards in accordance with Ukrainian law]] [[Registration number 6057]] Author: National Deputy of Ukraine Lavrinovich Alexander For inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[13:39:45]] For 219 The decision is not taken. And the third, honourable colleagues, Bill 6159 is a bill amending some of Ukraine's anti-corruption laws. The author is Ukrainian national deputy Novikov Oleg Volodymyrovich. It is proposed to postpone the introduction of relevant laws by 1 January 2011 or to adopt appropriate laws that we will later be speaking to you about. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:40:38]] For 229 The bill was included in the consideration. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Is there a Novikov national MP? I'll read the project. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I will read this bill. Please calm down. I'll read the bill. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to amend such laws of Ukraine. In paragraph 1 and paragraph 1 of the first paragraph of Chapter XIII, the “Ending Positions” of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Policy Act, replace the words and digits “01 April 2010” with the words “1 January 2011”. [[Information from the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, 2009, No. 45, article 651, as amended by the Ukrainian Act of 23 December 2009 No. 1787-6]] The other one. In article 28 of the “Ending Positions” of the Ukrainian Law on the Responsibility of Legal Persons for Corruption Offences”, replace the words and figures “01 April 2010” with the words “01 January 2011”. [[Information from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 2009, No. 45, article 692 with amendments to the Ukrainian Act of 23 December 2009 No. 1787-6]] And the last. This law takes effect from the day it is published.” Any other questions? I'm voting on the adoption of draft law, registration number 6159. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please report. Please, let's follow the procedure. Is there no objection? I would like to vote on the bill for a reduced procedure. Please. [[13:42:55]] For 225 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, your lord-in-chief! Novikov, People's Self-Defense Group. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to prevent and combat corruption. [[Registration number 6159]] The Supreme Council of Ukraine decided on December 23rd last year to postpone the entry into force of Ukraine's laws by April 1, 2010: “On principles for preventing and combating corruption”, “On the responsibility of legal persons for committing corruption offences”, “To amend some Ukrainian legislation on the responsibility for corruption.” Subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, the Ukrainian National Deputies, have submitted 16 bills to the Supreme Council to amend Ukraine's anti-corruption legislation. Regrettably, at present the only position on the individual provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption has not been reached. First of all, major contradictions touch upon the list of subjects responsible for corruption. There are also some contradictions regarding restrictions and anti - corruption. My bill proposes to postpone the introduction of Ukrainian laws: “On anti-corruption and anti-corruption principles” and “On the Responsibility of Legal Persons for Corruption Offences” from April 01, 2010 to January 01, 2011. Please support, accept as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u201	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please. Yes, National Deputy Kaletnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u202	This is a guaranteed performance, so please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u203	Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Supreme Council has been working on the preparation of an anticorruption package for over three years. At present, 15 amendments have been introduced. Almost all of them are processed by the committee; in the vast majority of them, each of them is mutually exclusive and distinct. The main and fundamental issues raised by the National Deputies, the public, the law enforcement authorities and the court are the inability to reconcile scientific and teaching activities, the allocation of members of district and district election committees to subjects of corruption responsibility, individuals, entrepreneurs, lawyers, notaries, doctors, teachers, and the financing of state and law enforcement bodies from charitable foundations. All of these 15 bills are designed to cool down and soften the anticorruption package that should come into effect on April 1, this year. Moreover, the separate positions of the anticorruption package at the Supreme Court are at the Constitutional Court. That is why the committee generalized the proposals and comments of the people’s deputies, prepared Bill 6130, which in the vast majority includes all the problems listed above. So in support of the proposal to postpone the entry into force of the anti-corruption package, I propose that the commission be given to the committee: to generalise, considering that we have not now voted or voted, we have not supported the inclusion in the agenda of the law of Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, and I propose that we assign all the 15 bills that we now have, we will work again, in general, a bill that takes into account all the proposals and observations that there are, and we will bring them to the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u204	Thank you. Smudge Grigory Evdzimovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u205	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Everyone knew that the 15 bills that were proposed in the agenda to consider any changes to the existing law that had not yet entered into force because the Supreme Council had deferred until April 1st, I think that's the right position for the Supreme Council to take today, I'm sure, a decision in part to postpone until January 1st. Why? Because, of course, this law that we passed at the time -- under pressure, not under pressure, not under emotion, not with emotion -- I think it's very unproductive, or it's not entirely fair to our population that works today or that wants to create some extra value in our society. They're also scientists, they're teachers, they're doctors, and so on. This is a very large group of people who are still working in Ukraine today. And the second question. You know, in the program, our political forces, and in the President's program, we have the creation of an organ, so to speak, anti-corruption. Let's really support this bill. During this time, we will work out a normal law, create a central body that will certainly take care of it. To this day, we have only one person who does not engage in corruption but who feels that they are only engaged in personal activities. for the personal pocket. So I ask you to support this bill as a whole and allow the committee to work out those logical, smart, sufficient measures and measures and to make changes to the law in force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u206	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u207	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies! It has been 12 years since I introduced the first project to that body, the National Bureau for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime. Twelve years, I'm stressing, and we're all fighting! Now for today's project. He's registered today and distributed here at the tables today, distributed to us today. Now for other projects. We prepared ourselves to take into account all the suggestions that we had made. And today, on our first reading, we have all united them into Bill 6130. Previous drafts have been called off. There's no 15, all the messes were thrown together. It's a mess. To scare off the 15th. They held public hearings, held discussions. And I want to say that Kaletnik Igor Grigorovich did it absolutely beautifully. Why? He invited all the people who offered proposals from the district inspectors, inspectors or teachers of schools, or the Ministry of Education and Science, the Attorney General's Office, the BSS, everyone was absolutely invited. And just so you know, with the adoption of these laws that we now have with you and now we want to go back to the unwelcome term, the UN Convention against Corruption and the European Council Criminal Convention against Corruption, which were adopted by the Supreme Council back in 2006. At the same time, Ukraine made a total of 8 and 17 out of 25 GRECO recommendations. In November, Ukraine reports on its commitments. This means that if we adopt this law, there will be no investment, no simplified visas -- nothing will happen. So I'd like you to think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u208	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u209	I'd like you to think about these arguments and go back to voting on Bill 6130, where it's perfectly complex to predict everything in the first reading. We'll be able to make all the proposals in the second reading. And I want to tell you that I called off my projects. I was convinced by colleagues from the Committee to Combat Organized Crime and Corruption because I do not work on this committee. But the danger facing Ukraine today must unite us all. We're just going to be considered papayas if we're going to put down the laws for a year. We need to move forward now. And here's a letter from the Ministry of Education, they don't object to acceptance, but their editorial that we've already taken into account, I thank Rebecca and the People's Deputy again, and the Kaletnik who have done everything possible for a civil consideration of these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u210	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u211	Dear colleagues! I want to say that, of course, there is no consistent, principled line of parliament and the factions that have offered us this solution today. Five months later. When we talked about transferring the term of validity of the law, everyone here swore that the next day we were making changes to the law, regulating the law and dividing it into two parts. The first part is private business associates who have nothing to do with government officials, all civil servants, from the President to the national MPs, leaving and leading a destructive principle of fighting corruption. What's going on today? We don't want to look at this law at all, not a word of it, and we say, let's do it again on January 1st, so let's defer to the presidency of Yanukovich for five years, the fight against corruption. Is this the approach of a higher legislature? I understand the logic, if we've now introduced the bill that Yuri Carmazin said, I'm also co-author, we've really called off seven bills, and here we've agreed that this bill should be headed. They voted in the first reading, and then they said that we were going to postpone until this bill became effective, and it could be a half month or a month, and today we didn't want to talk about fighting corruption at all, and they said we didn't need it, and we just automatically blew it away. I don't think it's a series line, so I'd ask Parliament to start discussing draft anti-corruption bills, and not waiting for the bureau to wake up, or the committee will, this is Parliament's task to determine the rules of the game and to stop the history of family corruption that is taking place, to stop the history of conflict of interest that is prescribed in the law, where wives or the mayor's daughters choose competitions, win competitions, and the mayor announces them, and then, when Secretary General Viktor Ivanovich Baloga says, and what, my wife is going through the city, that's why she won my brother or sister's contest. That is why such things need to be taken, not darkened up. So I would ask you not to end the term, but to go back to the law and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Using article 28, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, these are for those who are keenly interested. I want to generalize what was now said here, because this is a case where the law of April 1 became effective, which was delayed in order to correct it after it was voted on, when it was established, that it contains norms that are directed against most Ukrainian citizens. So instead of dealing with corruption, we've opened up a front for fighting all the people in the education sector, medicine, all the associates who work in private enterprise and many other issues. And now we've come up to the day that it was necessary for either one law to be passed on as a basis so that we can have a result by April 1. That's not what happened, so we have a choice, or we're going to term it, it's not going to mean, of course, that at this time, there's not going to be a bill that's actually going to be aimed at giving order to those who are in charge of public finances and who are performing functions on behalf of the state. That is exactly what I agree with Mikola Volodymyrovich, this law must be directed. And don't let him work consciously to encourage corruption in law enforcement. Therefore, Your Honor, the draft law introduced by People's MP Novikov, registration number 6159, is now being voted on. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on anti-corruption prevention]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:57:01]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Please show by factions: Region Party – 171, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 2, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 3, Communists – 27, Litvina Block – 19, non-fractional – 0. Dear colleagues! Please, one minute from the faction on the proposal for a solution, in fact, in principle for the future, so that we will deliberately approach the solution. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u213	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I thank you for not supporting this delay. We're in this situation right now, the Supreme Council is, if we don't adopt any law, we're going to have to work out laws where there are problems. They really do. If we adopt and put into consideration Bill 6130 worked by a committee working with the public, working with scientific institutions, which is only offered to be accepted in the first reading. And so we're still going to have a shortcut to work it out with all the complete factions, with all the suggestions that have been made. We keep a good face for Ukraine, investment appeal, visa issues, and everything else. And, including, we don't just let the law enforcement authorities do it. If that is not the case, from April 1, those laws that have problems will enter into force. Here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u214	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u215	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Dear colleagues! You know, the situation today reminds me of 2004-2005, when a repressive machine drove through the fates of tens of thousands of innocent teachers, doctors, educators, educators, local authorities just because someone with the wrong flag came to the rally. It was taken from work, criminal proceedings were instituted, and it was the same as 1937. Today, we deliberately launch a repressive vehicle, and this wheel of repression will fall again in the fates of tens or even hundreds of thousands of people. I don't understand! Or the representatives of BUT and Our Ukraine, the People's Self-Defense, do not understand, the wheel of repression will fall from one number to hundreds of thousands of innocent people! I repeat: teachers, medics, local authorities. There is an opportunity to postpone the conduct and prepare a normal bill. Aleksandar Vladimirovic said, in the parallel process, immediately engage in work on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u216	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, none of the speakers have denied that there are indeed great problems with the introduction of this law. In particular, these problems are also related to the issue on which I submitted my bill, which is the subject of restrictions on teaching for government officials in the system of improving the qualifications of staff. Imagine, for a moment, a system of improving the skills of local, government, councils all the way up. We have nowhere to prepare for serious government work, for public service. And so that in this system of things public officials who have a lot of experience should be taught, come and read lectures, and teach. You can't do that at work. When then? Because it's corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u218	Katerina Timofievno, please finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u219	Is that what this is about? He's demanding. Therefore, respectable colleagues, we must at least delay and draw up a law that would rule out these nonsensees involving teachers, doctors, and government officials who are highly qualified.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u220	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u221	Thank you. Martinyuk. The Communist faction. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues, I don't think anyone will suspect that Martinyuk is corrupt and is protecting the corrupt. Unfortunately, when we passed a good law, we did as we always did -- we wanted it as good as possible, and it got worse. Those of you who have read this law know that, along with the measures that we wanted to do for the benefit of the State, we have done for the evil of the vast mass of our people who have been unjustifiably counted as corrupt. They're doctors because they don't have the right to be compatible, they're teachers because they don't have the right to be compatible, they're teachers who work in science or higher education. What's more, we've done here and the members of the district election boards, we've also banned it. So let's go back to the vote. And I'm asking you, dear fellows, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u222	Adam Ivanovich asked to return to the vote and finish the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u223	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u224	But everyone needs a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u225	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u226	I'm sorry, please pass the word to Mishchenk Sergey Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u227	Please, Sergey Grigorovich Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u228	Thank you. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, we only mention the fight against corruption when it comes to elections. When the elections are over, we forget about our promises and postpone them in different ways, at different times. Obviously, if we went back to that vote when we voted on those three bills, then you'd understand that when I talked for three hours about what was impossible, 300 amendments of mine were not accepted, which you're talking about right now, it's called the process of fighting corruption. How many tasks would it not give to the committee, to the MPs that it would be a single bill is nowhere. Because if you want to shut down the process, appoint a group to make a joint bill. Alexander Volodymyrovich, may I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u229	Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u230	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. And now, essentially. If we accept that there are 15 bills, there are 18 bills. All the people who knew this issue had passed the bill. 18! If you choose one bill that you can actually cancel, but not until 1 January, per month, for half a month, for two months. But I'm going to read you a conclusion on a bill that we didn't just adopt that the committee head reported on. Science-expert management. “At the same time, if a decision is taken by Parliament on the possibility of adopting only one bill to amend anti-corruption legislation, the General Directorate recommends that Bill No. 5508 of March 02, 2009 be given precedence.” So there are two ways out. Whether to go back to the vote and, please, by January 01, then we're talking about fighting corruption; whether we're doing what one bill is based on and then we're cancelling.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u231	Dear colleagues! I'll have everyone hear it. Sergey Grigorovich concluded by suggesting that the first reading should be based on Bill No. 5508 and at the same time cancel the validity of the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Did I say it right? But in order for us to follow logic, we have to first make a decision on oblivion and then adopt the project. Dear colleagues, I am voting on Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's proposal to return to the vote under Bill 6159. Then we vote back to two others: 6130, which was proposed, and 5508. Please be sure, Bill 6159. I'm betting on a motion for a return to take a decision on it. [[14:07:18]] For 229 Decision taken. We have a plenary meeting which has been resumed for 15 minutes before the question is concluded, so that we do not leave it. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return to the consideration of Bill 6130. I'd like to make a statement. Return to the vote on Project 6130. [[2:07:55]] For 297 Decision taken. And so we can go back to voting on Project 5508. I'd like to make a statement. One second, please stop voting. Oh, I'm sorry, because I was absent in the session room at that time, he wasn't looking, he wasn't looking. So we can just go back to 6130. Dear colleagues, we've come back to the definition of making decisions on two projects. I'm betting on voting for adoption as a whole as a bill of amendment to some of Ukraine's anti-corruption laws, it's about snorkeling. [[Registration number 6159]] I'd like to make a statement. [[2:08:57]] For 217 [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg Alexanderovich, what's up? Turn on the microphone of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u232	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. I think there's no doubt that I'm telling the truth, I didn't have a card. That's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-10-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, the Council system is asking for one minute to reload where the malfunctions occurred. Dear colleagues, the "Council" system is ready to work. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, the "Council" system is ready to work so that we do not have any misunderstandings. I am voting on the whole draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent corruption. [[Registration number 6159]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:11:53]] For 236 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, as the debate and voting have already been held on the basis of draft law registration number 6130: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on prevention and counter-corruption. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:12:30.]] For 328 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have thus approved a decision to postpone until the end of the year of the law that was passed. And we passed Bill 6130 in the first reading. And when it is accepted as a whole, from that day on it will work, for the halt applied to another law that was previously approved. This is the answer to a question that has now been asked by many deputies, how the process will continue. This does not mean that we will not make decisions by the end of the year. Dear colleagues, I declare this morning's plenary session closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. the Supreme Council of Ukraine
