ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[16:01:08]] Registered -409 There are 409 National Deputies cards registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. We're looking at a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar. [[concerning the declaration of sugar residues]] [[Registration number 6380]] It's a government bill. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:01:54]] For-164 Decision taken. Please, Sukhomlin Alexander Anatoliyovich, Deputy Minister of Economics. Be prepared by the Perstenko Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u2	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, dear Adam Ivanovich! Good afternoon, national deputies! Today, we are proposing from the government the Ukrainian Act of Amendment to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar. The essence of the law. Over the past few years, the internal market has seen significant price fluctuations in sugar, which, on the one hand, has had a negative impact on inflation processes and has resulted in additional population costs when purchasing this socially significant product. On the other hand, it is not possible for the producers of beet and sugar to plan their manufacturing activities. One of the main factors affecting the volatility of the price situation is the lack of reliable information about available sugar residues that inhibits the rapid adoption of management decisions. In addition, the lack of information leads to a variety of speculations that occasionally occur in the media about possible sugar deficits, resulting in an unwarranted increase in prices. For the purpose of solving the above-mentioned problem, a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar is designed to introduce a mechanism for the mandatory declaration of residues of sugar by business entities, irrespective of the form of ownership and the measure of responsibility for breaching this rule. I will briefly say that the bill has been public debated and is supported by the National Association of Sugars of Ukraine “Ukratsukor”. At a meeting of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations on September 14th, the bill was recommended to be adopted as a basis. There is also the conclusion of the Chief Executive, generalizing the outcome of the review, that in the first reading a bill can be adopted as a basis. Therefore, I ask the honourable national deputies to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u3	Thank you. Sit down, Alexander Anatolyovich. Please, from the Perstenko Marina Volodymyrna Committee. No questions asked. Short-term procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar, of 12 May 2010, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[concerning the declaration of sugar residues]] [[Registration number 6380]] The need to submit a bill is caused by the periodic instability in the sugar market caused by the lack of reliable information on available sugar residues, which facilitates the adoption of operational decisions for effective regulation. The bill provides for the introduction of a mechanism for the declaration of residues of sugar by subjects of entrepreneurial activity, regardless of the form of ownership and the responsibility for breaching the requirements of the declaration. It is also determined that in the event of a failure or a timely submission of a declaration on the amount of sugar held by an enterprise entity, or in the declaration of incomplete or unreliable data by an enterprise entity, a fine of 500 untaxed minimum citizens’ income is imposed. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, suggests that the first reading of the bill may be adopted as a basis. Considering that the adoption of the bill will allow for reliable information on sugar residues, which will increase the efficiency of decisions on sugar market regulation and contribute to the projected development of the price situation, the committee proposes a bill to be based on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u5	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Please, two for, two for against. There's no second reading, so. Please, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u6	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. We listened very carefully to the reporters, especially Minister of Economics Alexander Anatoliyevich Sukhomlin, albeit briefly, but made it clear that the bill was vital for Ukraine. First, if we vote, and this law enters into force, it will be a great aid for Ukraine's food security, because we have, in fact, today balanced food security, and it is now extremely, I would say, in the last five years, that the previous government did not do something that did not deal with the stability of Ukraine's food security, it did everything for it, it didn't control, it didn't do anything, and it not only destroyed the financial institutions in the country and the economy, it put Ukraine in such a dangerous situation where no government, no control authorities did anything about it. Therefore, I ask the honourable national deputies to be supported, and this bill, indeed, will benefit the great Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u7	Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u8	I ask you to pass the word to Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u9	Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u10	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, how are we different from Europe and the whole civilized world? What are some specific ways of working in the economy, in trade, in social protection? Nowhere in the world does anyone ask who has the leftovers. There are trade laws, economic laws, pricing laws, and this kind of intervention by the state shows that we remain the kind of juice that wants to go into the citizen's pocket, to regulate how much sugar he eats, how much more. And let's put in the same rules today to declare the remnants of the Greeks, because today it's not enough. Let's enter the declaration of other products. Where are we going, I'd like to ask? I think it would have been better if we had offered a system to stimulate the production of sugar in Ukraine, to encourage farmers and other farmers who work on the ground to sow so that there would be a selection of Ukrainian beet trees, so that we could try to produce not only sugar that would have to be declared, but that we would know clearly that we have supplies so that we wouldn't buy them in Belarusians that grow enough crops on sand in swamps. So today Ukraine’s agriculture needs to be stimulated, not controlled, every move of every barrel that it has come to, where it has gone. So in my opinion, the proposed system of action by the Ministry of Economics, which is strongly supported by critics of past regimes, who can't possibly realize that you've been in power for a year now, has led to a pen that today is not just Greek, sugar, there will soon be no beetroot, potatoes and all. So take on a little responsibility for this year’s work, and there is no such thing as an owl’s law to put into the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Who insists on the performance? None. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of the production and implementation of sugar. [[concerning the declaration of sugar residues]] Please vote. [[16:10:51]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the provision of credit history bureaus from the State Register of Taxpayers and other obligatory payments is being announced. [[Registration number 6483]] Reporter: Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets, Volga Vasil Aleksandrovich Correspondent is the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. There is a suggestion to deal with this issue in a simplified way. [[16:11:44]] For 202 Decision taken. Vassil Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u12	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I present to you the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the provision of credit history bureaus from the State Register of Individual Taxpayers and other obligatory payments, developed in accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Establishment and around of Credit History. The bill refers to millions of Ukrainian citizens who form credit stories and credit history bureau users. In accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Organization of the Forming and around of Credit History, which took effect on 26 January 2006, one source of credit history formation is the information of state records that credit history bureaus have the right to obtain on contractual principles. An analysis of the laws of Ukraine on the organization and circulation of credit history and the Law on State Taxation in Ukraine, the Law on the State Register of Individuals – Taxpayers and Other Compulsory Payments, shows that the provision of information from the State Register, which is owned by the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, does not appear to be possible without amending the laws of Ukraine: “For the State Tax Service in Ukraine”, “On the State Register of Natural Persons – Taxpayers and Other Compulsory Payments”. The main purpose of your bill is to ensure the implementation of article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on the organisation of the formation and circulation of credit history by removing the conflict of rules of the above-mentioned laws on the right of credit history bureaux to obtain information from the State Register of Natural Persons - taxpayers and other compulsory payments. I would like to point out that the adoption of the proposed draft law will allow the Bureau of Credit History to receive information from the authorities of the State Tax Service of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u13	Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u14	on the authenticity of the identity number of the natural person, the taxpayer and other compulsory payments, will determine the order of transmission of information from the state registers, as well as the size of the pay for this and other conditions. The adoption of the aforementioned draft Ukrainian law will, firstly, allow for improvements in the legislative framework, as it will create the possibility for the Cabinet of Ministers to adopt procedures for the transmission of information from State registers, as well as the size of payments for this and other conditions; secondly, it will ensure the proper conditions for the formation of credit stories, since it will ensure the integrity, objectivity, completeness and reliability of information that consists of credit history, regularity and continuity of information in credit history; thirdly, it will increase the level of confidence of credit history users and entities in credit history bureaux; and lastly: it will create an effective anti-fraud mechanism in the financial and credit sector using counterfeit identification numbers that meet the interests of the State, business, citizens of Ukraine. Please support the bill presented and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u15	Thank you. From the committee, please, who will be speaking? Yes, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. Please sign up, your honors, to discuss this matter. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u16	I have only one question for this bill: how will it make people feel who for religious reasons refuse to accept identification numbers? Is this matter resolved in the bill and what will it look like?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u17	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u18	So, yes, I would like to understand how people who for religious reasons refuse to accept identification numbers will feel? This is the only question that exists for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u19	Yes, from the non-fractional, please, Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! As far as I'm concerned, a perfectly correct bill needs it, really, to be supported and finally needed to complement what it is. Or contrasting what my colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine, has just said, I want to say that we should finally make a clear criminal responsibility for individuals. Those who refuse to carry out their duty to the State by false religious beliefs because it is a morbidity that tries to impose, which is not actually supported by official church bodies. I want to remind you that Alexei, the late patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, was very clear about this, that there is no relation of the church to these conjectures, that it is openly, to my understanding, to the Mafia absolutely things. In this regard, then, it is necessary, in parallel with this document that we will accept, to impose a very clear responsibility on those who try to run their dirty equipment by deceiving people and forcing them not to take on themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u21	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u22	responsibility to the State through the drafting of the relevant documents. Therefore, we support this bill as the first point on the road to meeting their financial obligations, and appropriate monitoring should be done in full, not with any strange exceptions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u23	Thank you. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u24	I wouldn't talk like that anymore about equipment, mafia structures. Please leave this morning at the Supreme Council of Ukraine were simple average believers who have absolutely nothing in their souls. And we know that it is the believers, the ranks of believers, that I am addressing this question. Vasil Alexandrovich, I would like to ask you to answer, because 10 years ago the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by almost constitutional majority, amended the Ukrainian Law, which allowed believers to have an alternative. And it really was, and the stamp was in the passports. It's not about oligarchs, it's not about people who have very great wealth, it's about people who, by their religious preferences, really require us to respect human rights. I would also like to receive this answer from you, Vasile Alexandrovich, as we will refer to this category of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's, if you don't mind, take a step away from the Rules. Vassil Alexanderovich, for this matter, please have a microphone, attitude towards identification codes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u26	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! I ask you to look very carefully at this bill. The question is that it just allows you to take identification numbers, information about identification numbers that are already given to the tax administration. If a person did not give a tax administration, because of religious preferences he did not give his identification number, well, that is, did not assign this number to himself, did not consent to its assignment. Then she won't be brought here. This in no way affects the rights of religious, right conscience, in one word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the granting of credit history bureaux, information from the State Register of Individual Taxpayers and other compulsory payments. [[Registration number 6483]] Please vote. [[16:21:15]] For 237 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u28	We have no motives, dear colleagues. Please, Bondik's microphone, but before that, look at the rules, there's no motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u29	Yes, I'm sorry, Volodymira Mikolayovich. In fact, it's a reduced procedure. Mikhailovich, yes, colleagues are correcting. There is no Motivation for the abbreviated procedure. But in the Supreme Council, this is already the property of the Supreme Council, there's a bill on the Bureau of Credit History that I've submitted. This bill, which was passed by the distinguished representative of Vasil Volga, really, when Minust transferred the function of total registration to the Securities Commission, which is what the reporter was now giving us, they forgot the rules of direct action, the Constitution. That is, according to the Constitution, all information about a person should be collected even by fiscal authorities, that is, by the consent of a person. And now the commission is offering us to do. This bill, it was misreported. Why? Because it's only directed at one thing so that no false passports can get any information from the Bureau of Credit History. You know, people now sometimes get credit for fake passports, that's how they do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the registration of the manufacturer’s declaration of conformity (registration number 6711) has been announced for consideration. The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[16:23:11]] For 211 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economy Alexander Anatoliyovich Sukhomlin. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of the Royal Natalia Jurijovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u31	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws regarding the registration of a manufacturer's declaration of conformity. The essence of the bill. The draft Ukrainian law amends, firstly, the Ukrainian Act on Standards, Technical Rules and Conformity Assessment Procedures, which provides for the cancellation of the registration obligation by the manufacturer or the person empowered by him to declare the conformity of the product. In view of the cancellation of the registration of the declaration, it is envisaged that the laws of Ukraine should be repealed with regard to the need for the identification of these registration numbers of the declaration of conformity in the documents according to which the relevant product is transferred and for the responsibility of the operators for the implementation of the product without any indication in the accompanying documents of the registration numbers of the declaration. The need to cancel the registration of declarations of conformity is due to the fact that such registration is, firstly, unnecessary, secondly, to the unwarranted cost of time and the costs of the operators when entering the product into circulation. On June 15, 2010, the Supreme Council adopted, on its first reading, a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending article 32 on standards, technical regulations. about cancelling. At the same time, we want to say that it was not taken into account that the registration numbers in the overhead documents were stored. That is why he is incomplete. I also want to talk about the evaluation. It was supported by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, in the absence of time, I will say that there were valid observations and, above all, that the word “removal” should be in the title. Given that the draft law is designed to remove unwarranted barriers to the development of entrepreneurial activities and the introduction of national legislation in the field of technical regulation in accordance with European legislation, please accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u32	Have a seat, please. From the committee, please. Natalia Yuriovna, head of the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u33	Dear colleagues! And respectable Vladimir Mikhailovich! Today we are submitting to Parliament Bill 6711 amending certain Ukrainian laws on the registration of producer declarations of conformity. As part of its commitments to join the WTO, Ukraine undertook to accept the manufacturer's declarations as widely as possible without the requirement of registration or confirmation by the Ukrainian authorities with regard to the relevant technical regulations. This is a European practice that is widely disseminated and so in accordance with European technical regulation legislation, first of all, the directives of the new approach do not provide for the registration of declarations in public bodies. According to the manufacturer's own directive, it is for its own responsibility to establish a declaration of conformity of products and requirements and retains the product documents in the package. However, a declaration is made only when the supervisory authorities have reason to request it. The manufacturer has the primary responsibility to label the product. Ukrainian legislation does not yet propose such an approach. The bill proposes to amend the law on consumer protection and the law on confirmation of conformity. It is proposed that the requirements of Ukrainian legislation should be deleted and the registration numbers of declarations should be indicated in the accompanying documents. In general, the Committee supports such an initiative, in turn, to improve entrepreneurship in the country, to improve investment attractiveness, to create conditions to increase output and the mass of any other nuances. That is, in principle, not a bad cosmetic measure, which reduces the number of papers, the time that entrepreneurs spend today in producing new products, producing competitive products and competing in the internal market. The only thing that is a little indignant to the committee is that we are starting again, the Supreme Council, to consider the same bills in several readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u34	Let us finish the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u35	Consideration of the same bills at different stages of consideration and the problem is that they cannot share the authorship. Dear colleagues, as a representative of the opposition, I do not insist on authorship, but as representatives of the committee we do not want to spend time every time considering the same bills in different readings. I wish to recall that Bill 6234, which was submitted on 15 June 2010, is now in preparation for second reading, has been adopted for the first time. But the author of the bill is, unfortunately, the Royal. Therefore, Kabmin submits the same bill; it is now under review on first reading. Once again, we take time and, in principle, time from considering more important laws. Committee decision: Of course, to support this bill as a basis, it is necessary but wastes time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Paul Sulkowski, microphone, please, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u37	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. You know, the deputy minister has just made it clear that it's a very necessary bill to make it easier for manufacturers, to destroy this process, and that manufacturers actually do overproduction. So after the deputy minister from the committee, the opposition comes out and tells us that these projects were already being submitted to them and so on and so forth. That's not true and that's not true. You've been filing projects and stretching for the last five years your orange team led by Julia Timoshenko. You passed and passed such laws that it was not convenient for manufacturers to produce, but only to walk for years and struggle to collect those papers in order to agree and proceed to production. And that is why today we do not need to “hang the lag” from the opposition here in Parliament and the producers in Ukraine, not to be hanged, but to be honest about the proposals of today's government and to support the Ministry of Economics, where today the Deputy Minister has made a clear report. And I think this is really going to help manufacturers, not in words, but in action. And you don't have to do the manufacturer's work today, there's enough opposition here and there, enough that you've spent five years populism in the parliamentary rostrum and all over Ukraine. And so I urge you to vote, to less listen to these empty words. This law will really benefit not only producers but Ukraine as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u38	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u39	Please pass the word to Odarchen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u40	Odarchenka's microphone, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you very carefully to refer to this bill. As our representative of the Cabinet of Ministers rightly said, this is what this bill says about the cancellation of the registration of conformity. So what are we going to have today? We're going to have a lot of products that we don't know about. We're going to think it's sausage, and it's essentially going to be something like sausage or bread. Dear colleagues, now that tariffs are rising, now that gas tariffs are rising, we see a serious budget deficit, which is causing a reduction in all population needs. If we accept this bill, we'll see on the benches a whole lot of cheap non-use that will be imported from abroad or produced in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Ukraine is not only made up of producers but also of consumers, ordinary citizens of Ukraine. Today, in fact, if we want to know about the statistics on the disease of children, we can say that every other child is sick because they can't digest these consumer products that are in stores. In fact, a woman’s birth as a natural way is an exotic thing. This law should not be adopted in fact, leading to serious illness, serious abuse of the population. I personally call for a vote against the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u42	Jaroslav Jojik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u43	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. By supporting the overall desire to introduce more simplified market access, I suggest that we do so in a reasonable order. The registration of the declaration is made in the absence of mutual recognition agreements between Ukraine and importing States. The purpose of the registration is to verify that the manufacturer-provider has documented evidence that the product complies with its requirements. Including the existence of production test reports, carried out in the competent laboratories with all the mandatory indicators of conformity of production with the technical regulations developed by the European Union directives. Cancelling the registration of declarations of conformity without any conditions will create the possibility of entering the internal market in Ukraine of production without any State control, including potentially dangerous products of both import and domestic production. Directives are for production and conformity assessment procedures that ensure the free movement of goods produced in EU countries, including mutual recognition agreements from conformity assessment. A separate order has been established for the production of third countries. In addition, a robust market control system, security and quality of production has been introduced in EU countries. Despite the entire market, Ukrainian production is not allowed without confirmation of its compliance with European directives. So I propose, leaving the need to support the domestic producer and to protect consumers, to adopt or enforce this law only after the adoption and implementation of Ukraine's laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u44	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u45	There is a proposal to put this law into effect only after the introduction of the Market Surveillance and Control Act, which prevents circulation in Ukraine of dangerous products. I want to remind you, this week we've been looking at these bills, but their fate is still unclear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Please. Adam Ivanovich, what's his last name? National Deputy Perestenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u47	Thank you. The cancellation of the declaration of conformity provided for in this bill will create conditions for the entry into circulation of products in the domestic market of Ukraine without any State control, including potentially dangerous products of both import and domestic production. The adoption of such a bill, without the prior introduction of a public market control and supervision system in accordance with European and international requirements, would create a catastrophic situation for a domestic producer as a result of unfair competition by importers. There will also be favourable conditions for importing dangerous, falsified, inefficient products of unknown origin into Ukraine at dumped prices that will adversely affect the economy of domestic enterprises producing similar products. The result will inevitably be damage to the life and health of ordinary Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u48	Complete your opinion, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u49	They're going to eat this product. Such a state of affairs would not correspond to European or international practice. To ensure the support of a domestic producer and the protection of the life and health of consumers, this bill is now untimely and does not suit national interests. Its adoption should be preceded by the adoption and implementation of a series of Ukrainian laws, namely, State market surveillance, the appropriateness for defective production, the general safety, the approval and implementation of technical regulations by the government and the creation of an effective market surveillance model. In this regard, I ask you, dear colleagues, do not support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. From the “regions ” there has already been a performance. That's it. Dear colleagues, I propose to the vote the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the registration of the manufacturer's declaration of conformity. [[Registration number 6711]] Please vote. [[16:38:50]] For 224 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion for a return to the question, a return to the question. [[16:39:16]] For 221 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to re-read the draft law. [[Registration number 6711]] Let's do it again. [[16:39:44]] For 244 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act on the accelerated review of regulatory acts adopted by authorities and officials of local self-government. [[Registration number 7030]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:40:20]] For 211 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Trelyaków Sergey Ivanovich. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of the Royal Natalia Jurijovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u51	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, drafting a bill based on the need to anchor on a legislative level qualitatively new approaches to regulating local self-government. The analysis by the host body of the local self-governance bodies of the National Regulatory Policy Act shows that it is not or improper to comply with its requirements, in particular with regard to the review of its own regular acts on compliance with the principles of national regulatory policy. It is envisaged to establish legal and organizational principles for the accelerated review of regulatory acts adopted by authorities and officials of local self - government regarding their compliance with the principles of national regulatory policy in the field of economic activity. The bill is designed to ensure that these principles are respected by local authorities. The bill establishes that all regulatory acts adopted by the authorities and officials of local self-government at the time of entry into force of this law shall be subject to an expedited review in accordance with the 90-day period established by law. Steps of this review are clearly defined four steps: the compilation of the list of regulatory acts, the analysis of them, the analysis of the preparation of proposals, the generalization and the monitoring of the results of the analysis of the relevant regulatory acts. Thus, an expedited review results in the submission, within 90 days, of copies of amendments, recognitions of those that have become invalid or invalidated, by officials of local self-government who are specially authorized by the central executive authority on matters of national regulatory policy. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the relevant local authorities of the state in the 120-day period, provide the specially authorized authority with information on the work carried out. Carrying out local self - government requirements of this law as part of an accelerated review.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u52	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u53	This will reduce the pressure on economic operators and simplify the procedures for national regulation of economic activity and the economic activities themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u54	Thank you. Have a seat, please. In view of the fact that honourable colleagues from the deputies spoke of the fact that the Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship was on the move, the deputy reported in his place, according to a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukraine, Brodsky. There's a document. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich! A bill has been introduced to expedite the revision of regulatory acts adopted by local authorities and officials. [[Number 7030]] Parliament held parliamentary hearings yesterday on “Economic reforms: realities and expectations of Ukrainian business”. The question of the principles of State regulatory policy was also raised. We have the principle of expediency, adequacy, efficiency, balance, predictability. Regrettably, entrepreneurs have today assessed economic and regulatory policies and inadequate and not very effective, not very balanced, not very predictable. And the result of these decisions is that the number of regulatory acts in our country is increasing by a dozen times every year, especially the regulatory acts that local governments make. Unfortunately, however, we are still not considering Bill 7033, which provides that local governments should also be subject to the Regulatory Policy Act. And then we wouldn't be adopting a bill with you today, which is completely technical, which in a large way duplicates the functions of the Goskom Entrepreneurship. The work of the State Enterprise should harmonize all regulatory acts and no regulatory act should proceed without their harmonization. What do we do? First, we agreed on a huge number of regulatory acts, and then we start to review the whole machine, which doubles twice the same function, and it's just a waste of time. You don't have to issue those regulatory acts that then have a negative effect on business. That is why we understand the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u56	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u57	We understand the need to adopt this bill because there has already been so many acts that are not working and that are not working, and they need to be radically reviewed. The Committee recommends that the 7030 be adopted as a basis, but for the future we propose to resolve these nuances in stable legislation and not to allow ourselves to do the same work twice and to be literate. The Committee is therefore prepared, together with the State Enterprise, to finalize the Regulatory Policy Act and then to ensure that there are no exceptions to the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u58	Thank you. Have a seat, please. May we vote, Your Honor? Is there a show you want? Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Xenia Leapina, microphone, please. Then Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u59	Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, in fact, it's a very important law. It has long consequences, but it also has a very clear short assignment. Now we need to look at the accumulated amount of various regulatory acts that make our environment not transparent and unclear. All of this needs to be reviewed, renegotiated, and optimized by regulations that are particularly at the level of local councils. It's true. We have a strange painting today. Local councils want to, they're implementing laws on the principles of state regulatory policy, and they don't want to, they don't. How can it be in a state where the law is enforced as it pleases? And that's actually insane. Therefore, this law must be adopted on a basis and taken seriously enough to really bring about the consequences that we expect of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u60	Andrew Pavlovsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u61	Andrey Pavlovski, the “Fatherland” party. Please give the floor to Deputy Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u62	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u63	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Of course, the problem of issuing regulatory acts by local authorities is very important. Everyone in Kiev remembers the problem of setting tariffs. Various readings were available. The city council believes that they have introduced tariffs or city administrations. We are told by the Antimonopoly Committee that something is not in agreement, and so on. It is therefore necessary to establish in the State a clear order of acceptance of these documents. And it would certainly be much better if the special divisions of the committee headed by Mr. Brodsky were followed in the design phase of these bills. Because we have thousands of bills that are adopted by the councils, only units that are regulatory, everything else is land distribution, finance, property, etc., and so on, what the councils are doing very successfully today, instead of creating some acts of local importance that would regulate citizens' behaviour in the territory, the rules of good governance, the rules of use of natural resources, the protection zones, the green zones and so on. Unfortunately, this is not what the council does. When they do, it is only for lobbying purposes for individual customers that they need to carry out. It would therefore be important for this document to be fully discussed, including with the participation of the Association of Ukrainian Cities and other collective self - government bodies that are now in Ukraine. And I wouldn't rush to accept it today in the final, maybe there, in the first reading, to accept it and to work very seriously, because it depends on the order of life itself in the territory of Ukraine, in the territory of individual self-government organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, no one insists on the right? I would like to vote on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of the draft Act on the accelerated review of regulatory acts adopted by the authorities and officials of local self-government. Please vote. [[16:50:18]] For 224 [[B in m in s a l in]] One more time, huh? At the request of the national deputies, I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft law (register No. 7030). [[16:50:49]] For 245 We're back. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act on the Accelerated Review of Regulatory Acts, adopted by the authorities and officials of local self-government. Please vote. [[16:51:20]] For 244 Decision taken. I'm announcing a draft law on the preparation and implementation of investment projects based on the "one window" principle. [[Registration number 7032]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[16:51:55]] For 211 Decision taken. The reporter is the head of the State Agency for Investment and Development, Taran Alexander Volodymyrovich. The Coroner is the head of the Royal Natalia Yuriovna Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u65	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the modern economic situation in our country and the task of restoring its economic growth require the attention of the public authorities to solve the problems that arise in investment processes. In connection with this President of Ukraine and the 2010-14 Economic Reform Programme, developed by the Economic Reform Committee of the President of Ukraine, it is defined as one of the priorities in the area of investment participation and enterprise development in the creation of a single investment window to which the interaction with the authorities will be placed in the interests of investors, particularly those that implement innovative infrastructure projects with licenses, permits, consents, land issues, etc. It is for the purpose of solving this task that a bill has been submitted to your consideration, which takes into account the best experience of European and other countries in implementing the single investment window principle with a view to maximizing the simplification of the investment activity process. In accordance with the draft law, regional investment and development centres, which now exist in all the regional centres of Ukraine, will be able to provide assistance in the preparation and implementation of investment projects. This assistance will be provided on a free basis by working with centres, licensing agencies, expert organizations, local executives, and local authorities. In addition, regional centres are obliged to organize, at the investor's request, the preparation of investment projects, the development of design, design and cost-effective technical documentation, which is very important, because there is currently no organization of any kind at the state level that results from the existence of many brilliant ideas of extremely low quality investment projects. At the same time, the bill provides for the right and the right to use, not the obligation, of an investment entity.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u66	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u67	the services of “one window”. It should also be pointed out that the “one window ” mechanism does not duplicate but qualitatively complements the existing system of permit centres. We believe that the adoption of the bill will not allow words to create a mechanism for quality investor service. Please adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on the preparation and implementation of investment projects on the basis of the “one window” principle and the procedure for adopting the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u68	Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Royal Natalia Jurijovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich! For our consideration, a draft Ukrainian Law on the preparation and implementation of single-window investment projects is being tabled. The single window principle is an effective mechanism to improve the situation in this area. [[No. 7032]] In general, the system proposed by the document is supported by the Committee. However, despite the importance and relevance of the topic, the document was submitted to the Committee in a fairly harsh manner. I will bring some very serious shortcomings. For example, the bill does not mention an exhaustive list of documents received by a potential investor when addressed to an authorized authority. We have already had a bitter experience with such legislation. Once the official has been given the opportunity to request any additional documents, he will take this opportunity. So this rule can be regarded as potentially corrupt. Another potentially corrupt rule is the separation of services for the preparation and implementation of investment projects into administrative projects, i.e. those provided by government and local government authorities, and those provided by enterprises and organizations. Such rules produce a number of intermediaries, which can undoubtedly benefit from the investment project. In addition, it is possible that private enterprises will be closely linked to State bodies. This approach in attracting investors is unlikely to increase the investment itself and will serve as a single enrichment method for officials. These are just two of the brightest standards we've ever set. There is no doubt that the country needs a system that will make it easier to attract investment today. Particularly given that in the first six months of 2010, Ukraine received only half a billion foreign investments, almost 2.5 times less than in 2009. However, investments from Europe have decreased 14 times. These numbers speak for themselves. It's an idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u70	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u71	The idea of a single window is undoubtedly justified, necessary. But the way we see it today can produce a reverse result. We also already have a rule in Ukrainian laws on a single window, which does not work, unfortunately. And entrepreneurs today do not fully benefit from it because administrative barriers have been put in place. So our job is not to make a classic mistake when good things go wrong and then absolutely reverse the consequences. The Committee therefore proposes to poison Bill No. 7032 for the author's finalization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs will be placed on the information board. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u73	Dear friends, of course, the practice that we have come up with in recent times when more is said to be “one window” and nothing has been done about it, unfortunately, shows that this bill, too, if it is as proposed today, approved without detail, it plays the same role. We're just going to give a signal to a society that won't have any effect. There is a world experience, including Chile and some other countries, Georgia, where this legislation has been carefully developed. There you won't know who applied for an investment, you won't know anything at all -- it's all ammoniumated, and no one there can bribe anyone, as on the part of the giver, as on the part of the giver, as on the part of the giver, as on the part of the taker. Because it comes with documents that need to be developed and refined in organs that can't be bribed. They're anonymous and then they come to whoever invited them. A person pays a special fee for such a development and then this investment is really not burdened with huge bribes. Today, we have a great many years of practice in Ukraine, when any investment runs into bribes and disappears. Kiev has been talking for two decades about the need to build a garbage treatment plant at the current level. This has been taken by all without exception, and none of them have been able to do anything, because those services that agree to these projects, as they say, will “cut” such sums from which the ears will turn and people will come back. So, here's Natalia Royal's proposal that this bill should be sent for completion in the first reading is absolutely in line with the state of this bill and the state of our society, which is, unfortunately, so consumed by corruption that is nowhere else. So I support that offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u74	Xenia Leapina, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u75	Thank you. Xenya Lapina, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, not every slogan matches the content of what we are offered. In fact, they're offering us a completely different way than they're trying to show us. What's the matter? Today and so, the Free System Act already provides for the creation of a “one window” to obtain permits from anyone, particularly investors, though foreign, although Ukrainian, although Ukrainian small business, although large oligarchs. It's all supposed to be a "one window" created on the basis of local authorities. This is very important, local authorities. Yeah, it doesn't work very well. Well, it's still up to the local authorities. If the local authority wants to set up the work, it has this possibility and is actually committed. Sadly, though, not everyone wants to. Yet, what are we offered? And we are offered, apart from a single window, one to create some so-called "single windows". First of all, they're not alone anymore, they're second, third, or I don't know which. Third, who's going to make them? And the agency that's going to make these investments is going to want to create them. So actually, this agency today doesn't know just what to do, it just doesn't have streams, it doesn't have anything to make money on, it comes out. They are offering such suggestions. In our view, this is completely inappropriate and inappropriate today. Today we need to improve the creation of the “one window” that is truly the only one. Otherwise we'll just, sorry, make the whole world laugh. The whole world will soon laugh at our “only windows” that we will cover the country, and they will all be unworkable and only bribed brothers. Why would you do that? In my opinion, we have to seriously, if the agency wants to improve the Law on the Allowance System, see where we can make this mechanism more intensive, how we can help the local authorities finally understand that they are obliged to create these.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u76	Please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u77	So I propose not to support this law, but to work properly on the Law on the Allowance System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u78	Please, Mikhail Chechtov, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u79	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This bill is aimed at simplifying the provision of services for investment activities for the subject of the preparation and implementation of investment projects through the implementation of the single window principle. I want to say that the bill is in line with economic deregulation, deburocratization, reduction of bureaucratic procedures in paperwork and investment projects, we are lighting up green light, we need investment as air, not credit, but investment. That's why I have a specific proposal. Yes, critical comments were fair, but in principle, good grain in this law is and is vital. One proposal, adopted on first reading, will instruct the Committee to prepare it for second reading and adopt it on second reading next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes that the subjects be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further development. The Chief Research Administration recommends that the bill be rejected. But in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the first proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the preparation and implementation of investment projects under the “one window” principle. [[Registration number 7032]] Please vote. [[17:04:14]] For 243 Decision taken. There is an invitation to the committee to prepare it for consideration in the second reading by a reduced procedure. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to vote. [[17:04:47]] For 244 Decision taken. I suggest, Your Honor, that you consider the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act. [[on the construction of housing for military personnel and their families]] [[Registration number 6430]] A similar suggestion: consider this question by a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:05:24]] For 211 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Novikov Yulia Volodymyrna. Correspondent is a member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Czerpiki Oleg Zenović.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u81	Honorary colleagues in the current month of the Ukrainian Armed Forces number more than 45,000 military personnel in need of housing. Of these, 26,000 military personnel are renting housing in organizations and in private. At the same time, the existing order of change in the target destination of land and the construction of housing for military personnel and members of their families places a considerable burden on the state budget. Yes, U.S. Department of Defense contractors pay more than 6 million dollars a year for the stated goals, which have a significant impact on the cost of construction. In addition, the existing procedure to change the target destination of the defence land and the land of housing and public buildings increases construction dates from 6 to 12 months. This bill is designed to improve the provisions of the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act. The fact is that a valid law allows for the construction of social and affordable housing on land. But for some reason it is not possible to build housing on land for military personnel and their families, since such housing does not fall within either the category available or the category of social housing. At the same time, Ukraine’s legislation on the social and legal protection of military personnel and their families provides for the State’s obligation to provide free of charge for Ukrainian military personnel with housing. Thus, the bill is called upon to improve the existing law on the possibility of using the land of defense not only for the construction of social and affordable housing but also for the construction of homes for military personnel and their families, and allows the use of defences for this land without altering their purpose. Finally, I want to say that this law has been developed along with the responsible members of the Ministry of Defence, who fully support it. And this law doesn't need any extra funding from the State Budget. And I want to make a suggestion that if the hall supports this law, there will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u82	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u83	that this law should be passed in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u84	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Czerpiki Oleg Zinovyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u85	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, you will be mindful of the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Lands of Defence, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine Novikova, which was discussed at the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations on September 8, 2010. [[on the construction of housing for military personnel and their families]] [[Registration number 6430]] [[of 25.05.2010]] The project is aimed at improving the provisions of the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act, which deals with the possibility of building sites on the ground of defence of socio-cultural objects, by amending article 4 of the Defence Lands Act, building housing for military personnel and their families will take place on the ground of defence without changing the target. That's the main thing. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council made a number of comments on the project, but the first reading suggested that the bill be adopted as a basis. The Ukrainian Ministry of Defence's conclusion on the bill is also positive. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations proposes a draft law amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act, submitted by National Deputy Novikov Volodymyrovna, to be adopted as a basis. [[on the construction of housing for military personnel and their families]] [[Number 6430]] [[of 25.05.2010]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u86	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u87	Sergey Shevchuk, Faction "BUT" - "The Fatherland." Dear colleagues, you all know very well in your districts, there are very many cities and towns where there are so-called military towns of the former. Their appearance is pitiful. Attempts to balance local authorities are never rarely successful. Because the Ministry of Defense always wants some extra benefits for itself. It is the Ministry of Defense that does nothing to them, even if it can make accommodations for military personnel. And it's like that, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, And it's totally unseemly. So given the importance of housing for family members and military personnel themselves, our faction believes that there is a rational grain in this bill. Therefore, we believe that not only new military equipment, new technology, but also basic improvements in the housing of military personnel and the construction of military personnel are essential to the security of our state. And we propose to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u88	Alexy Plotnikov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u89	Please give the floor to the national deputy Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u90	Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Since 2008, the law has been progressive. But he plans to provide housing for military personnel and their families with insufficient perfection. And our families are in a pitiful state, in a demeaning state. The bill submitted by our colleague Yulia Novikova makes it impossible to discriminate against military personnel of all military formations, to save public funds for housing, to clean up unseemly things, to increase the construction term by 8-12 months, which is now available, and to provide economically for the land of defense and to allow legally, as well as affordable and social housing, to build housing for the families of our military personnel. I strongly ask you to support this bill on both the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u92	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u93	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to Catherine Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u94	Katerina Vaschuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u95	Honorable colleagues, with all their shortcomings and shortcomings, can be removed in a second reading, this law today on time. I'll give you an example from my area. We have a district center of Kiverci, in the center of the city under a military town that has long been nonexistent, just construction, fence and guard, over 20 acres [20 ha] of land. And the boundaries of the city to expand nowhere, there are thousands of officers and not only officers, standing in line on the land under construction. If it is wise to use this law, we can sell this area to people who want to have areas under construction and at these costs build housing for all the military that are in Lutsk and the town of Kiverz, because it's next door. This proposal, we wrote letters long ago to the Ministry of Defense, in Kabmin, we couldn't decide. I think there's a lot of these examples in our country, and people don't have housing. I think that this law is a step towards solving a painful problem that is not only in the face of the families of the military but also of the people who are in the vicinity of that town. So our faction will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u96	Thank you. Anatoly Griesenko, please, the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u97	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I am convinced that this is a situation where there is no power or opposition, but there is an important state issue to be resolved. And I propose to decide it today definitively, to adopt this law as a whole. There are no things in it that make you spend at least another week. Now, you know what a difficult situation there is in the Armed Forces and in other funding structures. There are mass release reports, and in the absence of intensive military training, a situation where the lieutenant’s family receives 1,700 dollars, 900 of which are spent on an uplift without compensation. If there's anything else that's holding anyone back, other than the urge to do military work, it's an opportunity to get housing, service housing. And this bill is designed to, first of all, shorten the time for building documents, second of all, reduce the costs that are measured by specific apartments, because the local authorities, when changing the target assignment, take a percentage of the decision of local authorities plus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u98	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u99	Plus, you have to leave a lot more bribes in the offices of some space mayors. So I'm proposing to adopt this law, and it's very important to all the power structures, right now in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u100	Thank you. Yes, Alexander Lazko and Gregory Smitch per minute. Oleg Lazka, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u101	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, for your democracy, your democracy. Of course, we will uphold this law and expect it to solve the problems of housing. But I would like to look to the government on the occasion that this bill is being considered. Saturday marks 925 years from the day of the settlement of the city of Priluka in the Chernigiv region. For many years, there has been an unbuilt 74-bedroom building for military personnel and unfortunately, for many years, the government has not been able to find the opportunity to allocate funds for the construction of this house. I know that President Yanukovic's visit to Pritika is scheduled on Saturday just to mark this date. I know that the government of Yulia Timoshenko in January-month has decided to take a number of steps to mark the 925th anniversary of Primika. I'm calling on the government to figure out a way to get the money for the 74th apartment building for the military, for the pilots, there was a big garrison. Today's the garrison.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u102	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u103	Tens of years waiting for housing. I'm going to the government to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u105	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I draw your attention as a member of the agrarian committee, that this law was considered on an agrarian committee, and only five members of the agrarian committee supported it. And why they didn't support him. The decision was: five to “for”, five to “against”. Five is "for", there is a question, but it is not a committee decision. And why the committee says that, I don't know. He reported that the committee had made a decision, the committee had not made a decision. And that's how you think. Think, please, our budget does not have the resources to build this dwelling. That's the first question. The second question. For example, in the construction of the land of agriculture, which is in the Ministry of Defence, a cottage garden is being built. Please tell me, how can you change the assignment then, when a person receives housing, he has to privatize the land? Question three. If retired military personnel are generally entitled to contact local authorities and obtain land free of charge within land that is under construction for the construction of such housing if they have the funds to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u106	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u107	Therefore, I am firmly opposed to accepting this law because it contradicts the Earth Code, and the Earth Code has priority in relation to the Law on the Land of Defence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. On the part of the deputies, it was a unanimous idea to accept it as a basis and as a whole. I first put to the vote the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Lands of Defence. [[on the construction of housing for military personnel and their families]] Please vote. [[17:20:52]] For 325 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it was a proposal to vote in favour of this bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, that's a denial. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I have a proposition: Because there is a denial. What? There is a suggestion to have the committee prepare him for consideration of the reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] On what basis? Now, let's finish the question, and then we'll give the word. Well, that's the law, isn't it? Please! I'm putting to the vote an offer, honourable colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion to have the committee prepare it for the second reading under a reduced procedure. And then you get the word. I'm going to the Rules. What do you want? Calm down! [[17:22:17]] For 244 Decision taken. Andrew Cosemykin’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u109	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The point is, when you were not here, unfortunately, your first deputy during the consideration of the bill, which was considered in the first half, is Bill No. 6550, the draft of the national parliament of Žuravac, so when, when we voted, the Party of Regions voted in favour of the bill in the first reading, Mr. Martinyuk put up when there were objections from the five deputies, he put in general and violated the regular rules. Now you're doing the same thing, but vice versa. I mean, when you're also a person who denies it, you bet that in a reduced procedure, and Mr. Martinyuk doesn't even pay attention to the denial of MPs. I believe that these are double standards and violations of the Rules Act. So I'd like to make Mr. Martinyuk's remarks today. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I say this again, you're doing one thing, Mr. Martinyuk is doing another.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, since George, Gregory Smitush, has objected to his acceptance as a whole, I will put to the vote another proposal to prepare for the second reading under a reduced procedure. No regulatory provisions were violated. As for the morning session, we'll do a proper analysis and inform you of the results. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well. Let's announce it. [[th m in s a l i]] A hard, hard thank-you. Dear colleagues, you have a proposal for a bill of self-regulation. How about a reduced procedure? Here is a proposal, to consider the issue in a simplified way. Dear colleagues, Mikhailo Vasilovich, the proposal cannot go away without you: consider the bill on self-regulation organizations (registration number 4841, 4841-1, 4841-d) under reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:25:06]] For 205 Decision taken. Rapporteurs are Ukrainian national deputies Anatoli Kirilovich, Moysik Volodymir Romanovich, Ksenija Ljapina and head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u111	Dear National Deputies! The bill on self - regulating organizations is designed to create conditions for effective interaction between operators and authorities. We are confident that mutual responsibility for the quality of goods, services, the creation of favourable conditions for economic activity, mutual control is essential and is an integral part of modern civil democratic society in Ukraine. The constant feedback, involvement of experience and the intelligence of public organizations is also vital to shaping all directions of the system’s policies for the development of society, the economy, and the state as a whole. It is very positive that this principle and such a strategy, the goal, are supported, practically, by all the political elements of our Parliament, and this is confirmed by a high level of legislative activity, including our colleagues in Natalia Royal, Kseniya Ljapina, other deputies. As we analyzed and considered the bills passed by self - regulating organizations, we came to the conclusion that each of them has a very serious positive effect. There are also, of course, observations, which are formulated by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And in order to enter the consensus option, the Supreme Council is invited to return the draft to its work and to give Parliament the sole consolidated bill on the development of self-regulatory organizations in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u112	Yes, thank you. Please, next bill 4841-1, Leapina Kseniya Mikhailovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u113	Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, this is really a very important question, because you and I are working on economic deregulation here, and this is often claimed by senior officials. But what is an alternative to regulating the economy. The answer has long been given throughout the world. The alternative is self-regulation. But the question is that self-regulation is really a serious professional approach, and maybe not everywhere, not in abstract markets, but in specific defined markets, where there are some signs where there are requirements, where there are clear regulatory criteria, where a self-regulatory organization can be created. My bill is slightly different from that of colleague Kinach because I propose not only self - regulation but professional self - regulation. This does not apply only to legal persons in charge, but it also applies to natural persons who engage in professional activities. You know, in the world, well-known professional self-regulatory organizations of doctors, medical associations, or, for example, lawyers, lawyers, lawyers, and so forth. I think that this is also very relevant for Ukraine. Among the authors of our bill is our colleague Karpuk, who was involved in the medical self - regulation in Ukraine. And that was almost 100 years ago. Therefore, we feel that it is not just about self - regulation but about self - regulation in professional markets. We've tried to define it, define the forms of such organizations, define the rules of their existence, determine how they can coordinate their activities. I'm sure there's something in our bill as well as in the bill of other colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u114	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u115	But last but not least, our bill has had a major public discussion among those social groups that can now claim to be self - regulated, professional associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u116	Thank you. Please, 4841-d. It's the Queen's report, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u117	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We are considering the draft Law on Self-Regulation Organizations, which has three different concepts, three bills, sponsored by Chečetov, Yanukovic, Gureev, Kinah, Komar, Karpuk, Moisik, Lapina, Shevchenko and Kraljevska. In principle, such a legislative initiative is not surprising to anyone, since the early introduction of a qualitatively new system of self-regulatory organizations is critical to the development of entrepreneurship and the improvement of the system of efficiency in public administration. Today, self-regulation is very chaotic and in some markets, such as paper assessment, financial services are not available in others. And in each separate segment, there are rules of self-organization. Business is looking for ways to create such organizations, for example, by creating an alliance of citizens, but in most cases the legislative confidence for the development of this segment is firmly closed. Yesterday, at the parliamentary hearings held in this room, Professor Lebanon noted that self-regulation was one of the most effective ways to combat corruption. At the same time, positive self-regulation is evident. First of all, it is the creation of uniform rules of economic activity in a certain segment. The second is an improvement in standards of business and occupation. Thirdly, it is an improvement in the quality of goods and services. Fourthly, it is a joint protection of business rights in a certain area. Business will become more secure against the arbitrary treatment of officials and will be able to defend its rights more effectively. The positive introduction of the legal field into the functioning of self-regulatory organizations will also affect public administration. Throughout the world, such organizations run sectoral offices, i.e. in fact facilitate the work of public authorities, so to speak, often difficult enough to verify all actors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u118	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u119	The self-regulatory organization makes the process more effective, while monitoring and warning corruption risks. That is, this system is won by both consumers and entrepreneurs and by the State as a whole. Ukraine needed such a system for further development. Without it, we will not be able to build an effective, integrated chain of interaction: a State, an entrepreneur, a consumer where self-regulatory organizations will play the dominant role of monitoring and protecting the rights of all, without exception, participants in the system. Self-regulatory organizations are part of the market economy, the 21st-century market system that works effectively in all developed countries of the world. And at the parliamentary hearings yesterday, we also understood that reforming our system is primarily needed through dismantling. So today, the transfer of part of the function from the controlling state.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u120	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u121	Self-regulatory organizations are part of the dismantling of the corruption system that works today. Without the fight against corruption, no other economy would be built. Therefore, the three bills proposed by the Committee should be sent to finalize the authors and to instruct the Committee to draft a single bill, which would also be submitted to the Parliamentary Chamber. Because there are healthy ideas for Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah, and for Xenia Mikhaylovna Lapina, and for our group that was drafting a bill on the committee platform. And I hope that we will come to the same conclusion and be able to present the only strong serious document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u122	Thank you. Shall we vote? Besides Arjevetin, who else wants to discuss it? Then, please, the microphone of Arjevetina, and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, we really don't believe that our country has lived to the time when we can consider such bills, when the state is willing to delegate part of its powers, part of its functions in order to translate into the shoulders of self-regulatory organizations. Indeed, we should thank the authors for the very important innovations that will begin in our country in this regard. In many lands, for example, the State even delegates its functions of regulating financial markets. In Canada, for example, there are self - regulating organizations that regulate credit unions, and the state is watching. By the way, in the next plenary week, we might be looking at the bill as an example of one of the self-regulatory organizations, right in the Cossack environment. And the authors of Arzhevtin, Miroshnichenko, Suhi, Boguslaev will show you this bill and you will see a good example of a self-regulation organization in our Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, I'm putting it to a vote. Maybe we should immediately vote on sending them to the authors, there'll be no objections? For processing. Then, please don't let me put each individual bill, I propose to vote for the proposal to send bills under number 4841, 4841-1 and 4841-d to the authors for further work. And commission the committee to leave with the agreed project. Please vote. [[17:36:42]] For 279 Decision taken. Bill 6703 of the Law on the Development of Entrepreneurship in Separate Territories is under consideration. There's a proposal to consider a reduced procedure, but we'll soon be taking on the development of businesses in a separate village. Please support the reduced procedure. [[17:37:20]] For 199 Supported. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u125	Respectable colleagues, respected by Adam Ivanovich, are to be considered in the sessional room by the Committee with a bill on the development of entrepreneurship in individual territories. Today, Ukraine is not evenly developing at the regional level. Some territories have, as for our State, a sufficiently high level of entrepreneurial activity and others are affected by economic disease, depression and social insolence. Let me get some numbers. In 2009, there were 259 small enterprises in Kiev. In Kharkiv region, 83 small enterprises were equal to this figure. In Odessa, 88th. At the same time, there were only 46 small enterprises in the Winnitsk region for 10,000 people. In Ternopolska, 44 in Rowenska, 46. The relative share of capital investments per capita in the first half of 2010 is lower than in the first half of 2010. If the capital investment rate in Kiev was 3.5 thousand grevens, in Dnepropetrov region about 1.5 thousand, in Zaporozhye area 1800, in Czernigovska only 520 griven, in Czernovetska 700 griven, in Zakarpatski 550 and in Lugansk, 670 griven. These are just indicators by area. And if we take some areas in the areas of outsiders, we're going to be even lower. Economic depression, unemployment, low purchasing power and hopelessness are the cards of such territories. Inequality of economic development in the region and serious distortions. People leave once-in-a-lifetime promising areas and cities, leave their homes and seek a better fate in regional centres or in other States. There is a need to push for development, promote entrepreneurial activity in these territories and give them a chance for a full and qualitative future. This will not only eliminate the imbalance in development and economic recovery of vast territories, it will also increase incomes in public and local budgets. Create new productions and jobs. To attract investment both internally and externally.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u126	Finish it, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u127	Look at Kiev, Odessa. Kharkov. It was business development that enabled them to become centres of modern Ukraine and to effectively develop and improve infrastructure and living standards. But Ukraine is not just a capital and a few millionaire cities. These are still tens of thousands of semi-destructive villages, devastated by the economic collapse of the city, dying villages. We have no right to move away from millions of Ukrainians and to place a cross in such settlements. That is why the bill proposes to introduce a systematic set of measures aimed at stimulating entrepreneurship and creating a free enterprise zone. They will have separate regimes that will attract investment and transform the economy. This is primarily the provision of opportunities for local authorities to establish simplified procedures for the issuance of permits. Secondly, this compensation is 50 per cent of the cost of creating one job. Thirdly, this 10-year exemption from income tax, which will be realized, I draw your attention only to investment projects that will lead to the creation of new jobs. Fourthly, it is a provision for free taxation of goods which are imported into such territories but do not have the right to transfer to other territories. We have established very strict conditions for such territories, provided for regional features and provided opportunities for individual development through the development of a local-specific concept of the operation of the zones. I am confident that this document will be able to breathe new life into many regions of Ukraine and give them a chance to develop fully. The committee requests Parliament to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u128	Thank you. I explain that, at Landik's request, I gave him the opportunity to speak longer. Yes, please, who wants to speak? Sign up, two to go, two to go. Who Wants Free Zones? Light and dry, please. Easy does, Dry does not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u129	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, Lazko doesn't want free zones, Lazko wants the depressed territories in Ukraine, half of which are progressive. And that's exactly what this law is about, which was reported by my colleague Natalia Kraljevska. I'll give you an example of Montenegro. A recent edition of “The Correspondent” published a rating. The “Comments” published an area rating. The Chernigiv region is the last place in Ukraine. But first place in Ukraine after death and last place in Ukraine after birth. Half the area is a depressive area, especially those affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Ripkinsky, Gordnian regions, Storsky district, Seminovian region, etc. And we have a law on State support for depressed territories. Sadly, however, this law is written in such a way that just half of the area that is depressed does not fall under the law. And the area is virtually devoid of state support, of opportunities to develop. And that's why people die more each year in Montenegro than they're born. And I think that this law that we're looking at today, the bill, is going to make it possible for the Chernigiv region, the Volin region, the Ternopil region, the Chernobyl region, the Zakartat region to shift from a depressive to a progressive order. Regrettably, the government has not joined the work on this law. And I know that the coalition will not uphold this law. But I suggest that if this law isn't supported now, let's work with the government to work on it, let's anticipate, let's take those nuances into account. Because they're interested in the government. Because the strategy has to be behind the government. And I think that the opposition, the opposition MPs should join in and, together with the government, produce a law that would allow for a depressive territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u130	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u131	Which would allow us to undo and make as few of these depressing territories as possible. Because it's actually where our people feed. And they're waiting for state support. And you and I, as legislators, have to do everything, so that people don't go out there, but they do. To prevent the villages from disappearing and to restore them, there was production.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u132	Thank you. Each person turns his attention to the fact that I am in violation of the Rules. Please, Dry. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, why I will vote against this bill, I will not support it. I want to remind you all how in the winter of 2004 the government that took power in 2005 eliminated all the free economic zones in Ukraine. This was discussed by President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine in October 2005 in Lviv in a business forum. I do not believe in the sincerity of the current authors of this bill that they are trying to bring about a coup. The other one. We have a basic bill, you probably know about it, about the general principles of creating and functioning special free economic zones. I want to remind you of article 5 of this bill. Where the rules are clearly stated, there is no need to invent, write, and write down clearly, which is the order in which documents are needed to acknowledge the need, the objective inevitability of creating and granting a certain area the status of the free economic zone. Well, one more thing about the customs regime. Dear colleagues, especially the author of the bill, well, you have to understand that this is an area that produces the product that goes to export. What is produced for export in an area called depression? What is produced, what is produced, what factories or factories in Chernigiv, or in the same Ternopil region? That's why I think, in principle, the offer of a colleague of Lazka was correct. Let's give this idea a boost for the Cabinet of Ministers. I haven't called you yet, I just called your name, read the Rules, I'll call you back. We have a Deputy Minister of Finance from the Cabinet, please let the Cabinet of Ministers introduce a real bill to give us the status of a free economic zone to those areas that can carry out the necessary economic activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u134	Thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on draft Law No. 6703 on the development of entrepreneurship in separate territories. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:47:33]] For -14 Not supported. The bill was rejected. Please, Queen, a minute of the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, we see ourselves struggling with depression. Regrettably, few people's deputies are in the territories and see the situation today of small villages, villages and former industrial centres, which the whole country had once been proud of, and are now in complete ruin. Unfortunately, many may not have understood what was involved in the matter in principle. There is no talk of free economic zones, we are talking about depressing territories, the territories that the State is now under an obligation to provide incentives for development, so that business in those territories understands that by investing money, developing, the State is interested in this and supports it. Because there is no complete infrastructure in the depressive territories today, there are no jobs and unemployment is prevalent in most areas. And these aren't the areas that used to wash billions of dollars, and nothing went into the budget. Therefore, I believe that we really need to finalize this bill together with the Cabinet of Ministers and put it in full perspective. If we can do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u136	Who called Sulkowski? So, dear colleagues, we don't have time to do unproductive work. The Minister's office, I understand, promises to make a bill. Yes, please, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u137	Literally one word as a comment on what was said. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, that Ukraine has acceded to the Kyoto Convention, which clearly defines all the conditions related to the individual customs regime. On this basis, of course, what is proposed in the law, however directly contrary to the provisions of the Kyoto Convention, is first. Secondly, with regard to territories with depressive effects, such practices do exist in Europe, but they are somewhat different from what is proposed in this law. It is a matter of establishing certain indicators related to the level of unemployment, living standards, income levels, compared to the country as a whole. I would therefore ask that those positions related to support for the economic support of the depressed territories be guided by the international standards under which Ukraine has committed itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u138	Yes, Your Honor, we are going to consider the question of Bill 507 - amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to bring Ukraine into line with the Constitution. [[concerning the State registration of immovable property rights]] The drafter sent a letter of appeal, but since it is already in the agenda, I ask to vote and support the drafter of the bill to withdraw the bill. Please vote. [[17:51:15.]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. And we move on to the final chapter of our work “Inclusion into the agenda”. “Victory” will be tomorrow. I'm voting on a proposal for that. in order to include in the agenda the draft Act No. 0954 of the National Commission of Ukraine on the Control of the Implementation, Functioning and Improvement of the Single State System of Production, Supply, Transport, Consumption and Payment for Fuel and Energy Resources and Housing and Utilities. [[second reading]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:52:13]] For 1 The question is not included. She has been treated more than once. It's off-limits, although the second was reading. So we think we don't have that law anymore. Yes, there is the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending Chapter XI of the Final Position of the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges on the transfer of cases relating to social benefits. [[Registration number 7148]] Please, Sasu microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u139	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Deputy Sas, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherskina Party. Adam Ivanovich, of course, knows the position of article 100 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And for those of you who have forgotten the Rules at home, I remind you that this article is called "Alternative Bills". And part one says that they are considered to be alternatives to laws that contain positions that regulate the same circle of issues that repeat the essence of the regulation of the same relationship. Bills 7134 and 7148 are registered in the Supreme Council. And 7,134, registered on 16.09, and 7,148 on 20.09. Thus, according to the content, the legal provisions are the same, even by name. Therefore, according to article 100, I propose that both of these bills be included in the agenda and considered to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-23-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, I've looked at this: really, there's this Bill -- 7134, which is the same. So let's both do it: 7,148, and 7,134 -- we'll put them in the agenda so that we can look at them together. Please be supportive. This is a very necessary bill. Vote. [[17:54:35]] For 283 Decision taken. And there's another suggestion: putting two alternative bills into the agenda is the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[by number 7101 and 71011-1]] 7101, drafters of the bill: Catherineczuk and Teryohin. And 7101-1 is the Cabinet of Ministers, the author of the bill. I'm asking you to include in the agenda the bill of 7101, 7101-1. For the inclusion of them in the agenda, please vote. [[17:55:40]] For 243 It's on. Colleague Argewittin suggests that we consider them today. Dear colleagues. Yes, and voted in general. I'd like to ask, let's give a protocol commission to the profiling committee so that for the next plenary week they can prepare for us proposals to the committee to consider these bills in the first reading. Thank you. We've run out of questions on the day-to-day. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I find it closed. All those who have offended me, I forgive them, and forgive me who I have offended. Good-bye.
