ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:33]] Cards were registered in the 412 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a meeting schedule on your hands for today. Let us now consider the issues set out in the schedule for Thursday, March 4, 2010. A draft decree amending the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues, I beg you, let's not delay, let's take a brief look at it. We will now lead to political debate. I'm voting on this issue for a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 6103]] Please vote. [[10:02:46]] For-179 Decision taken. Sergei Sass. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, before dealing with this issue under a reduced procedure. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you. We need to get him into the daytime. This time. And secondly, I would like you to open now article 47th of the Fifth Rules, where it is written that the Supreme Council's decision on draft laws, regulations and other acts of the Supreme Council is only taken up on issues that are included in the agenda of the Supreme Council's plenary session prior to the beginning of the plenary session. I mean, if we're going to include it now, we can look at it in the next plenary. Please follow this standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u3	Honorable colleagues and a respected colleague! What we have to include in the agenda is you're absolutely right. And I'm going to put it to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Secondly, I remind you that at the Conciliation Board meeting on Monday, such an offer was made, and it was supported and it did not raise objections. That's enough! Please! I'll put to the vote now on the inclusion in the agenda of this issue. If not included, it will not be considered. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's agenda a decision to amend the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, to be included in the agenda. [[Registration number 6103]] Please vote. [[10:04:59]] For 234 Decision taken. Please, Nicholas Komar. The factions? Please. Region Party – 172, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 4, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 7, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20, “Afterfractional” – 4. Mikola Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! In view of the urgent need to adopt a number of legislative acts. The proposal made next week to announce to the plenary, thus making changes to the schedule, to the calendar plan for the work of the Supreme Council. This issue was discussed at the meeting of the regulatory committee and was unanimously recommended to the deputies in the decision - making room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u5	Yes, have a seat, please. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov is head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u6	Dear Head, distinguished National Deputies of Ukraine! At its meeting on 4 March, the Committee considered a draft decision of the Supreme Council to amend the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Komar Mikola Stepanović. The project initiator proposes that, in view of the need for urgent consideration by the Supreme Council, urgent issues should be changed to the calendar schedule for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, a week from 9 March to 12 March for plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and a week from 15 March to 19 March for committee and factions. In discussing the above-mentioned draft, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the inclusion in the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft decision to amend the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Komar, and to support it. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, after yesterday's government demarche, when it refused to fulfil its constitutional obligations, functions and rank. Until the formation of a new government to be in the building in Grushewski, today the practically centre of gravity of power has moved to Parliament, and therefore we must work both for the Government and for Parliament. What is more, we are going to spring, a number of issues related to the preparation of the APC, spring-field work, a number of issues related to the exit of the country from the crisis and the facilitation of enterprise participation, and heavy and high energy costs, the tax press and others. Therefore, it is absolutely right for Parliament to be very careful next week to work on specific socio-economic issues regarding the withdrawal of the country from the crisis and the improvement of social standards for people's lives. Therefore, the proposal to support this order and declare plenary next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u9	Honorable national MPs and all who wanted to express their views on the matter expressed themselves. Is there any other way of thinking? Please, John Kirilenko, one minute. One man is from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u10	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! I'm bringing everyone back to the conversation that took place on the Conciliation Council when the chairman was clearly told that unfortunately, we have a committee job built up so that before the second reading of the bill, even for the current week, we're almost there. Therefore, to continue to produce the word ore next week, to write documents that will be accepted only in the first reading, and then to be accepted in the second would probably be inappropriate. The faction cannot support the proposal to make next week plenary because we have nothing to accept. The committee's work is to really revitalize the committee work and present the prepared documents for next plenary week's meeting. And the next plenary week is to make the final decisions of the drafts in the second reading. So we can't support the offer. And we know the real story. We understand that there are intense coalition negotiations, and we understand what kind of conversations are going on, and we understand what motivations are going on. That's the way to say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! They're all here. Dear colleagues, who have insisted on performing since the factions that have not spoken? Chechtov Mikhail has already spoken, I can't. Now, dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6103]] For the purpose of taking a decision as a whole, as a ruling, I ask you to vote. [[10:11:09]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The factions, please. Region Party - 168, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 5, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 7, Communists - 25, Litvina Block - 19, non-fractional - 4. Dear National Deputies! We are now taking up information from the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the privatisation of the implementation of the 2009 State Privatization Programme. Eugene, please, microphone. Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u12	Alexander Bondar, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Mikhailovich! We are violating the procedure because the information that was given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine was not discussed on the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization, was not discussed and drawn up personally by the Head of the Supervisory Board. In general, such a procedure as a report on information is not available, there is a report by the Fund of Holding and a presentation by the Special Monitoring Commission. So I'm asking, because this information is trendy, there's half of the facts that don't fit. Not to consider this question, since it was not considered by the review committee and there was no solution to this question. Once again, this is the personal opinion of the head of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. That's what I'm saying as the first deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u13	Microphone, please, the head of the Special Control Commission, and then we'll make a decision. Please, there's a microphone. Marmazov Eugene Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u14	Respectable comrades! Traditionally, information on the Commission has never been considered, nor has it been considered when it headed the Bondar Commission. Anyone who wanted to read it was on the information board and who read it knew that it was stuck in the program and amended it. So information has never been discussed at a meeting of the commission, Aleksandr Nikolaevich. And the fact that you're trying to make this situation worse here, I know what this is about. So I think this needs to be heard now, it's given out, and I take note of it. By the way, there is nothing new, it says what the commission did and what decisions it made.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, such an offer, may I have your attention? To recommend to the head of the Special Monitoring Commission, to familiarize the members of the committee with the information prepared, and for the next plenary week, we have to look at it. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, we need to listen to the information, I want to say again, let the commission gather, let it consider. If the commission can't get together, that means the Commission's problems, not the issue of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. No objections? Thank you. For the next plenary week, we will consider. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the identification of the court by technical means]] [[Registration number 1038]] Dear colleagues, I inform you that the drafters of the bill, the People's Deputies of Portnov and the Oilynik have sent a letter of appeal to this bill. At the same time, we must put to the vote the question of withdrawal to satisfy their requests for the repeal of the bill. I'd like to ask my honourable colleagues to vote in favour of this proposal, otherwise we'll have a bill, and the authors refuse it. I am voting on a motion to withdraw and thus to withdraw from the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the identification of the court by technical means]] This is a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please vote. [[Registration number 1038-p]] [[10:15:50]] For 221 The decision is not taken. I'd like you to meet me at the People's Chamber, please. Is there no member of the Oilman? I invite you to the report of the deputy chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr. Schustik Olen Yuriyovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Two years ago, on 14 January 2008, the Committee on Justice considered a draft Act amending some laws of Ukraine at its meeting. [[on the identification of the court by technical means]] [[Registration number 1038]] Submitted by Ukrainian national deputies Andrei Portnov and Svetoslav Olijnik And then on January 14th, the following decision was taken, in accordance with the Final and Transitional Regulations, the Civil Procedure Code and the Administrative Judicial Code of January 1, 2008 came into force. The bill proposes to postpone the deadline for the introduction of a mandatory full fixation of civil and administrative cases by means of technical means for one year, from 1 January 2008 to 1 January 2009. Accordingly, the term expired a year ago. The reason is simply that the courts are unwilling to enter a mandatory full lock-in of the court by means of sound recording technology because of lack of funding of the court system and lack of adequate facilities and equipment in the courts. It may be noted that during this period of judicial funding has not improved, and the technical facilities and courtrooms have ceased to exist. So the problem is gone. And if the Supreme Council is to vote in favour of the bill, it is necessary to put out another term, for example, January 1st next year, but it will be up to the national MPs. Taking into account the decision made by the committee on 14 January 2008 and on the basis of part two of article 114 of the Supreme Council Rules, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended that the draft law be adopted as a basis and, as a whole, as the Law of Ukraine, the decision of the committee was then taken unanimously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for Helena Yuriovna? If there is, please sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u18	Dear reporter, I'd like to ask you a very specific question. Look, it's going to turn out this way if this bill is passed, that the fixation is not always going to be a court-martial initiative. Right? Or one side. And what about the person who wants to challenge the court's decision, because the protocol really isn't always the same or adequately reflect the essence, there's a shortcut, there's some resistance, but it doesn't convey the whole essence of the trial. This does not narrow down the rights of the parties to the trial, for without them in principle the question may be settled that this trial is not fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u19	Thank you for asking. I think it doesn't narrow down, because it leaves one with the right to make sure that the trial is still on the table, let's say, pending its consideration, at the request of the parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u20	Honorable colleagues, all who signed up, asked the question, Oleg Zarubinsky. Olena Yuriovno, thank you, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u21	Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u22	Please sign up for the bill. I'd like the names of the national MPs to be taken out of factions and then the national deputies. From the factions - 0 from the people's deputies, please - 0. I'll put it to a vote. Then the bill was concluded. I'm voting on the first proposal. The first proposal to adopt a draft law on the basis of amendments to certain laws of Ukraine concerning the determination of the court by technical means. [[10:20:58]] For-151 The decision is not taken. Respectful colleagues, taking into account this and the fact that the drafters of the bill have sent a letter of appeal, obviously there is no need to put to the vote a motion for re-reading. I'm announcing that the bill has been rejected. Dear colleagues, there is now to be a draft Act No. 1121 amending article 191 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. [[concerning the delivery of a court notice]] Since it's a small bill, I'm voting on a motion to consider it under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:22:04]] For 181 Decision taken. Rapporteur of the Ukrainian National Deputy Miroshnenko Yuri Romanovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Justice of Novikov Yulia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u23	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. This bill deals with one circumstance that involves judicial proceedings. It's a non-political law. It is very small and refers to those circumstances at one time or another, the court postpones or postpones its sitting. And in these circumstances, those parties or parties to the trial who have to confirm their presence in court at the workplace or in another court, if a meeting is held in parallel, have no formal basis for formal confirmation of their need to be present during a court hearing. Today, the court, reporting on both the transfer and the new date and the time of the case, is doing so on behalf of the internal court records. For example, there is no evidence in the workplace of what a person should be at this time and on this day in court. The law proposes to make a party or party to the process to give a message or a message-message. Thus, a person can take this message, place it at the right place or place of work, and thus legally participate in a judicial session. I propose to support this law, because both the Science and Experimental Authority, and the Ministry of Justice, and the Supreme Court, which were looking at it, are supporting it. I even propose to adopt it not only as a basis but also as a whole, because there is no great legislative money.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u24	Yes, have a seat, Yuri Romanovich. Julia Volodymyrna Novikova, head of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, on May 21, 2008, the Committee on Justice discussed at the session a draft law amending article 191 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. [[concerning the delivery of a court notice]] The main scientific and expert office and the Supreme Court of Ukraine support the draft law without any notice. The Ministry of Justice proposes to replace the term “participants of the process” used in the project with “participants of the civil process” with “participants”. The adoption of the bill will help to improve the procedure for reporting to participants on the case in case of postponement or suspension of the case. The committee supports the bill and proposes to adopt it as a basis in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, please sign up for Bill 1121. Thank you. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? National Deputy Vlasenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u27	Sergey Vlasenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I fully support the adoption of this bill in the first reading, but I would ask you not to put it on, but I would ask you not to put its adoption to the vote as a whole, because the bill needs to be redrafted. In the way he is, this rule enters into conflict with the standard for a seven - day delivery period. That is, today during the trial, if the case is postponed or transferred, and the person is scheduled to do so in the courtroom, such a transfer may be done for less than 7 days. However, if a court notice is issued or a request is made, the seven - day term will enter into force. So just in this situation, it's necessary to technically resolve this issue, probably by supplementing the bill, by adding that if this message is received at the request of a person in court, then it can be obtained in more than seven days, and that will solve the problem. So I think that this bill needs to be voted on as soon as possible in the first reading, waiting for it to come to the appropriate committee, and moving it to the room as soon as possible in the second reading. It's really not a political bill, it's a legal failure that needs to be regulated, so I don't see any problems voting it out now in the first reading and quickly putting it to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, who else is insisting on the performance? Adam Martinyuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I think we should listen to the opinion of the rapporteurs who said that this bill contains only three words of amendment to the relevant law. I think in order to save time, save paper, save material resources, we have every reason to vote it out as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, who else is insisting on the performance? None. Valery Bondick, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I, you know, have learned the principle of objectivity. And it's a rare occasion when I'm supporting our colleague from the opposition of Sergio Vlasenko and not supporting my colleague Yuri Miroshnick. Why? I'll explain. Indeed, a subpoena is an important procedural tool for disciplining any party: the plaintiff, the defendant, the third party. And that's why we, the legislators, with you in previous calls, as it were, and the legal requirements, when there's a court order, are the Griffon Police and so on. So I would suggest that you take this as a basis, or at least in the first reading, and work on it. Why? Because such a small, fragmented change has great legal consequences. And this will even reduce the burden in the courts and discipline the parties who are involved in the trial. And for the second reading, I'm going to submit my proposal, because I'm afraid I'm not there right now. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. A committee proposal is put to the vote on the adoption of the draft Act amending article 191 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. [[concerning the delivery of a court notice]] Please vote. [[10:30:14]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there were suggestions to accept it as a whole. At the same time, a number of warnings were made, therefore. Well, I mean, a number of warnings have been made. So let's put it this way: if this proposal is supported, have the committee prepare it for second reading by a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[10:30:55.]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine is being announced. [[on improving public regulation in the area of tariffs on utilities and other services provided by utilities and utilities]] The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Serbin Yuri Sergiyyovich, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Trajduk Mikola Fedorovic. Yuri Sergiyovich, perhaps under a reduced procedure to offer it? May I? Dear colleagues, the reporter suggests that the bill be reviewed in a simplified manner. Is there no objection to putting this motion to the vote? I'm putting her to the vote. Please vote. [[10:32:01]] For 240 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, for my three convocations this law is very easy for me to report because it is short. I hope more than half the hall read it. But I'm still going to talk about the essence of this law. We now have the tariffs approved by law, and a session of the local council can only then reverse that decision. What do we get out of this? After that, local council members start running to the procuratour, to the deputies of the Supreme Council, to complain about the city’s mayor’s decision to reverse. We all say, and the local councils are asking for increased authority to deal with matters. But in addition to authority, let them take on their responsibilities and responsibilities. So it's suggested that, let's put the tariffs on local councils. Let him prepare his own arguments along with the businesses, and let the local councils be responsible for their own decision on the matter. Then they'll think about what needs to be done, and they'll think about something to modernize, and they'll spend some extra money, and they'll do all the energy, transport, fuel and everything. I know what those who will say against it will say. They will say that these populist decisions on local councils will not ensure the work of boilers, transportation, or anything else. But sometimes we have to start doing it. To help the local councils, they answered their questions. So that the boilers would actually work. And let's start with what we're talking about, about increasing the rights and duties of local councils, starting with this law, giving them not only rights but also responsibilities. And then they will not run to me or to my colleague Baranov, who is going to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u34	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u35	I'm done. And to say what you are to protect, please, us from the bad measure, for what is bad is to be done. So please take it seriously and support it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u36	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Trajduk Mikola Fedorovich, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u37	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government on March 19, 2008. During the discussion, it was suggested that price - and - tariff - related issues were of great social importance and therefore would be desirable for them to be resolved at the plenary meetings of the Council. But other opinions were expressed, as well as doubts that the operationalization of these issues would be lost, as executive bodies and councils work on a permanent basis and are called upon to resolve those issues related to the life of the territorial community, and local councils take decisions at plenary meetings, which take place periodically as the session of the council is convened. After discussion in full support of the need to improve Ukrainian legislation in the area of tariff regulation on utilities and other services, the committee proposes that the bill be adopted in the first reading on the basis of further development of the bill for the second reading. Please support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u38	Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for the bill. Please put the name of the national deputies on the board. The Pavlova faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u39	Andrey Pavlowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". Dear National Deputies! The bill 1388 proposes that tariffs should be approved only in plenary meetings of the rural, rural, urban council, and that they should be established and approved by the relevant implementing bodies. I think it's the right decision not to have speculation that bad, for example, is just the measure, not the council, although it really is, I myself was the deputy of Kyivrada, when, for example, in Kiev, the mayor did not consult Kyivrada, signed appropriate orders to raise tariffs three and four times, and then there were appropriate social tensions, scandals and so forth. So I propose to support this bill, so that the council will also be responsible for the tariffs that are in force in its territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u40	Valery Baranov, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u41	Deputies! You know, populism has already destroyed the economy of our State and continues to destroy the public economy. The issue of pricing is an issue of economic calculations and accurate sciences; it is not an area of politics and populism. There is a very transparent and clear tariff system today. Any utility considers calculating its costs, plus it has to plan its profitability. After that, the public structure, the price inspection verifys the correctness of these calculations, gives rise to a city council which, in principle, establishes only a level of profitability, because all the rest of the tariffs are not affected by city councils and enforcement, and the tariff is subsequently established. If, today, by this law, we start setting tariffs at meetings, or at a city council session, which consists of a variety of political forces, which, because of the love of the people, in coffeehouses, will lower tariffs below their actual cost and cost, we will completely destroy our country's utilities. Let us therefore put an end to populism and self-deception, and we will not adopt laws that are detrimental to our State, the public sector, local self-government and ultimately the interests of our territorial communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u42	Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u43	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Dear colleagues, if we want to democratize something, we have to at least ask what practice we're doing. If there are city heads here, and Baranov has just been out of this rostrum, it's a city head and an effective city head, if you know. Ask any city head how it can identify and manage executive organs, and manage the economy of a particular region, if we put everything today under the principle of a weak city head and a strong council. By the way, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this path has become, I think, a very wrong path, this is a path of irresponsibility. We could go to a strong council, but in a completely different way, in principle, to form this council, not by a proportional sign, but by a majority. And if we went to the majority principle, maybe this law and then it would have some logic, today we're paralyzing practically the power of the city. The more you know, the unpopular steps of pricing we're going to have to go otherwise we're going to lose all our utilities. So I propose this law not to support, to reject as such. We can think about how the council can make possible more effective in controlling the setting of these prices. But handing over pricing to the council is an irresponsible decision today under the current conditions of the formation of these councils. And so I propose that I listen once again to common sense, not to populism. How to block the entire work of our city authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u44	Dear National Deputies! The bill is closed. Yuri Serbin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! When I started my speech, I was hoping that they had read the bill, and no one was proposing to pass the price on to the councils. Prices, as they were, are created in a general way. But what we're proposing is that we not only prove that the decision is made by, for example, 11 people -- it's made by 6 people. And you know them, and you can encourage them to make that decision. To be accepted after that, the local council accepted the calculations. And that she should take responsibility. If we say rights, let's give local self-government. [[responsibilities]] And just read the laws that are proposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u46	Dear National Deputies! The bill is closed. The proposal for a committee on adoption is based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine to improve public regulation in the area of tariffs on utilities and other services provided by companies and utilities. [[Registration number 1388]] Please vote. Please vote. [[10:42:48]] For-151 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for re-reading draft law registration number 1388. [[10:43:12]] For-161 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law, registration number 2144, on the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Imports and Implementation in Ukraine of ethyl gasoline and lead additives for gasoline is under review. [[on aviation fuel]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Sjiyanov Boris Anatoliyovich, co-rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Skoubenko. The committee suggests that the bill be reviewed in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[10:44:13]] For 213 Decision taken. Please, Boris Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u47	The Honourable Head, MPs, and representatives of the media. I present to your well-known draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Imports and Implementation in Ukraine of ethyl petrol and lead gasoline additives, which envisages the lifting of the ban on imports into and implementation of Ukraine by 213 years, once again, only of aviation gasoline and only of the special brand “Augaz-100 LL”. Motivation of the need for change is due to the fact that the introduction and implementation of ethyl aviation is prohibited and has led to the fact that small - class aircraft, airplanes, and helicopters are forced to operate on petrol vehicles. The use of automobile gasoline instead of airships leads to premature engines again, an increase in the number of refusals that pose a real threat to flight safety. The use of ethyl aviation gasoline is common practice in the world. This is related to the need to meet the technical and operational requirements for the safe operation of carburetor aircraft. This gasoline is used in all countries of Europe. According to publications referring to government meetings in Ukraine, about one thousand light aircraft and helicopters are now registered. Their numbers are increasing steadily. So the safety of these aircraft and helicopters with thrust engines is very important. With Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization, business contacts with other countries are expected to increase. It is business aviation, which is one of the most effective forms of direct business communication in the world trade, that is used to a large extent by small aerial craft with thrust engines that need special ethylated aviation gasoline. Because of the ban on the use of such aviation fuel in Ukraine, direct business communication with foreign partners is prohibited. small aviation in Ukraine at this time is impossible. The main purpose of the bill is to improve flight safety, both for Ukrainian airmen and for numerous guests, in view of Ukraine’s acceptance of the World Trade Organization and its activities in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u48	Finish up, please, yes. Please. Finish, speak, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u49	Please let me finish. Please, MPs, support this bill, as it does not contain any political elements, but will work for a small aviation development and the state of Ukraine as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u50	National MP Scubenko from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u51	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Your attention is given to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Imports of ethyl gasoline in Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to temporarily withdraw, I stress, the temporary removal of restrictions on the introduction into Ukraine of aviation ethyl ethylene from one side of the use of ethylene in Ukraine is prohibited by the Heavy Metals Protocol of Ukraine and, on the other hand, because of the absence of an unleaded petrol brand in Ukraine, the use of unleaded petrol has led to the use of unleaded unleaded petrol in small aviation technology. According to the previous reporter, it is about one thousand light - powered aircraft used in Ukraine. Today, of course, there is an urgent need to address this issue in practice, namely, the introduction of new production capacity related to the production of high - octane unleaded aviation gasoline. But it takes a very long time. The possibility of organizing unleaded aviation gasoline in oil refineries has already been claimed by separate factories and the Minpalevenergo of Ukraine. However, adequate funding is needed to carry out the work indicated. Thus, the committee today considers it possible to temporarily lift the temporary restriction on imports and implementation in Ukraine of aviation ethylene only as a temporary measure to resolve this situation, which will last until the problem is resolved, but not more than in 2013. This position is supported by the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine. In addition, some of the provisions of the bill require further work. It is necessary to justify the amount of aviation gasoline listed in the bill. And in part two of the bill, delete the term “temporary” because of the temporary import of anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u52	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u53	predicts further return of this product, which in this case is of no use. In view of the foregoing, we propose to support Bill 2144 in the first reading and to send a second reading to the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. People's MP Prokopchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Zeynalov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u55	Yuri Prokopchuk, Equine, Timoshenko Street. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize here that this is not only about the safety of the very small-scale aircraft, but also about the safety of the citizens and the areas over which they fly. And so any drag on this bill on the second, frictional reading will only have to do with the violation of the air code again, that is, the movement into the air space of Ukraine. And so my proposal is to accept it not only as a basis, but as a whole. To give everyone the opportunity, including the organizations that are now conducting training and flying composition, such as, say, those who want to get a driver’s license, more specifically, a pilot’s license. That's what needs to be done. And that's security not only for those who fly directly, but for all citizens. Please be supportive in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u56	Zeynalov refuses to speak. Who insists on the performance? I can't see. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Imports and Implementation into Ukraine of ethyl gasoline and lead gasoline additives. [[on aviation fuel]] [[Registration number 2144]] Please vote. [[10:51:41]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I am betting on voting for re-reading the draft Act. [[Registration number 2144]] [[10:52:05]] For-146 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water is under review. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Gerasimczuk Vladimir Volodymyrovich. The correspondent is the first deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Shershun Mikola Haritonovich. The committee suggests that it be considered in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:52:55]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Please report to Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u57	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The drinking water and water sector is one of the most important areas of the country’s economy to ensure the viability of society, since almost all the population and most industrial enterprises consume drinking water from a centralized water supply system. The main regulatory act that defines the legal, economic and organizational principles of the drinking water supply and water supply system is the Ukrainian Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water. The Law was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in January 2002. Since the adoption of the law, the economic situation in the country has changed, and the legal framework has also undergone significant changes. At present, there are substantial gaps in the legal regulation of this sector that cause a problem in the relationship between drinking water companies and consumers, causing damage to and hindering the development of the industry. These problems can only be solved through changes and additions to the law. In particular, it is necessary to remove existing gaps in legal relations in drinking water supply, to create conditions for more efficient operation of drinking water companies, and to ensure the steady development of water supply and sanitation in Ukraine's population. I would like to point out that the solution to the issues covered by this bill is relevant to all the population areas of Ukraine, which have centralized drinking water supply and water supply systems. Among the main tasks of the bill are to improve basic terminology, the principles of public policy in this area, to ensure the fulfilment of obligations and the realization of rights of law-makers in water supply, to implement the principle of public policy on irresponsibility in cases of violations of drinking water legislation and drinking water supply. In particular, the draft law defines some changes in basic terminology. In particular, it is suggested that the definition of “consumer of drinking water” be changed by complementing a range of needs for which drinking water can be used. That is to include manufacturing needs in the list of needs. The changes that have been made will allow for a clear understanding that drinking water can be used in manufacturing activities, such as drinking, hot water, and so forth. This will avoid the interpretation that drinking water is intended to use only the personal, non-productive needs of consumers, as well as allowing contractual relations in the field of water supply and water supply to be arranged, allowing the legal right of drinking water undertakings to pay the cost of drinking water to all consumers who actually receive and use it. It is also proposed that the principles of public policy in the field of drinking water and drinking water be complemented with the use of precautionary measures to protect water systems as life - sustaining and strategically informed about their condition. Attention is paid to the question of responsibility for a timeless and incomplete payment to consumers of water services. Thus, according to the drinking water company project, it is possible to stop the supply of water services if the last one is not set to the level of environmental armor, if the consumer does not pay in full for the drinking water used. This infringement will increase consumer responsibility, stabilize the financial situation of water-supply companies. I would like to point out that a similar right has been granted to electricity suppliers on thermal energy in accordance with the laws of Ukraine on electricity and on heat supply. It is also proposed to include in the public accounting tasks of drinking water and drinking water supply data on the length of water supply and sewage networks, the availability of sewage treatment facilities, the presence of sewage treatment plants, the percentage of the population of centralized water supply and sanitation. The inclusion of indicators is necessary in order to determine the level of supply of drinking water and water supply for the population, to identify the direction of water and sanitation development, to address technical problems and to take measures to ensure that drinking water and water supply systems function reliably, and to ensure that adequate quality is provided. Finally, I would like to point out that the adoption of this bill will have significant socio-economic positive effects. In particular, it will create conditions for a more efficient operation of centralized water supply and water supply, create stability in the provision of consumer services, strengthen measures for the protection of central water and water supply facilities, and, in general, reduce social tensions in society caused by inefficient operation of drinking water companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u58	Please sign up for the question. The names of the national deputies please be placed on the information board. Valery Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u59	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u60	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u61	Thank you. But I've been written down. Dear Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, the drinking water situation in Ukraine today is at everyone's hearing what's called. And MPs are made up of different delegations abroad, and they know that the quality of drinking water is compared to what is in other countries, and among them I don't take the developed ones myself, and the middle developing countries are just not comparable. You know that. In many lands, restaurants or cafes are supplied with water from taps to the well - paying people. So that's what this says about the drinking water situation there. Say, please, and in your bill, which is obviously aimed at having the money to be able to actually clean the water, because drinking water is all there is to do, including maybe a new government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. I want to point out that among all sectors of utilities, water supplies and manufacturers and enterprises that supply water and water supply are probably in a discriminatory position. Why? Because if they are taking community service providers such as electric companies or heat companies, they have security measures, i.e. they have the right to exclude debtors from the provision of services. Unfortunately, the Water Channel company has not been granted such a right, i.e. for the time being, there is a situation where either a restaurant, or perhaps a hotel, or another private enterprise consumes no water and the Water Channel does not even have the power to influence these processes. As a result of the debt, someone has to pay for it, it's on the account of other businesses or populations, “Watercanals” don't have the money that is needed for the development of the sector, even for maintenance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u63	Sergey Gordijenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u64	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear reporter! You said that this bill is designed to ensure public policy in the water supply sector, you know, there's certainly no public policy in the water supply and water supply sector right now, as we have to a terrible state-of-the-art area of the municipal economy that is doing this in general. I would like to say with concern whether this bill deals with the issue of pollution of the horizons. That's why we need to inventory all those who extract water and give it to people. There's a trail of wells that don't work anymore. I wonder if your bill will decide to grant clear licenses and licenses for this activity and others so that the citizens of Ukraine will know.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u65	Thank you for asking me about licensing is not the subject of the bill. Regarding the protection and condition of water resources, it is also suggested that the principles of public policy in the field of drinking water and water supply be complemented by what you asked, precisely questions related to the water supply and sewage treatment system. And we're also adding to the public accounting tasks this is about studying and monitoring the state of the drinking water treatment plants, their productivity, the existing sewage treatment plants. And this will certainly allow both water - control authorities and the public to monitor and timely influence processes that have a negative impact on water.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u66	Thank you. The questions are over. Shershun Mikola Haritonovich, the first deputy chairman of the committee, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u67	The Honourable Head, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Committee on Environmental Policy for Environmental Use and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting on 9 September 2009, reviewed the draft law amending the Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water. Submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Gerasimchuk, Pavlenko, Golovchenk The bill is aimed at further streamlining the drinking water supply, removing existing gaps, creating conditions for more efficient operation of enterprises, drinking water supply and ensuring sustainable development, and water supply management for the Ukrainian population. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committees on Budget and European Integration do not see any obstacles to adopting this bill as a basis. And the suggestions made will be taken into account when preparing the project for second reading. The committee proposes to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water, on the basis of further work by the Committee. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u68	Please sign up for the questions, dear colleagues. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? No questions asked, sit down, please. Please sign up for the performance. Yes, I'm asking you to put the names on the information board. Valerius Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u69	Deputies! Today, there are and are absolutely transparent and clear relationships between organizations that supply gas, electricity, to citizens and legal persons. And that's no longer a problem. Nevertheless, in the relationship between utilities, which provides water for our water supply, we have total chaos. You don't have to pay for water, many heat-communeers use water from water canals and don't pay for the use of that raw material at all. Natural and legal persons can afford to use water from utilities not to be calculated with them. And so it leads to the bankruptcy of water and utilities. This bill regulates these matters. I personally, from our "Block of Lithuania" faction and the "Association of Cities" government, strongly ask you to support this bill, which will be one of the activities that will help to maintain order in our public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u70	Dear National Deputies! The bill is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the draft Law as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water. Please vote. [[11:07:33]] For 169 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for re-reading the draft law, registration number 4671. Please vote. [[11:08:01]] For 270. Decision taken. We voted again first. Ladies and gentlemen, the two factions are calling for a recess to be held by the Conciliation Council to reconcile the positions of the MPs, the faction of the Party of the Regions and the faction of the Communists. So, we're gonna take a break? Shall I make a statement or take a break? Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, given that our further action should be logical and consistent with the legislative field, today the Rules Committee considered amending the current Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And, Vladimir Mihajlovich, he's registered for number 6137/P, please put him in the room now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u72	Do you have everyone? That's not true. Not until a statement of questions is made. Anatoly Sergiyovich, this isn't a question. To the person who is speaking. Please don't scream! There is no question about the national MP who makes the statement. Do you agree with me? Here. Now, please, from faction to minute. I don't mind if I do, Anatoly Sergiyovich, please. Anyone who wants to speak on this matter has an exchange of thoughts. Huh? Anatoly Matvienko of the faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u73	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council" Block "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Well, you know, let's move around in the legislative field and first of all stick to the main law is the Constitution. First. We are in violation of the Rules, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, by the fact that the document is still hot and you are already putting this document or ready to be considered by the Supreme Council. First, we need to get to know him. We really need to verify all the standards that are proposed here as to whether they correspond to a valuable, valid Constitution. I'm already seeing a grave violation of the Constitution here. If we've decided to trample on the Constitution from day one after the coalition's closed and the government's retired, I don't know where we're going to stop. I would suggest that this document be similarly examined by the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u74	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u75	I think this document needs to be taken seriously. And it's from the opal that's being proposed that's unacceptable. I therefore propose not to put any vote but to move in accordance with the Rules to consider this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u76	What article of the Rules, as appropriate? Please call me back. Andrew School, please. There's already been a performance. Andrew School, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u77	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, I'll tell you what, if you rape the Constitution, let's do it clearly, but at least make the preparations. I mean, the rapist plans an attack first, and then he takes her into a dark room and rapes her there, gentlemen. If you are doing so well, remember your past. You are successful in organizing crimes and putting them to work. So please do it now. And by jumping in the way you act, you can't even do that because the potential may not be enough because we can rape the Constitution today, but Van won't be able to rape Ukraine and the Ukrainian people of the Lord what you're doing. Let's get out of here. You want to do one stroke now, one vote in the Supreme Council to ban society from running its elections in Parliament, because you're going to decide who is a coalition, who is not a coalition. The Constitution clearly states that coalitions form the majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u78	Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, yesterday we heard a report here with you in the former Prime Minister's Hall, which did not only inform the Constitution and all the laws of Ukraine, including by refusing to answer questions in the Hall yesterday, leaving the Cabinet of Ministers and withdrawing everyone from the Cabinet of Ministers of Workers. So you're hoping that the land of the street will continue to be, and we'll listen to your walls here different? [[Applause]] Now for the Constitution. I do not think that we, or our respected colleagues, who are here trying to talk about the Constitution, are in no position to evaluate legislation that is constitutionally available. There's a court, there's a court, there's a court, there's a court, there's a court, there's a court. And by the way. What do you know about one line that has been modified? She understands everyone. Let us therefore make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, please calm down. Who else insists on expressing their point of view from the faction? Now, fellow believers, let us go back to the Rules. I quote, article 20 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, paragraph 4, paragraph 8, paragraph 8: “Questions relating to the organization of work of the Supreme Council and its organs shall be included without a vote in the agenda of the day.” Any questions? But in addition to maintaining cleanliness, I'm putting to the vote a proposal to consider the draft regulation now. Well, we are. I want you. Dear national MPs and a distinguished colleague may have to decide with another question, then we'll go to your application. Calm down! Please! I'm voting on the proposal. Let the Supreme Council decide to consider the draft Law approving the amendments to article 61 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, please, vote. [[11:16:01]] For 231 Decision taken. Now. The factions? Please. Region Party – 171, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 4, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 7, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 19, “Afterfractional” – 3. Two factions: the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” and the BUT faction – called for a 30-minute recess to be held by the Conciliation Council. So I'm gonna call it a night? Is Conciliation Advice Needed? Needed or not? I'm asking you. I'm asking you. Dear colleagues, calm down! We have not yet begun our consideration of the matter. A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 11 hours 50 minutes. I'm asking the faction leaders to meet me in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the meeting of the Conciliation Council. The positions were divergent. I don't think we can look at this one. Oh, from the initiators? Please, Roman Zvarich. Then I will conclude that this bill cannot be considered. At the same time, we have a situation here that 231 deputies have made decisions to address this issue. So now Roman Zvaric has the floor from the initiators of the Conciliation Council. Meeting of the Conciliation Board.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u82	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to say right away that I'm not going to choose words. I'm going to say things and call them my names. What you're proposing to do now is the peak of cynicism and hypocrisy. So you really understand that what you're proposing is so clearly in conflict with the Constitution that you can't even find an argument to deny it. We're on the Conciliation Council today, I've told my colleagues, your factions leaders, that this is clearly contrary to the Constitution. The answer I get is, and you've been breaking the Constitution all this time, now it's our turn to break the Constitution. So we'd like to warn you, dear fellows, if you start with that, if you start with that, if you start your rule, that's the end of it, if you think this Parliament is going to work on this change, I can assure you that it won't work. On behalf of the democratic opposition, I would like to make it very clear to you: we assure you that if you make this decision, if in such a clear, obvious way you glue it to what you call your coalition, I give you my word that this part of the room will do its utmost to prevent this Parliament from working at that time and that coalition from working. So if you want to start with that, gentlemen, then we'll give you a proper answer to your actions. Don't do this. We warned you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u83	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention! At the Conciliation Council, we had two possible scenarios today. Or the Supreme Council will be consolidated and will work as hard as possible in accordance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine and there can be nothing that has been violated and now others will violate. Maximum in the legislative field. And only in the legislative field. Or, then, dear colleagues, the Supreme Council must decide on its own leave. [[B in m in s a l in]] But we don't want to work, and at the same time we can't compromise on how to get out of the corner where we are. Because that's what we've been up against, and now, obviously. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I want to say to those who scream one phrase, write it down: you can't even bite, you can only lick. [[Applause]] And calm down. I'm as tolerant as I can be with you. In order to avoid chaos and opposition, let us look for compromises. So once again I want to say, dear colleagues, and one more thing I want to say to you. Let's work without compiling political accounts. Today, the Conciliation Council asked if we would have a process of accounting. I said that we should not allow political accounts. There has to be a job and there has to be a result. Allow such a work to take place. And calm down. Now, since 231 people voted in favour of this issue, the issue is under review. We've started it. We need to finish our consideration of the matter, your honors. And I have a meeting at 12 o'clock. Alexander Lavrinovich will continue the meeting. Okay, I'll postpone the meeting. I'll be there. I'm putting it to a vote, my dear colleagues, so that we can finish this consideration. Please vote, I am referring to the draft law on the approval of amendments to article 61 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. Done, then declared recess, please vote. [[11:58:17]] For 228 Vote. Do you agree that a decision has been made? Now, under the reduced procedure, please vote. [[11:58:41]] For 227 Decision taken. Reporter, who? National MP Bondik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u84	Thank you. Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! First, a slight deviation from the bill. The previous speaker said, even that there are no such functions to decide for the Constitutional Court. So Roman Petrovich, you need to have respect for your status and not assume powers that are not legally binding on you. Dear colleagues! Your point is to make a slight change to the Act on Rules of Procedure, as part of article 61 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council. The changes, really small and you understand, if a mine has been laid in the Constitution, then as you think we should disarm this mine, so indeed, the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Constitution, is creating the MP factions according to the representative mandate that the people of Ukraine have entrusted us with. You think democracy is when a minority's right is not guaranteed, and I think it should be guaranteed, and where are the non-fractional ones that have come out of their factions? And so, dear colleagues, let me report, please pay attention to the comparative table, the law is small, the whole bill. Order the formation of a coalition of MP factions. Secondly, he doesn't need any budget allocations, it's a change to the rules. And I'm telling you once again that in accordance with the provisions of 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine in the Supreme Council, through elections and political reconciliation, a coalition of MP factions is formed, which consists of most of the national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council, as noted. Therefore, with a view to implementing the Constitution of Ukraine, I propose to adopt this short bill, but it is very supportive of the State. Thank you for your attention, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u85	Please, the chairman of the committee, Alexander Sergiyovich, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u86	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, of the draft law proposes to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation approved by the law of Ukraine by means of a new edition of article 61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. As stated in the explanatory note on the new draft Law of Ukraine, a new edition of article 61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules will serve to regulate the formation of a coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include a draft Ukrainian law in the agenda of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In article 3, add to the personal signatures of the national deputies that were previously done. And to adopt this bill as a basis, as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u87	Have a seat, please. Please sign up for the performance. I'd like you to print your name and board. Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u88	Dear head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I believe that the situation that we have today in society -- in the work of the Supreme Council -- does not satisfy the electorate or the majority of the people's deputies. I would like to remind you that two years ago, when this vocation was formed, every national MP gave an oath of allegiance to the Ukrainian people to the people. [[Not the heads of the factions, by the way.]] I am convinced that we must ensure the effective work of Parliament. Because people don't care what coalition they care about today to pay their wages so that they feel protected in the country to work production to solve social problems. I think it's important for us not only to hear a sentence here in Parliament when we've been accused of violating the Constitution, but that the rule of law and democracy, that it's when, with the false diploma of the minister of justice, it's a responsibility that has been lobbying private interests for the transit of its own wife's oil. [[I'd like to remind you of the previous NS-NS speaker.]] That when official crimes that have taken place are brought to account. I am therefore convinced that it is important for us to protect the right of a deputy, to participate in the development of states in solving socio-economic problems. I am convinced that these rules will allow Parliament to work, to form a responsible government, and to bring about the disorder in the country that you leave behind, in fact today it provides you with only one question: avoiding responsibility. And we want to build real Ukraine and real democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u89	I would ask only the national deputy of Konovaluk to speak on the subject of personal relations. Ivan Kirilenko, please. Vladimir Filenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u90	Mr. Head! Your last line gives me the right to tell you that you do not teach us how to lick and suck. That's the first one. Now it's said that Litwin has a "freeze-2". Nothing like that, in a village like Litwin, we were called "frozens". Now here's to the third situation. Alexander Efraemov tells us: “Go to the Constitutional Court and judge, though a year, two, three. ” Mr. Alexander, I don't need to go to the Constitutional Court, because I can read and I have the Constitution in my hands and it's clearly written here that the coalition is formed from the MP factions, and you want to put more deputies there. Next, read the explanation of the Constitutional Court. And the third. Here Konovaluk stood on the rostrum and said that we had sworn allegiance to the Ukrainian people. Recently your leader here, President Janukovic, stood and held his hand here, there was a Bible and there was a Constitution and he said he would protect it. You guys are making a terrible mistake! The President of Ukraine, Janukovic, the guarantor of the Constitution, will never sign your amendments to the Law and you are “obsessing”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u91	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense", Viacheslav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u92	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Well, we're sorry that the new president starts by repeating what he's been through. We all remember in the spring of 2007, when the coalition was formed legitimately. But the coalition in the simple majority of the people's deputies of Yanukovic and then the Party of the Regions were few, and he took steps to have 300 or more national deputies, just to form these 300 and more in an unconstitutional way. All of this was accomplished by successive parliamentary elections and the departure of Yanukovich from power. Now it's repeating itself, just a little bit on a smaller scale. Now it's not even 226 anymore, and it's a little bit smaller. What should we do? It is correct to adopt such a law that is approved in contravention of the direct law of the Constitution of Ukraine and to sign the law. Then the question is, why did the new president talk about new power? Why did the new president talk about the new quality of politics and many other things outside of attractive things, but which would not be done in principle, but would be done the other way around. That's why we don't play games like this. We're not going to support a bill that directly violates the Constitution. This means that the present decisions that are proposed for approval in this way cannot be supported. And we're saying that whoever talks about stability, national values and Ukrainian position can never begin with a violation of the Constitution. One who speaks of the unity of the country cannot divide the Parliamentary Hall in half and then the same country. The one who gathers for understanding cannot begin in Parliament and in misunderstandings. So we say, do the coalition as you wish. The group “For Ukraine! ” will still not enter. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u93	Dear National Deputies! The bill is closed. The factions have already come from the factions. We've already made our appearance. The Communist faction did not take advantage of the right to speak. One minute. Please. Calm down. You've already spoken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! The oranges started with a lie, they ended with a lie, and that's why I took the Constitution with me. Please, respected journalists, respected citizens and read the 83 articles in which it is said. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine forms a coalition of MPs, consisting of the majority of Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council, based on the results of the elections and the reconciliation of political positions.” [[to Coalition]] There is no indication that these deputies are members of those factions that initiate its creation. Consider if you still have something to think that the Supreme Council may have 10 factions, three of them to the Government, the Supreme Council, a people's program with which most of the deputies who came from other parties will agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u95	Finish up. Dear colleagues, there has been a performance. Everyone has come out of the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, they're here. Dear colleagues, we've been looking at a reduced procedure. Calm down. Before the vote, in summary, I'll just say one thing. No matter what the practice here is, the chaos of sowing will not allow anyone. Control yourself. No one will allow it. The country will work. All of it. And now, honourable colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a bill based on the draft Law amending some of the legislation. Excuse me. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law approving amendments to article 61 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6137]] Please vote. [[12:11:34]] For 229 Decision taken. In general, the honourable colleagues, if there's a denial, I'll put it. Is there a denial? I'll put it to a vote to prepare for the second reading by a reduced procedure. Please vote on the preparation for the second reading under the short procedure of the draft law. [[Registration number 6137]] [[12:12:06]] For 230 Decision taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I continue this morning's plenary session. Announcing the question of the election of judges. Reports the head of the committee of Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u97	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, the distinguished ones present! The Supreme Council Committee on Justice at its meeting on 3 March 2010 considered the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to appoint judges on an indefinite basis and the election of judges previously elected on an open-ended basis, as well as the submission of the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of judges under general conditions. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. You're all very familiar with the procedure. Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 6138. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: Sacks District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Romanyuk Evgen Viktorovich; The Tivrov district court of the Winnitsk district of Mazurczak Anatolia Grigorovich; The Luboml district court of the Volin district of Mosiyevich Igor Vadimovich; The Austrian city court of the Donetsk region of Heidar Andrija Volodymirovich; Malinsky District Court of Žitomir, Tarasenko Mikola Petrovich; The Hustian District Court of the Zakarpatsk district of Savitsky Sergey Anatoliyovich; Czernigów District Court of Zaporozhye District of Podu Natalija Mikolayovna Sambir City Court of Lviv Region Kazan Igor Stepanovich, Ptashinski Igor Anatoliyovich; Kotov District Court of the Odessa Region of Ivinsky Oleg Olegovich; The Saratsk District Court of the Odessa district of Kojokar Tetjan Yakovna; The Global District Court of Poltava District of Maruschak Raís Mikolaynowna; The Komsomol city court of Poltava district of Butenko Svetlana Borisovna; The Novosanjar District Court of Poltava Region Ivka Volodymira Mikolajovic; The Orgitsky District Court of the district of Poltav Region of Smilyan Evgeny Anatoliyovich; Poltava District Court of Poltav district of Putru Olga Grigorovna; The Kyiv District Court of Poltava Antonova Andrija Volodymirovich; The October District Court of Poltava, Ridko Galina Volodymyrna; The Sarnen district court of the district of Vedina Tetjana Alexandrovna; Ochtyr District Court of Suma District of Kovalova Olen Alexandrovna; The Kharkov District Court of Moroz Alexandr Ivanovich; The Gornostiv District Court of the Herson district of Posunko Galin Andriyovna; The Novocahovian City Court of the Hersonian Region of Boyko Marina Eugenyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u98	Sergei Vasilovich, stop. Last name?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u99	Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u100	Boyko?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u101	The Biological District Court of the Hmelnick district of Greenchuk Ruslan Stepanović; The hops of the Regional Court of Hmelnitsk Region of Bolotov, Eugene Volodymyrovich; Shepetov City Court of the Hmeljna District of Gubish Oksana Antonovna; Mankow district court of the Cherka district of Xenofontov Vladimir Sergiyyovich; Dniprovsky District Court of Kiev Savluk Tetjanu Vasilovna Please support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u102	Apart from the question of Marina Eugenyev Boyko, there are no questions? If there are no questions, then I'm putting to the vote a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges except for Boyko Marina Eugene. [[registration number 6138]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:53:12]] For 204 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u103	We didn't make it. We have to go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u104	Please check in with the decision - making procedure. Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u105	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, according to the Rules, you can place the chairman of the session. Again, because the MPs couldn't vote. I ask you to put and return to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u106	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u107	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I think that the election and release of judges should not depend on the trials that are taking place in Parliament. This is our constitutional mission, this is our authority. I think we should vote so that the judges can work properly and perform their functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u108	The sand is Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u109	Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich! The question is, none of the national deputies had claims against other candidates. Where there are claims, let's ask a question. And after everything else, let's go back and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u110	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u111	I support the point of voting. I'm asking you to pay attention to the big butt democracy that is now sitting somewhere again, coming into the hall soon, covering their jobs with a yellow and blue flag, and that's where their democracy ends. Let's support the proposal for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u112	Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u113	I don't know what political powers the judges are, but I know they're judges. And so it's very sad that there's no beaters in the room that support these people. I think we need to go back to voting and support people who have no comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I'm proposing to the national deputies Bondick, Popescu, Dreygo, Stoyan to return to the decision to elect judges. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:55:48]] For 242 Decision taken. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council ruling on the election of judges, with the exception of Marina Eugene Boyko. [[Registration number 6138]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:56:16]] For 248 Decision taken. Please, the question was before Judge Boyko Marina Eugenena, the Malokhakov City Court of the Hersonian Region. Samolica Katerina Seminovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u115	I have no questions for the judge. I have an appeal to the Ukrainian National Deputies! You remember, I called you and asked you not to vote in favour of this judge and I told you about how a woman over 90 years of age, a concentration camp prisoner, a partisan movement participant, practically Judge Boyko's decision, and then Matthew's, by the way, which letter I wrote to the menace that I was misbehaving. Boyko. who have practically solved the issue in such a way that this elderly woman with the merit of the 65th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War has lost her own home. She lived in a canoe at the water tower, and now she's staying in the church. I don't have any questions to the judge, I'm going to the Ukrainian national deputies: please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u116	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u117	Please tell me, can Mrs. Boyko be a judge if this is how she dealt with this woman, whom we should all bow our heads to?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u118	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! Dear Catherine of Simeon! Unfortunately, you weren't on the committee last night. We've been handling this judge perfectly. She really didn't have anything to do with the sad way you said it, and, by the way, there were other judges making decisions and there was both a case and an appeal, that is, a judicial error corrected. And that's ethical, besides the professional component, the ethical question, in Cannes on 8 March, you can probably amnesty. I propose to vote in favour of this poor judge, who has been without authority for two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u120	Sergei Vasilovich, point of view of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, we considered this issue yesterday at a committee meeting. I suggest that you listen to the judge so that she can respond to what she said yesterday at our committee meeting. That's the facts, they didn't prove it, but that's how much we have. We found out how much we were able to find out, and the vote was in favour of that judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u122	Please explain. Marina Eugene Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Catherine Andriyevna. It's a family thing. I'm just worried, I'm sorry. With regard to this decision, I can explain the following. This was my decision back in 2004. There is no relation to eviction, not to housing at all. The decision was to raise funds for a well - earned asset. These funds are determined by the law that they have to be charged, and I have no other way out. So this is probably the basic principle of justice that everyone is equal before the law. And I haven't considered any questions about housing relations. And besides, I can tell you for sure, right now, this data is on the committee, in all the other institutions that checked these complaints, that this woman who wrote the complaint, no one sent it to this time. Even after the court's decision in 2009, she lives in the same house, no one sent her out. They settle in a peaceful way the question is, these are the appropriate acts that you have also been given. In addition, I want to point out that my decision was passed by both the Appeals Service and the Supreme Court. It has not been changed, has not been cancelled, nor has it been modified. Therefore, I ask you simply to approach the matter fairly, considering that this complaint arose after a five - and - a - half - year flood. Clearly, it's just a desire to make a negative impression on you about my candidacy. It has become valid, so it is legal. I made no illegal decisions. I also want to point out that in five years I have been dealt with about 13,000 cases, that is over 300 cases a month, and no complaints, no disciplinary fees for this job. So I ask you very carefully to come to this question and allow me to continue to work, to exercise justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u124	Please, is there another question for the candidate? There's a question about Catherine Seminal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u125	If I didn't have a court decision on my hands, I wouldn't say anything about it, what was the plot, how it all happened between the courts, between the document-makers. Right, you just presented 50,000 dollars to this elderly woman, she has to pay for the so-called repairs, and then everything else was. She doesn't live in her house, and she came to see me in the New Kachovka. Indeed, it is a pity to look at it. I don't press Ukraine's national MPs, let the newlyweds listen, let them vote. But our faction will never vote for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, communication is over. Please make an offer to the head of the committee, Sergio Vasilovich Kiwalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u127	Dear Valentina Semenovna! Dear colleagues! Catherine Semenovna, I'm sorry, for God's sake. I'm sorry. I would like to ask if we could take another look at the committee meeting, invite Catherine Semenovna again, and study further. Because today I see appointed deputies not to vote. Let's do this -- put it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u128	Is there no objection to moving the matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u129	There's no objection. Moves to the next plenary session after further consideration by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u131	Please, next draft of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u132	Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 6139. The Committee recommends that Bondarenko Sergio Ivanovich, who was previously elected on an open-ended basis, be appointed judge of the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u133	Is there a question for a reporter or a judge? None. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decision on the election of a judge. [[Registration number 6139]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:04:01]] For 233 Decision taken. Your Honor, congratulations on your election as judges on an open-ended basis. I wish you good decisions, good health, and confidence in your actions. Now the issue of the release of judges is under review. Please report to Sergei Vasilovich Kiwalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u134	The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine release judges: the Court of Appeal of Dnipropetrovska Gokov Peter Volodymyrovich - in connection with the application for resignation; Shabanova Mikola Sergiyovich - in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai district of Timoszewski, Vladimir Petrovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Bahchisarai District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Belski Volodymyr Ivanovich - in connection with the application for resignation; The Jankoj Regional Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Volodymyr Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Delinquent District Court of Crimea, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Olen Mikolayevna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension; The Feodosian City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Panchenko Olga Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Toreske City Court of the Donetsk Region of Katrušina Anatolia Mikhajlovich - in connection with the application for exemption at your own request; The Melitopol Regional Court of Zaporozhye Region of Glewska Natalija Vasilovna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension; Zaporozhye Semikin Vadim Vitaliyovich, Communiar District Court, in connection with the application for resignation; Makarov District Court of the Shatkovsky region, Sergija Vitaliyovich, in connection with the application for a state of health pension; Alchev City Court of Luhansk district Zalmanov Wallery Mikhajlovich - in connection with the application for resignation; The Krivoozer district court of the Mikolai district of Dullier Anatoly Ivanovich - in connection with the application for exemption at his own request; Mikolayeva Macula Alexander Mikolayovica, factory district court, in connection with the application for resignation; Ishmael Regional Court of Odessa, Toptygina Mikola Lavrentiovich, in connection with the application for resignation; and the Lipowodoline District Court of the district of Sumsk, Rošticky Mikol Andriyovich, in connection with the application for resignation. Please support this bill, draft Supreme Council decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u135	Any questions for the reporter? No questions asked. I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges. [[Registration number 6140]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:07:46]] For 235 Decision taken. A draft Law is being announced for consideration. Just a moment, Your Honor, before you consider the next question, a replica of the Yulia Timoshenko faction Lasko Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u136	Thank you. Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Before considering the issue of judges, the question of amending article 61 of the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council Rules, which referred to the Botanical faction, was discussed, so the Rules give us the right to a replication. The reporter, Valérie Bondick, said that the Constitution had a mine to destroy today. You can pick up the transcript and read it. Then eliminate the Constitution at all if it interferes with you. As you can see, Mr. Dry is threatening to eliminate me now, isn't he? What will they do when they come to real power? When they're not in power right now, they're already threatening to get rid of them. Therefore, double standards do not need to be applied. Three weeks ago, you told me that if there was a coalition, today you're adopting a law that would cancel those votes in general. This is cynicism, as the unforgettable Leonid Danilovich put it. Do not do this, fellow believers, and break the Constitution from the beginning of your rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u137	A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on increasing requirements for the production and circulation of children's food and on the establishment of responsibility]] Registration number 3457. The Royal Natalia Yuriovna reports. There's no reporter in the session room. Correspondence from the Committee of the Baychev Tetjana Dmitrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! The proposed draft law of Natalia Královska was considered by our committee in March 2009 and was considered by a representative of the Academy of Medical Sciences, the Ministry of Health and the Association of Child Nutrition Manufacturers. [[No. 3457]] The bill proposes to amend the Child Nutrition Act and the Code on Administrative Offences. We are grateful to Natalia Juryovna for such an initiative, because these issues are now very relevant and must be addressed. Unfortunately, however, some of the changes proposed in the draft on child nutrition could not be supported by medical evidence. This has already been discussed at our meeting by the leading Ukrainian experts in this area. It is thus proposed that vegetable fats and stabilizers should be prohibited in the production of infant food. It's in article 9. The prohibition of the use of vegetable fats in children's foods not only has no scientific basis, but may even be negative in the health of our children and especially newborns. Plant fats are a natural source of polyunsaturated fatty acids, which are an important component for nutrition. And if such fats are not found in food, children may develop liver disease, gastrointestinal tract, and allergic reactions. Such prohibitions should therefore be very differentiated and should be applied to generally accepted scientific data, as is the case with international normative instruments, EU directives and code standards. We doctors have a rule: first of all, don't get hurt. We therefore believe that, even with the noblest and most humane goals of the bill, there should be no explicit approach to the prohibitions imposed at the legislative level. Our committee does not support the draft law, does not support the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, which also recommends finalization. Therefore, please support our committee and send this bill to be finalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u139	Is there a question for the reporter? No questions asked. Please, Aunt Dmitry, sit down. Let's sign up for a discussion. Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, please. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u140	Thank you. Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. I immediately propose to support the proposal of the committee and the rapporteur, Auntie Dmitry, to withdraw this bill from the following considerations. In order for our children to eat properly, we need to produce 1 million 400,000 tons of baby food. This government, which we finally retired last night, reduced the production of children's food eight times for the Ukrainian people in two years, I say, for our children and our mothers, eight times. So today, Ukraine produces only 11,000 tons of baby food in a year when needed, I repeat, 400,000 tons. So we're going to discuss and decide what doesn't exist. We need food in general to adopt the law and to enforce the laws that we already have. So it's true that this bill has to be rejected. And now he's being followed by a bill of understanding on the subject, so let's talk about it and make a decision. And this bill is off-limits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u141	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u142	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, the very name -- it seems to take a soul -- to increase the requirements for the production and circulation of children's food and to establish responsibility. Indeed, these requirements need to be strengthened. And do you know, your honor, that children's diet today also uses genetically modified organisms? [[I'll use the opportunity to speak.]] That's the first one. The other one. You know, the tests that are done by the relevant institutions, the relevant committees, I mean protecting the rights of the consumer and the State Standard, establish that there are simply harmful substances in the dairy product for children? And in this regard, I would like to draw the attention of my distinguished colleagues, who are now going on in mysterious ways. Not long ago, we passed the law, and we passed the law in general: the need for labelling food that contains or does not contain genetically modified organisms. And there's obviously a powerful lobbyist job going on right now to make it happen. to fight this law in order to limit the range of products to which GMOs should be present, which should not be indicated if GMOs are not present in these products and so on. This is done boldly, it is done for obvious reasons, for everyone understands that it is easier, cheaper, to produce GMO products, and they sell them as if they were normal, environmentally clean products. So I agree with the proposal that this bill, which is now being proposed, should be carefully looked at and not rushed into its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u143	The discussion is over. I am betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3457]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:17:14]] For 1 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Children's Nutrition Act is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4584]] Reports Bachelor's Tetjana Dmitrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u144	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Child Nutrition Act of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to strengthen the requirement for the production and implementation of children's food products, to address the contradictions that exist today between Ukrainian and international legislation, and to specify the requirements for the labelling of children's food products. The Ukrainian Act was passed in our country on 14 September 2006, and since then there has been a need for some specificization, some changes to some articles, which I have worked with representatives and the Academy of Medical Sciences, and with the Ministry of Health. It is very difficult to overestimate all these important issues today. In our country, between 450,000 and 500,000 children are born each year. Unfortunately, 50 per cent is on artificial feeding. It is therefore very important for these children that these products always be of good quality because their continued health depends on it. Unfortunately, according to statistics, children in the 19th grade of the disease have fifth place in the gastrointestinal tract. And in 2008, 150 children under the age of three became disabled by stomach diseases. Therefore, it is very important today that we understand that food, quality of products will be a guarantee of the health of our children, of course, and of the future of the nation. The bill was also approved by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, the Committee for European Integration. According to the Budget Committee, the bill would have no impact on the income or expenditure portion of the budget. And we believe that the introduction of this bill will only improve the quality of child nutrition products, improve their safety and health of children of early age. Please support the draft bill and accept it as the basis for the first reading, because, during the period when the bill was registered, there are a lot of treatments coming from public organizations from producers. And for second reading, we also have a big but important job to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u145	Please sign up for the question. Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u146	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Aunt Dmitry, we thank you for this initiative, supported, indeed, by both the medical community and the people involved in food production. But you have a question, in point one, you're offering among the list of food products containing soybeans. Because we know that the soybean is the product that has the largest part of the genetically modified products, and it's definitely going to have to be removed or refined. And another question about the production of baby food. Because in Ukraine, really, the number was called 8 times the last number of decreases. There are virtually no clean zones left in Ukraine. And that's why you're trying to strengthen the area of responsibility and production in what's called raw zones, but also how do you feel about the total ban on building any object, not just industrial or industrial.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u147	Thank you very much, Vladimir Grigoryevich. It is true that today, in the legislation that we have, children's food products are allowed to be produced independently of the place where the plant is located or there may be a store that today makes children's food. In my bill, it will be a special ecologically clean zone, for which there will be only final supervision, including not only of food, but also of products that will be grown specifically for the use of child nutrition. Today, the main issue remains whether a child food shortage is needed. Ukraine is today the only country that prohibits the use of carnage in children's foods. But it's completely wrong, it's proven today by the Academy of Medical Sciences and the Ministry of Agra. Because in the amount that can be allowed to do so, little and soy products are even necessary. They sometimes form a consistency.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u148	Cord Vitaly Terentiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u149	I'll be asked the question of Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u150	Dear Tatiana Dmitrievna! Dear colleagues! We are all well aware of the need to amend the Child Nutrition Act and the non-compliance of the Act today with the requirements that exist. But a great request for the amendments that you are making, and we have discussed with you in advance this issue, that we do not object to further reading, that we unite the two bills, my bill and your bill, because I have listened to some of the people's MPs here, and we are already trying to politicize children's food. I would like us to do this here in a relatively humane way and to protect the rights of our children, first and foremost. As for the issue of special environmental zones, it is necessary to adopt certain criteria. And I would like to support a colleague who has spoken before that construction in the environmental zones of industrial enterprises, chemical enterprises, is unacceptable. And we have to spell it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u151	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u152	Natalia Jurievna, we have already discussed with you and today you have heard that we do not categorically say that your bill, but it does have what it takes, and we are ready to work out a second reading together because that is what special environmental zones and the absence of GMOs and chemicals and dyes are indicated. But in some cases it is necessary because there are children who suffer from diabetes and need special sucrose products. That is why this issue remains debated to date, but it is being decided in conjunction with yours and my bill. I think that this will only be done in a manner that is appropriate and will be consistent with both Ukrainian and international standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u153	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u154	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Aunt Dmitry, as a young grandfather, I sincerely thank you for preparing such a bill because it really needs this problem of settlement. I'm interested in two questions. First. As far as this bill, because I've looked at it, I've looked at it, and I've seen that there are, in fact, very, very many of the terms purely scientific that define what are children's products, which are children's products for which categories, for which age categories of children and so on. So the question is, how much was medical science working on this bill, so it wasn't just a bill of national MPs to make it the word of experts? And the second. If I understand correctly, indeed, from the previous bill, the committee is in the process of regulating the positive standards that are there when preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u155	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Clearly, it is not just a bill that has a great need, it is mass treatment. And as a doctor, I especially see children who are on artificial feeding today. Unfortunately, we have children's water, Little One, which is completely out of control. It may be issued near any plant, along with any very unfavourable ecological zone. Therefore, the main objective is only a very professional approach to this issue. And the fact that the Academy of Medical Sciences and the Ministry have been involved is yes, and we will work out a very and very good bill on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u156	Weaver Roman Volodymyrovich will give his question and the question of National Deputy Kendzior, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u157	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine! ” Aunt Dmitrovna, I'm here. Dear Tetiano Dmitrovno, I clearly support your bill and support exactly what you say we are now taking as a basis. And then I have, really, an observation, there to expand a certain circle, children, for example, under 18 years of age, baby food. But in principle, I have a question about the idea of a bill, but it's not in this bill, and I want to ask a little bit more. We had a meeting of the Agrarian Policy Committee, somewhere in the last session, that raised a question like GMOs. And that's when the question came up. Ukraine is one of those countries where control of products that, for example, enters into production is controlled by the veterinary service. And then, as the process of production and consumption goes on, it's controlled by the station that's in the knowledge of the Ministry of Health. So for today, production, which goes into processing and is already ready, is controlled by two different plants. That's basically not right. It has this control structure in some kind of knowledge, or it's in the Ministry of Health, or it's in the Ministry of Health, which is more likely to happen. Yes, in principle, there are also in Europe. So what is your opinion as an expert in this matter so that this control structure is in the same knowledge? And then we can say, really, for quality and not just baby food, but basically for quality food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u158	Thank you very much. Indeed, what you have said makes sense to work on this issue. But the fact that every law we have is controlled, and we have the Penal Code, and we have law enforcement agencies, and that's why it's important that this be done clearly. Indeed, with regard to the charge of responsibility of one ministry, it is very important and we will work on it truly, with great public opinion and, above all, the opinion of the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u159	Thank you, Aunt Dmitry. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u160	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, the honourable colleagues, in my opinion, may agree with the basic positions of the proposed bill, at least coming out of the three positions that I think are absolutely correct in it. First. The requirements are set for the safety and quality of children’s foods, and these requirements are extended to drinking water intended for the preparation of baby drinks. This is an absolutely important norm, since this is not always the case today, and you realize that if drinking water is the basis and it is inequitable, what quality of diet can be discussed. Second position, correct. The law on the inability to use child - food products from genetically modified organisms has been clarified. But here I have a question about what the honourable author of Tetjana Dmitrovna's legislative initiative said the soybean was useful. In principle, it may be useful, but, dear colleagues, ask the experts, more than 90 percent of all soybeans in Ukraine are genomodized and contain GMOs, and this will go into baby food. This will need to be corrected before the second reading. And third, the right position. There has been a ban on the use of certain raw materials in the manufacture of food products such as meat, fish, birds, and so forth, which have been subjected to refreezing. It's absolutely the right thing to do. And the only thing I think is that this should be extended to all products, because any expert will say that when the product is frozen again, it not only neutralizes all the useful substances, but it also has a harmful load on the human body, it's freezing again, it's the right thing to do. But one position I would like the author himself to change in preparation for the second reading. In particular, the term “child nutrition”. It contains a list of the ingredients of which children’s foods are made. What is the basis for this? On grains, on grain-milks, on fish-plants and so on, and so on. But I think it would have to be included here, in addition to what is a child’s diet, which is also made up of it, and what are the necessary safety parameters. And they also have to be defined in this term. That is, the appropriate composition of children’s foods should be determined by professionals in the field for their safety, and this should also be indicated. On the whole, you can take it as a basis, you have to work more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u161	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u162	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, we support the adoption of this important law on the basis of which we emphasize its weight. Because the first edition was adopted in 2006. And I point out that, despite the high demands on child food production and in the EU, in recent years outbreaks of disease have been caused by child nutrition itself. Therefore, even globally known companies as the Swiss firm Nestle, not to mention flashes that mass, which even caused criminal responsibility, until the death penalty of children's food producers in China. Therefore, given the things that are in Ukraine and in the industrial production of baby food, there is a need to increase the production of raw materials, the industrial production of infant food, circulation, and labelling. Because mistakes are. These at each stage can lead to unpredictable situations. However, 40 percent of children in Ukraine have up to 6 months of age, they take a mix, and if they take children up to 3 years of age, that's almost a million children, while the disease in the stomach is increasing every year and it's almost 4 percent, 4 percent. So, really, and all of this is in this law, and terminology is in line with the Code. which works in the EU, and the definition of a ban, a clear ban on dyes, sweeteners and so on, all of these products that are used in the preparation of other food products are very important, but I think that the law still needs to be worked out with the Academy of Medical Sciences, and with the professional institutions, with the Ministry of Agricultural Production, and this is really going to be required by Ukraine's law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u163	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u164	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! The project proposes to amend the Ukrainian Children's Nutrition Act to increase the requirements for infant food, to ensure the safety of the raw material used for the production of such products, for their industrial production, and for the circulation and labelling of children's foods, and so on. The company’s children’s diet, article 1 of the project, contains a list of certain foods or ingredients from which children’s food is produced: grain, grain, milk, fish and vegetable base, etc., herbal tea, tea based on soy protein and hydrolysed proteins, etc. We believe that the law should determine the requirements for the conformity of children’s foods with the mandatory safety option for sanitation, technical regulations, and so on. The appropriate composition of a child’s food should be determined by the experts in the field and approved at the level of the regulatory regulations. On this basis, the faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to adopt, in its first reading, the bill of the Head of the Committee for Health Care of the Bahtey’s Aunt Dmitry and, indeed, the most thorough proposals of the bill of Natalia Royal to be taken into account in the process of preparing for the second reading of the law so that the law is really close to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u165	Royal Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, there are millions of people in our country today who are not protected from quality food. Our children are the most vulnerable today. And the slogan: "All the best children," unfortunately, went into the distant past. And our task today is to make every effort to finalize the bill as much as possible and to maximize all barriers to counterfeit production, to ensure that unquality production, which is not controlled by the State, does not enter our domestic market today. You and I are all well aware of the scandal that arose after the prosecutor's office suspended the certificates of child nutrition. And after that, we are now at risk of flooding the internal market with poor quality smuggling products. And the current law that is in force does not prevent such an alarming situation. And the current Child Nutrition Act contains a number of shortcomings. As I said before, it allows for the use of raw materials for the production of questionable foods, no requirement for the production of raw materials in special commodity zones, pesticides and agrochemicals are allowed, the law allows the use of dyes, stabilizers, preservatives, flavourers, which is often harmful to the health of our children. Industrial construction is also allowed in special areas, which has a critical impact on agro-climate and environmental conditions in special zones. What measures do we propose? First: the construction of any manufacturing, industrial facilities is prohibited in special zones. The use of pesticides and agrochemicals by dyes is unacceptable today in the production of children's food. Yes, there may be exceptions to special diabetic diets, specialized products, but this should be an exception to those types of products that are characteristic, but not for the widespread consumption of children and the placing on the market. Child nutrition, if the package is damaged, is also not acceptable today, which is often in trade today. Therefore, we also insist on strengthening responsibility for the production, production and treatment of food for children who do not meet the quality and safety requirements. And I am convinced that the draft law on the protection of children from malnutrition must be applied urgently and without delay. And our faction believes that if all amendments to the tightening of the norms and requirements for second reading are approved and adopted, we will necessarily support the bill in second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u167	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the question is both complex and appropriate and interesting. With what? You see, there is no doubt that this bill should be adopted in the first reading. But it's too one-sided to solve the problem. Before requiring child - food products, improving their quality, you must have a subject and a subject to whom these requirements are made. We no longer have a country to which to place these requirements. There are two combinations of children’s food production: Horolski, Baltic, and they die. And if we make them higher demands, they will be even more self - worth. And even those 11,000 tons, nobody's going to buy because there's not going to be any competition. And that's it, and 11,000 won't happen. Where am I going? Let's go to second reading and work on budget funding, and realize that children's food products, the enterprises they produce, they're going to be in the state forever. And they're up to 15 to 17 percent of their profitability, and they're working in such conditions that every food industry is going to try to become a competitor for the production of children's food. That's when the other laws come in. I'll remind you that we have seven laws that work, starting with health-veterinary requirements, require that there be children's food, and not only are they quality. But give me the answer: on every milkcombination, on an ice cream company, there's a veterinarian, a health doctor, so why does this company release 90 percent of the ice cream that doesn't have animal fat there, but palm oil that comes from somewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u169	Oh! Because let's look at it in a complex way, and if we don't adopt a complex law, then it's not going to make sense from this bill. But now we thank our esteemed colleague Aunt Dmitry for such an initiative, and we will expand it, weigh it, and this law will work, and our children will not get sick from eating unquality food. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u170	The discussion is over. Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a committee to vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Children's Nutrition Act. [[Registration number 4584]] Please vote. [[13:43:45]] For 242 Decision taken. A draft Law on Amendments is being announced for consideration. there is a proposal for the next draft of the Law to be considered in summary procedure. The proposal of the National Deputies of Arjevetin and Zebrovski is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. The following question will be considered in summary. [[13:44:23]] For-45 Offer not supported. We're looking at the full procedure. A draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices is being announced for consideration. Registration number 5506. Victor Petrovich Corge reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u171	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! The drafting of the law is due to the fact that the changes we adopted in May 2009 to article 12 of the Law on Medical Devices extend to all without exception to medical devices. At the same time, in Ukraine, the number of visually impaired persons now stands at about 0.1 percent of the population, of whom about 40,000 have Braille reading methods. At the request of the country’s farmers, after consulting the Blind Association, after a committee discussion, we offer some restrictions, taking into account European practices. In particular, to distribute restrictions on a number of drugs that are used only by doctors under hospital or hospital conditions, to extend Braille to medicines that are dispensed in pharmacies for blind patients. It's absolutely, 100 percent, it's proposed to provide. The procedures and procedures for the identification of medical devices that are not marked with Braille are carried out by the Ministry of Health. I note that in the European Union, Braille markings do not require solution for intravenous administration except for insulin, radioactive pharmaceuticals, and anesthetics. Thus, the extension of the Braille requirement to all except medical supplies is to some extent mistaken. The amendments proposed by the bill on medicinal products conform to international law and are harmonized with European legislation. Making the proposed changes to article 12 of the Act will help to optimize the labelling of medical devices within the limits of needs and will leave them to the blind and to those who do not. Considering that the proposals proposed are logical and understandable, please adopt the law as a whole and enter into force on the day of its publication. This really refers to literally two or three phrases that are discussed both with the Ministry of Health and with the deputy corps. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u172	Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u173	Thank you. Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Victor Petrovich, you say those drugs that are sold at the station do not make Braille. How do you know where the drugs that are sold at the station are not sold at the station? That's the first one. The other one. You're saying that blind people's pharmacies should have Braille medicine, and there wouldn't be any other pharmacies. So that the blind have no right or will they be deprived of access to another pharmacy? I mean, it seems to me, with this reference to the EU directive, which is much easier to do, to take the same EU directive and rewrite it for our purposes. Why come up with a wheel?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u174	First, I'd like you to take a close look at this amendment in the comparative table. Secondly, there is a clear need to understand that the drugs for the blind, Braille, will be out of all pharmacies throughout the range. But we want the health department, the Ministry of Health, to identify those drugs that don't need to be branded: anesthesiological drugs, infusion drugs, radiological drugs -- they're not used on a retail network, they're only used in hospitals, just reanimatologists and stuff. These categories of drugs are and they don't need this marking. It's our common position and ministries, and that's how we do it in Europe, both with manufacturers and with the opinion of a profile committee. No problem. And indeed, the process of transition to this branding in Europe has been going on for eight years, gradually. We do this in a more concise way, at the request of the Association and the producers of our countrymen and blind associations. All of this is agreed upon, and there is no question here that is said to be questionable. Trust me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u175	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u176	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear Victor Petrovich, I can't figure it out for myself. Please answer. I realize that there are imperative requirements for European legislation to ensure the rights and guarantees of blind people, not to say blind but blind. But how is it going to be worth the cost of making the drugs that our domestic drug manufacturers are producing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u177	We, and by adopting the first law, where we were co-authors, and by making these changes, we had a series of consultations with the farmers. And first of all, what did we ask them about, wouldn't that be reflected in the further cost of drugs that we can't assume? To minimize this, therefore, deadlines have been set for a peaceful transition to this marking. Secondly, it is impossible not to implement it because, unfortunately, these people are sick and there are urgent situations. So, first of all, in the home pharmacies, there should be emergency medications that will be equipped with this, and gradually this will be resolved in the current order in which it is said to be installed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u178	Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u179	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Victor Petrovich, a dose of the active substance, is also included in the original edition. There's no new edition. But is it worth noting this dose or is it not? Because we realize that the dose depends very much, especially in modern hypotensive or cardiac, arrhythmic, and so forth. Dosage plays a very big role, and that's why maybe we should think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u180	This was also the subject of discussion. And here we're proposing that we give all the powers to the Ministry of Profiles, and let it clearly define the entire list. But you understand, and I understand very well, like all MPs, that, for example, on a vegetable, an elementary dose, it's impossible to put on ointments, drops that are used in occult practice and are literally released, as they say, an inch and a half of this package is impossible to put that amount of information there. So I think it's not a matter of national MPs, it's a department of profile, and we have to trust him, and it's going to define a professional list of drugs that will be used in some way or other in the interests of our patients' affairs accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u181	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u182	Dear Victor Petrovich, I have two questions, but they're so tight, they're so specific. First in the development of what colleague Bondik asked. But I'd like to find out, I think all the deputies are interested, and how much more expensive is it if Braille is written? It's basically supposed to be that kind of data. That's the first one. The other one. What enterprises, in general, are the ones that carry this Braille rod on all medications? This is a key question, I'd like you to answer it. And the third moment. What does marking involve at the very moment? So you're going to put all the drugs in, it's on two pages, and it's very large or some key positions? But the second question -- which enterprises are doing this -- is crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u183	Well, first of all, we need to get out of what branding is. And I think everyone agrees with me, and that's what the first law we passed is about that. But really, frankly, we've been getting a little hot and 100% branding everything in the world is not physically, probably, and not purposefully, because it's really going to lead to an adventure. So taking into account this, they say, component, we demand today that there be a certain percentage of the population in each party, as they say, of the range, in order to satisfy the needs, of the corresponding population category. And secondly, there is a requirement for pharmacies to provide this range. And so the domestic producers will put it on the packaging. And even if medicines are ordered abroad, whether they are produced jointly or imported, this will also be taken into account. That's the compact content on the package. If there is any other wish or time, I think the Ministry of Health will work it out with manufacturers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u184	Please report from the committee, Bachteyev Tetjana Dmitrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u185	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished people's deputies, we have adopted last year, which is now due to the law, the amendments proposed by the People's Deputy Guydaev and Korzh, the amendments to article 12 of the Ukrainian Drug Act, that every drug that we produce in Ukraine and which is imported must be marked in Braille. Of course, this is a very humane goal and, of course, the people's deputies supported such a bill, but this has not proved to be a condition of crisis. Because today we know that the preparations for 2008-2009 have not even grown at 2, not at 5, but sometimes even at 40 times. And of course, this marking will lead to a further increase in prices, and probably the drugs will be purely gold. So these changes that Victor Petrovich Korge is proposing are very correct, they will be limited, we know that we have 1 visual group in our country about 50,000 and half of them only use Braille. Therefore, allow the Ministry of Health to specify the list of medicines they use and should only be clearly marked. Because, according to the law adopted today, even ointments, even powders, even all that is produced in pharmacies, must be marked with Braille, this is the cost of equipment for these very purposes, and for packaging it costs between $300 and $400,000. That is why we understand that this will only lead to the expense of drugs. Let's see these changes that Victor Petrovich is proposing, to support them properly, that will be very correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u186	The question to the coconspirator. Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u187	Dear Tatiana Dmitrievna, well, we have only recently come into force since 1 January, as of 1 January, a law that we are now amending, right? Well, it's almost a new edition or a change. But he also passed through your committee, because we were all convinced that this bill was needed, and we all got through. In fact, how will all of this be distributed, where will it be marked, where no marking, who knows how many of these people are in the district center, at a certain population point, how will this be done? I'm just another question to you. Well, say, well, since January 1st, it's just started, there's some kind of analysis already, that's negative, what's the positive effect? Because, based on the analysis of the law, we have to make some changes. Or just because the pharmacists asked us or someone else will.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u188	Yes, I have also noted that this bill has been in operation since 1 January, and that we have entered a humane goal is clearly what we are leaving behind today. We leave the right to the disabled of 1 visual group and 50,000 of them in our country, to have the opportunity to buy Braille-labeled drugs in the pharmacy. But you don't need to label all the drugs. And it was a mistake and a committee. Because we supported the initiative of the two people's deputies who are working on our committee, Korj and Guydaev, and that this will lead to a journey of drugs. To date, you will not find in our country any drugs that have been produced since 1 January 2010 with markings, i.e. the law is not being implemented. It's just not possible for pharmacists to do it. We are therefore meeting these changes primarily for the first group of persons with disabilities, and plus clearly leaving the tight price policy of drugs without raising them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u189	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u190	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Aunt Dmitry, I'm sorry for being so obsessive. What businesses in Ukraine produce Braille Who puts Braille on these packages? Whether these are all pharmaceutical companies, or whether they are separate structures that provide such services, and thus obviously have a commercial advantage. What businesses in Ukraine are doing with Braille. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u191	We have five of our largest Ukrainian companies this year, not one of them is producing a new Braille product. It's just impossible. The cost of equipment is between $300 and $400,000. They can't acquire it for some reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u192	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u193	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Aunt Dmitrovna, I have two questions. The first question in the development of Zarubinsky’s colleague. If I understand your answer correctly, since we introduced this standard since January 01, no business of ours has dropped anything since January 01, because it can't be marked with this font. And the second question. If I'm not mistaken, was the author of this bill today, or was he one of the authors of that bill that we adopted on the clock here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u194	Yes, I have already said, and I repeat, that the two people's deputies were the authors of this bill: Korz Viktor Petrovich and Yuri Alexandrovich Haydayev. And today, Korz is making changes because it is the largest number, probably the producers, and, including us, meeting our committee on a number of occasions, we had an expanded meeting here in the towers last week, which was attended by representatives of the social organizations of UTOS society. And they also said that, thank you, it's a very noble opportunity for them, of course, but please, you can limit yourself to the drugs they use, not all drugs need to be marked.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u195	Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u196	Tatiana Dmitrievna, would you please tell me who will determine the list of drugs that require this code?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u197	The Ministry of Health of Ukraine is clearly second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-04-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, discussion and decision-making will take place at the evening plenary meeting. The morning plenary session is closed.
