ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Council" system. [[16:01:36]] They registered cards in the 420 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yegorenko Tamari Vasilovna, into the membership of the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Film Act is being announced. [[about the rights and conditions of distribution and display of the film]] The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Culture and Tourism of Ukraine Kohan Timofi Grigorovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of Yavorovský Volodymyr Aleksandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to Article 15 of the Ukraine Act on Cinematography was drafted by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine to implement the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine “On the Approval of the 2008 Plan of Action for Improving the Permit to Business” and to bring Ukraine into compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities”. The main purpose of the bill is to define and approve, at a permissive level, a decision on the issue or refusal of a document of a permissive nature, a comprehensive list of the grounds for the issuance and cancellation of a document of a permissive character on the right to conduct mediation activities in the field of cinematography. The bill was accepted without notice by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine, the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Enterprise, the National Council on Television and Broadcasting, the State Committee on Television and Broadcasting, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine made comments that were taken into account. The adoption of the Act on Amendments to Article 15 of the Act on Cinematography will improve legal relations in the field of cinematography and regulate legislatively the rules imposed by the Ukrainian Act on Allowance in Economic Activities. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. May I have the names of the naughty deputies on the board? Gregory Smythech, microphone, please. Gregory Smith's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear Timothy Grigorovich, there is no doubt that the bill or amendments to the bill you are proposing or the amendments to article 15 should be introduced. And I'm in favour of supporting this law today to look at it in the first and in general, because it's essentially not that general. At the same time, I have a question for you as a person responsible for a certain direction of development. Say, please, there's a lot of products that show up today both in cinemas and on television that are found on national television, and I'd say anti-state or anti-moral in nature that affect the social opinion or the upbringing of our young generation. Why don't you propose today to introduce a license to a demonstration of films that, in my opinion, have a very significant negative impact on our generation, and in turn they do harm morale, and they also give birth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u6	Thank you for asking. There is a problem, of course, and there is a problem. The point is that at the Ministry of Culture there is a so - called expert council, which includes over 17 experts who have the experience: both telemitters and filmmakers and filmmakers. And in principle, the Ministry of Culture doesn't give permission to clearly expressed films that have anti-government positions. The point is that the criteria for grading movies as a age limit are classified as the viewer's index. The maximum index is "X-21", which is published by the Ministry of Culture. These are films that can be shown in theaters or from 21 hours of age, and they are accessible to a person who is 21 years old.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u7	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski of the Committee You don't? Who's gonna be on the committee? There is a committee of decisions that proposes to take the basis of this bill. It's given to you. Please sign up for the discussion, dear colleagues. There's a record to discuss. And I'm asking the national deputies to sign up. Please put your name on the board. Mikhailo Kosov, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. Prepare Volodymyr Moses. Viacheslav Kirilenko will be. Microphone, do you want to get out of here? Turn on the microphone, please, Mikhail Vasilovich Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u8	Mikhailo Kossov, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party of Reforms and Orders. Dear colleagues, this law should have been passed for a long time, because I fully agree with my colleague Smitsch, that our screens, our air, are polluted by a variety of low-tech products that are very difficult and difficult to control. We at the Committee of the Supreme Council on Culture and Spirituality have carefully and thoroughly reviewed this bill. I want to tell you that similar laws are literally in all civilized, let's say, states of the world. And there's only one thing, I'd like to ask you, we have very often this argument as mistrust. You can't, let's say, build such an important state thing just because someone doesn't believe that the commission or the specialists who in the Ministry of Culture and Tourism are going to issue licences for the right to demonstrate such films that they're either not specialists or willfully do something wrong or abuse their rights. Let's not do that, because once again, I repeat, this law is long overdue, and we're already very, very late. And so, I'm asking you all, I think that something like a license to demonstrate a film, it's generally accepted, it's used in all the states of the world. And let's also support and vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u9	Vladimir Romanovich Moysik refers to Vijacheslav Kirilenko, a faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Prepare Gregory Smitsch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, honourable voters, we accept changes from time to time to the Film Act. Sadly, though, there is no Ukrainian film. For many reasons, but the main reason, of course, is the financing and lack of a successful national government management level, not at the level of the head of the sector, but at the level of even the government and the prime minister of the country and the President with any name. This last year, 2009, 5 million dollars for the entire Ukrainian cinematographer. What's five million dollars worth of money? That's right, absolutely nothing. And considering that 70 percent of this money is just funded, and basically that money only goes to the work of young cinematographers, not to the big movie theaters, it turns out that there are no prospects yet, unfortunately, Ukrainian movies. But this law is important because it solves another issue. We watch a lot of movies and TV shows that don't even know what's going on with Ukraine and the Ukrainians. We have only recently witnessed how we banned and did the Russian film "We From the Future-2" before we rolled, where our national heroes are shown to be a laughingstock, where they are bloodthirsty and short-lived, where they do only bad things, and the other side, which is like freedom, is beautiful and does only the right thing. I think it's wrong to show these movies every day and on every screen. And actually right now, a neighbouring country has taken on a fashion in every new movie to show an image of at least one of these, you know, short-term Ukrainians who only do the short-term misunderstandings against the background of the right actions of the main heroes who belong to the great fraternal neighboring nation. So I think that those films that sow national humiliation and deny the national independence of Ukraine, they shouldn't get a rental license. By the way, this bill provides that films aimed at eliminating Ukraine's independence, disrespect for national and religious shrines, humiliation of the nation, and a driving licence will not be given. And that is the right approach, which presupposes, above all, respect for ourselves. And last, third. We have an organ, the State Department of Cinematography, and there's a professional person, Hanna Pawnee Cheml. Today the government is meeting, perhaps the last session, to change this same Chmmel into an unknown, truth, close to the government faction, a colleague of Kočetkova, who was one of the initiators of not imposing mandatory duplication in Ukrainian cinemas or at least was close to such people. We urge the government, though not to resort to such decisions during the last days of their possible stay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u11	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. I personally wouldn't be against this bill, which is being tabled today, if this bill were to cover all the problems that relate to the distribution of film production on television and in cinemas. If you take this law, is it, of course, the law, or does it solve the changes that have been made to the existing legislation, these problems that we have today? In my opinion, it does not solve the complex problem. Today, our broadcast, especially television, is loaded with so little quality, so anti-Ukrainian, so much as anti-Ukrainian products, that there is no doubt that it is necessary in this area to take such drastic actions as to improve or significantly reduce the negative that does not spread to our children. All parents, not parents, are grandparents, all of whom have grandchildren or children. Look, please, what's on our screen? What's on the screen? It's just a horror one and it's impossible to combine with the morals of our Orthodox, it's impossible to combine with those tasks that relate to the upbringing of our generation. And then we can't even predict in the future what the consequences of this product are for our children in future generations. What are we raising in our children? Violence, illegal acts, rudeness, drunkenness, and so on and so forth. There's no product that's really kids. You see, psychologists, how do these cartoons, movies, affect the growing generation? It's just one horror! That's why I'm proposing the following. Considering that there will certainly be a point of view here regarding the support of this bill or not, I would have sent this bill for re-reading. And the ministry that's looking after, which is basically the responsibility of preparing those documents, to prepare a more fundamental, more radical project that will ensure everything that's right, what's going on with our particularly young generation. That's the first question. Regarding licensing: Russian or Ukrainian? You know, I personally went to this cartoon with my children called "Panda Kunfu". Remember, if any of you have not been there, there is a wonderful Ukrainian screening because the translation is directed by Bogdan Stupka. And I think it's the best piece that's been translated by someone not to be for the children's generation. And if I were to watch this cartoon and watch the Russian version, I'd be happy to say that this is the best. But there is a great deal of production that really reproduces some of the basics, including in Russian, and is not always appropriate in giving.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u14	So I ask you to support my proposal and return this bill to the first reading of the drafter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u15	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this problem, which has already matured, refers to the possibility that through the institution of issuing State certificates to respond to the values of things, to meaningful things. And I think that in order to move this thing from a dead point of view, we need to vote in the first reading, and even though I see the general mood of many factions, there are no. Instead, if we could do so in the first reading, I would not be in a hurry to vote in the second reading. Because a general list that allows the expert commission to refuse licenses may be an object, or a permit, may not be an object of ambiguous treatment, but perhaps some inadequate or corrupt action, because the more common formulas we write, the more possibilities, let's say, with a television company or with commercial structures that buy movies to discuss, issue them licenses or not. Well, for example, a license may be, or more specifically, a government license, may not be issued if a movie promotes tobacco and other harmful habits. Well, for example, the movies are going to be playing, there, stupid or something, and I think it's a bad habit. So, are you going to issue a certificate or not? How do you estimate the degree, you shouldn't smoke at all, or should you say it's bad? I mean, I think here in the formula there should be things that are publicized by the Constitution and the laws. That is, promoting violence, violence, religious tolerance, national interest. This kind of basic stuff, which is in our legislation, should be objects that speak, and allow us not to issue a certificate. And let's say these things, I'd say the second order that we have here, they could lead to ambiguous decisions and permanent court hearings. Because, you know, according to this amendment, it's going to be sued in court, and this state institution is going to be constantly with channels to judge and determine if there's champagne drinking -- it's a bad habit, or it's an attribute, there, a wedding, for example. So I think in the first reading, we need to accept and work on terms that are generally set in all countries of the world. They are clearly written, and all the countries of the world work very well and are warned. They're warning national interests, they're warning people's values, they're warning, so to speak, the general principles of social existence, what's called social morality. So I would have edited the amendment in this way, but of course it would have to be voted on in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. So pay attention, distinguished national MPs! I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Film Act. [[about the right and conditions for the distribution of the film]] [[Registration number 4490]] Please vote. [[16:21:58]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to re-read the draft law. [[Registration number 4490]] The thing is, there are no cards here. So we can't make it here. There's no card. [[16:22:25]] For-200 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. It's the factions. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 131, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 48, communists – 0, "Litvina Block" – 19, non-fractional – 1. Anatoly Matvienko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. In view of the fact that much of today’s time has gone on political bulges, and the daily routine has been filled with us, I would suggest and ask my colleagues to support the consideration of the following questions by means of a reduced procedure. And please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u19	If there are no obstacles, I am voting on Anatoly Matviyenka's proposal to review the draft Act on a reduced procedure. [[Registration numbers 4004, 4004-1]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to put everyone under a reduced procedure, as required by the Rules. That's why they're coming to us now. Just a minute. What kind of bill do we have now, I'm sorry? Take down the vote. Now we have to look at the draft Law 4778 on Vaccine Prevention of Infectious Diseases. I am voting on the proposal to consider this bill in short motion. Please vote. [[16:24:15]] For-173 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Korz Viktor Petrovich. Correspondent is head of the Bahtiev Tetjana Dmitrovna Health Committee. Please. Suškević microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u20	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! National Deputy Suškević, Timoshenko Yulia Block. The bill proposed to you was drafted by me along with my distinguished colleagues, Korzem Viktor Petrovich and Haydaj Yuri Alexanderovich. The main concept of the bill is to strengthen the monitoring of preventive vaccinations, the identification of the rights and obligations of citizens in carrying out these vaccinations, and the compensation for damage to the affected citizen as a result of postpartum complications. Sadly, respected colleagues, in recent years there has been an increase in the level of infectious disease associated with internal and external migration, environmental disasters, and the emergence of new nosological forms of disease. The situation of pandemics and epidemics is well - known. And today, the most common infections are diphtheria, viral hepatitis, measles, rubella, and others account for about 90 percent of all reported cases. Some of these diseases are caused by the majority of birth defects that affect the health of the population and put a heavy burden on the State budget. Also, disability problems are often associated with postpartum complications. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the protection of citizens’ health from infectious diseases in Ukraine is recognized as a duty of the State. The Ukrainian Act on Protection against Infectious Diseases sets out a list of infectious diseases against which preventive vaccination is carried out. On the basis of legislative requirements, children under the age of 17 should receive 23 vaccinations, with at least 14 mandatory vaccines in their first year of life. Yet, what is extremely relevant and limited in our society today is that the safety and effectiveness of vaccinations raises unwarranted doubts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u21	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u22	Doubts in the population, doubts in the parents. Therefore, in order to strengthen control of preventive vaccinations, the bill proposes: first, to allow vaccination only to accredited treatment and prevention establishments, regardless of the type and form of ownership; second, to recognize the responsibility of medical personnel, professional activities and the inaction of which, in the course of preventive vaccinations, have caused post-vaccinal complications; and third, to license medical practices with the right to carry out vaccine prevention. In addition, it is envisaged that the rights and obligations of citizens should be strengthened in the conduct of preventive vaccinations, the requirements for such vaccinations, and measures that threaten the emergence or onset of outbreaks and outbreaks of infectious diseases. And what I want to say is that this project is the only legislative project that contains social protection measures for post-op complications, depending on the complexity of which there are many social issues involved in supporting people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u23	Thank you. Please, Aunt Dmitrovna Bacheviva, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u24	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! On 11 November 2009, our committee supported this bill on vaccine prevention of infectious diseases. The real situation in our country on basic issues of immunoprophylactics shows that this area of health requires serious improvements, including in terms of legislation. Despite the fact that we have two basic laws today, however, at rather substantial and financial costs from public and local budgets for vaccine prevention, and as I have already said, the situation in this area has changed dramatically in recent years. We remember a tragic event that happened two years ago after the vaccination of the measles and the redhead of the child who died after the vaccine. Today, we are talking about a significant loss of public confidence in the only, perhaps the most reliable protection against infectious diseases, is vaccine prevention. The effectiveness of the existing State system of quality control, as well as the safety and effectiveness of vaccines, which, with the establishment of the State Inspectorate for the Quality Control of Medicines and its withdrawal from the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, is also being questioned, unfortunately, not in the best way. The current public procurement of vaccines has been disrupted annually, and today, on 2 March 2010, no region has received any vaccine, including one that is urgently needed, which is not available in all regions today, the BCG vaccine. There's been a lot of years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u25	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u26	Thank you. That's why. In general, such laws exist both in CIS countries and in Europe. The Federal Republic Act has been in operation since 98. The Russian Federation, this is a federal law on immunoprotection of infectious diseases. Although the Scientific and Expert Office has made a great deal of comments on eight pages, our committee supports it because we have long applied to the Ministry of Health to prepare such a bill. Unfortunately, we do not see this work. And today, a great thank you to the people's deputies of Suškević, Gaius, Korja. And our committee will work to make the second reading so full and very important and necessary for our country. Thank you. Support on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u27	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please register to discuss the bill: two 'yes', two 'against'. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Katerina Vaschuk, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, we are considering a really important bill. We know how many problems there are today with the health of people, especially young adults, and how much tension there is in society over the fact that many people, very many people, refuse to be vaccinated, do not allow their children to be vaccinated. And that's not an accident. The result was that there was no clearly worked - out system that would be responsible for the ministry and the entire structure of the health authorities in Ukraine, where the quality of the vaccine would be clearly guaranteed, where there would be clear instructions, as it once was. They, by the way, have to act today, from which diseases are compulsory vaccinations, which are optional. But most importantly, it's the work of all health authorities to get a vaccine that ensures reliability, that the health of our children and the people who are going to be vaccinated is not threatened. This is when the organs will be responsible, when all the tests are carried out in advance, the trials of such vaccines, and the guarantees. We will take down many problems in this area and there will be more guarantees that the health of children and people in Ukraine will be preserved. Therefore, the second reading must be focused on these points. And we, the Lithuanian Block faction, will prepare our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u29	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up will be Roman Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. I will personally vote against this bill and that is why. First of all, you know what problems we have in some of the other epidemics that are in Ukraine, or sometimes they occur during the fall-winter period. You remember a recent question that we have so far in the Supreme Council that there is no answer to the cost of overcoming the pandemic during the autumn of last year. So I'm paying attention to the fact that the vaccine that happens under the guise of the struggle, when this fight comes, is triggered by a vaccine from those or other manufacturers that are not adapted or certified or have not undergone clinical trials in our hospitals. And please tell us how you can take certain medications to implement them, which are clearly designed to overcome the disease, and in fact they may not adequately induce certain medical processes, health complications. So I would ask, given that this bill is going on in such a way that vaccination or vaccine can be carried without certification in Ukraine. That's why I'm counting on him not to be supported. That's the first question. And the second question. In connection with the latest developments in our country’s information space, so recently, yesterday and the day before yesterday, information was distributed in the media, in that regard, remember, the pandemic was carried along humanitarian and other corridors without control and, as it were, the customs of medicine, and to this day they are distributed throughout Ukraine, unknown to anyone, unknown where they are, as they have been used and so on. I believe that in this regard, especially in this example, there are very large abuses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u31	Finish up, please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u32	It's on the part of the officials. This is especially important for the committee to consider and carry out the necessary examination with the participation of its members.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u33	Thank you. Roman Tjak, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u34	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, the honourable colleagues, first of all, welcomed the fact that, at last, the truth is not because of the government, but because of our fellow MPs, such an important bill is being tabled in the session room. But I'd like to talk to you about something else. Dear colleagues, this bill cannot, in principle, be supported and I firmly oppose such motives. The bill on vaccine prevention of infectious diseases under registration number 4748 is like the 8th article, which describes what. “The absence of preventive vaccinations from infectious diseases in a child in which there are no consistent medical objections to them is causing.” - Listen to the words, “reception to educational, health, sanatorium, social services, specialized educational institutions of the sport profile” and so on. What does that mean? In Ukrainian conditions, this means that if parents or those who care for a child, for some reason, say so, have not instilled a child, this child becomes no one in this society. I note that the prohibition of attending child schools to children who have not received preventive vaccination is contrary to all international treaties, conventions, covenants, protocols, charters relating to the protection of the rights of children. This ban is contrary to the basic law of our country, the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Education Act, preschool education, general secondary education, the protection of childhood. By the way, this fact is also highlighted by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. One more. We understand that in Ukrainian conditions, this is the ideal ground for corruption, because in order for a child to be able to get an education, parents need all the help they can get. That's it. And whether the child is vaccinated or not, she'll go to school, she'll go to a preschool. Besides, I'd like to remind you that I have drafted a bill number 256. By the way, he's here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u35	Finish up, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u36	And I propose that this bill be rejected, redrafted today, and then, in principle, it can be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u37	Thank you. The discussion is over. Alexander Billowol, First Deputy Minister of Health Please, what position is Kabmin in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Distinguished People's Deputies! The Ministry of Health, together, passed an alternative bill, which is necessary today. But we have made some serious comments that need to be changed in three articles. The first article is the 4th where the paragraph is divided into two points. First of all, it is essential not to take into account the free conduct of mandatory preventive vaccinations at an age, preventive vaccinations at a health level, and epidemiological indicators. The second is to change article 6 as amended: a calendar of preventive vaccinations by law should develop, approve and update a specially authorized central authority on maternal and child health issues, depending on the epidemic situation that is currently in the country. It is also compulsory to include all those international organizations that are active in the field of health care. And article 8 is important: in paragraph 3, the word “temporary” should be deleted. So I think this bill needs to be finalized, and the Ministry of Health will then support the will of the national MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act on Vaccine Prevention of Infectious Diseases. [[Registration number 4778]] Please vote. [[16:40:30]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for re-reading the bill, registration number 4778. [[16:40:57]] For 116 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, to your well-known bill of registration number 4778, introduced by the National Deputies Suškević, Korz, and Haydaev. So I'm asking you, dear colleagues, when we sign, maybe we can get the support of the faction, or if you sign, see what you're signing, we don't have to do fruitless work. Now, honourable colleagues, I am voting on a motion to review the reduced procedure of Bill 3574. This is a draft of the Act on Supplementing Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Distribution of Audiovisual Copies, phonograms, videos, computer programs, databases for consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:42:02]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. We're looking at the full procedure. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Strych Maksim Vitaliyovich, co-rapporteur, Deputy Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Davymuk Stepan Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u40	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine. One of the priorities for the protection of intellectual property rights is the fight against piracy. The implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the distribution of audiovisual works, phonograms, videograms, computer programs, databases shows that right-holders are not always able to influence their rights in a timely manner. In order to improve legislation, to improve the situation that exists in the distribution of copyright and adjacent rights, at the suggestion of the European Business Association, the Ministry of Education and Science is introducing to you a draft law supplementing article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the distribution of audiovisual works, phonograms, videos, computer programs, databases. The proposed changes provide open access for right-holders to the process of issuing tags and controlling the audiovisual market, phonographs, videograms, and so on. By placing on the official website the institution of naming copies, as well as the names of the works contained in these copies for which applications are submitted for the receipt of the stamps. Obtaining copyright and adjacent rights from the naming institution, the applicant's address and the number of stamps issued to them, storing documents submitted for receipt of the stamps for three years. The Ministry believes that the adoption of the bill will provide a transparent mechanism for monitoring the rights and interests of copyright owners and adjacent rights, and for not allowing for the commercialization of counterfeit products. In view of the fact that the law is one of the priority areas and demonstrates Ukraine's targeted actions to protect the rights of creative personalities at the level of the world's leading countries, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Gregory Smythech, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u42	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Maksim Vitaliyovich, of course what you're saying, it reinforces the responsibility, so to speak, or strengthens control to protect the rights of the owners of the product they are the authors. At the same time, I have a question of this nature. Could you inform us about this, or how these rights protect our authors, if they are, for example, in Russia or Belarus, distributed, or in another country like your Ministry, and how you personally, are there examples when you investigate that there is an illegal use of these materials or these copyrights, and is there an example that you have at least one author for his rights and these rights have been renewed? Give an example, if any. Because we often protect the rights of foreign companies, including audio, videos and so on, and not always care about our own, our citizens and our authors. Please give an example.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u43	Thank you very much. Copyright by nature is a private right. He is protected by his rightful owner. The aim of the State is to create conditions under which the right holder could effectively defend his right. Ukraine's participation in the World Intellectual Property Organization in a series of international conventions and treaties ratified in this Hall contributes to the protection of Ukrainian authors' offices abroad and examples of our authors in various fields successfully defending their rights today, believe me, there are quite a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u44	Katerina Vaschuk, Lithuanian Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u45	Dear reporter, this bill defines rights, protects the rights of authors. Tell me if it was worth the second reading of the bill to complete the following. That this is a product that goes without authorship and is often one that should not be seen on television or distributed because it is manifestly rude and vice versa. Sometimes it is embarrassing to sit next to TV with your children and even more grandchildren. And I think it's often because there are no authors. They distribute everything underground and porn and other products. It was worth adding that such produce was not allowed to be released in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u46	Thank you. Very legal products in Ukraine are distributed with trademarks. Then this law is designed to control the correctness of this procedure. Obviously, the product that it's about is actually going without any kind of stamps and the task of law enforcement is to remove this product. During the past week, for example, more than a thousand names of such counterfeit products have been removed in the markets in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u47	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u48	Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, the bill is extremely small, but I see that we have a lot of things going on today. For example, what is in the famous entrepreneurship, perhaps the pipe to be in Minculture, is located; perhaps these copies should be passed to the library of Vernadians to keep them. And I'd like to ask you. This bill and the bill, which is in the Supreme Council of Sharov, Tobacco, on recognition of such that it has ceased to be valid The Act on the Distribution of Audiovisual Works, Phonograms, Videograms, Computer Programs, Databases, How do you see, analyze? [[This is 4296 from April 1st.]] I'd like to hear the answers from you to these two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u49	Thank you. The bill, which has been in force in Ukraine since 2000, provides for a mechanism of stamp controls, i.e. the legal distribution of the copies on which the stamps are placed. This bill has allowed Ukraine to significantly reduce piracy in the last 10 years. A witness to this, in particular, to the exclusion of our nation from the so - called 301 list. The Ministry then believes that it is necessary to improve the mechanism of stamps, and the bill is directed at, it makes the mechanism more open. The abolition of the branding mechanism may result in unforeseen consequences and a surge of piracy, loss of profits we have had in the past 10 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u50	Have a seat, please. Davemuka Stepan Antonovich. Please make the decision of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u51	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the committee considers the draft law supplementing article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the distribution of audiovisual works, phonographs, videograms, computer programs, databases important and relevant. The current order of issuance of control stamps is imperfect and opaque, allowing for some legalization of piracy. Interested creators are unable to obtain information about the issue of stamps to entrepreneurs publishing, distributing, and selling their works and performance. No agreement is required with the authors of these works and with the producers of phonograms and videos. This enables the making of stamps to be made available to improper persons. As a result, the legal reward is not paid to the creators. This was discussed, in particular sharply, by members of the committee hearings “Efficiencies in the application of Ukrainian legislation in the field of copyright and neighbouring rights”. According to a World Economic Forum rating, Ukraine took 114th place among 134 countries in 2009 in the area of intellectual property rights, demonstrating the inefficient use of its own innovation potential, the transformation of Ukraine into a state that exports raw resources with a small amount of added value. Ukraine remains among countries with the highest level of computer piracy in the world alongside countries such as Zimbabwe, Venezuela, Iran, and so forth. The use of unlicensed software in Ukraine in 2008 was 84 percent, one of the highest in Europe, and the loss of a national economy from computer piracy amounted to more than $534 million a year. An effective element of the fight against infringement of the legitimate rights and interests of persons who are entitled to copyright and adjacent rights is the creation, through the official website of the central executive body, of intellectual property of such persons, of information submitted by the applicant to obtain the trademarks and to enable the right-holders to receive the relevant information. The adoption of this bill will allow obstacles to pirate activity, allowing the right-holders to defend their interests themselves in the process of issuing tags for audiovisual works, phonographs, videograms, computer programs, databases. It is also appropriate to propose that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office should specify that the right to receive information for appointment, the applicant's address and the number of stamps issued to him may be granted not only to the person who owns the property of the relevant intellectual property rights, but also to the creators of these objects and their heirs during the established period of validity of the relevant property rights, as well as to other persons who manage the property rights of copyright and adjacent rights subjects. The committee discussed the draft Ukrainian law “To complement article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the distribution of audiovisual works, phonograms, videograms, computer programs, databases” and suggested that it be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, if the question is with the co-rapporteur, please sign in. Names of the National Deputies, please take them to the board. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u53	Yuri Carmazin. That's my question. In fact, we have these stamps used to provide copyright, right? Yes. The Ministry of Education is responsible for this. But then, a few years later, these disks are being destroyed. Why destroy them if they can be transferred to the Minculture subset and then converted to libraries? And so we're going to get without spending, we're going to keep it in libraries, people have access, they're going to have and we're going to save the budget. I mean, me. My opinion is about the complexity of solving this problem, not the narrowness of what it says. Sorry, it says here, the documents filed for the stamps are stored for 3 years. These little things, I think, are a little bit wider to see as an organ of the state when they're handed over by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u54	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u55	Don't hear, don't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u56	In general, I agree with you that we need to address this issue more widely. But throughout the world, with regard to this particular circle of questions, it has been adopted just as it is suggested. So what you're saying is it's outside this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u57	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to join us in discussing the bill. People's deputies' names on the board, please. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The project proposes to provide information on the naming of audiovisual copies, a phonograph. Videograms, computer programs, installed model databases, and their names, which are applied for on the official website of the central executive authority in the area of intellectual property. Also, grant the right to the person who owns these intellectual property rights to receive information about the name, address, and number of trademarks issued to him. We believe that this initiative will only be an information base that will in no way improve the mechanism to combat violations of the legitimate rights and interests of persons who are entitled to copyright or adjacent rights. On the other hand, this executive authority will get the right to pay, I emphasize, on a paid basis, to give access to the base, and also in the case of the application for stamps, and the money for getting an extract from the base. On this basis, the faction of the Party of Regions proposes to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u59	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. You know, the very position of the subject of the legislative initiative is aimed at making people of intellectual work more secure is right. For some reason we always think that there is theft, there is theft only of material values. And if you produce a product, if you apologize for the tautology of the product with your brain, your head, your experience, your mind, you can destroy it, you can use it without giving normal material rewards to those people, and so on. I realize that this is a principle position that we've had for many decades when intellectual work has not been appreciated, is not appreciated today, and I see that they don't want to appreciate it anymore. What does this technical bill give at first sight? It's very simple, I've caught this, so let's see if it's confirmed or corrected by Maxim Strych, or whoever's the author of the intellectual product will know clearly who's ordering it and who's in charge of how many copies. You should have said, that's the whole point of this bill. Because today these stamps are issued if more than real is sold for what the author of intellectual property or the owner of an intellectual product gets rewards for it. That's the whole point of this bill. Whether it's complex, whether it's systemic, you can obviously discuss it, but what I'm now going to say is, by making an intellectual product, I'm going to know exactly how much they can use, sell, and the corresponding material reward I'm going to make is a plus, definitely a plus. I don't know what it's like in general, but in the first reading, it's obvious that this idea could be supported. And then the legislators themselves could make some adjustments to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u61	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, I would like to continue with the opinion of the predecessor of Oleg Zarubinsky and to say about what is being done in part of the minimum protection of copyright, we must support it. Because, in fact, we are now staying in European space, perhaps a less protected country in part of copyright. Now, I've had to deal with the situation myself a few times when my intellectual property for certain projects was used on certain brands and you don't have any mechanisms to regulate. Because the person who, for example, runs and uses this brand with a book, she says, you know, we didn't know that you're the author of this brand, you're the author of this intellectual property, it's not reported anywhere, so we used budget money and we used your copyright. I only agree with Michael Chechtev in the sense that there must be a more systematic approach, because it's not just this category of copyright protection in the product. Of course, it was necessary to systematically expand and talk about the fact that the bill in general was as if it were out of date, and probably a new draft of the bill was needed. But nevertheless, as a step in protecting copyright, I think the sign of the Ukrainian Parliament that copyright should be protected will be protected. As for the warnings about pay, not pay, to me, surprise, our colleagues from the Party of Regions raised this question if we already have this issue for the official website of the public authority to provide information and to take services, so you're taking money, I think it's a criminal responsibility. For this, it should come up to government officials if they think about it. I don't think it's necessary to write in laws that there, for example, on the Supreme Council website, on the Cabinet of Ministers, there's free information on the website of the Ministry of Education. This seems obvious to me, so the threat that the institution is going to make money on this thing seems futile to me. But nevertheless, I think that this first step is not enough, and maybe really between first and second reading, you have to think about expanding the scope of copyright information. And by the way, our scientific expertise has also drawn attention to this, be it part of the contention of this text, that, as a minimum, it has to be argued that not only owners of property rights, but also creators of these objects, the heirs of the set term should also receive information in accordance with the order proposed by law. So the total. I think the first step is useful and right. I would vote in favour of supporting the first reading and then maximizing the openness and protection of copyright in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please, the final word of the reporter. Do you need me?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u64	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Distinguished People's Deputies! If this bill is adopted in the first reading, an important step will be taken, an inexhaustible but important step towards improving the order of things in order to make it more transparent. Besides the pluses, there's nothing here. I ask you very much to support this because it is not only in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are about to move on to making a decision. I ask the National Deputies to stop the group meetings for reasons of interest and prepare for the vote. Please submit to the vote a proposal to the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act supplementing article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the distribution of copies of audiovisual works, phonograms, videograms, computer programs, databases. [[Registration number 3574]] Please vote. [[17:05:09]] For-195 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 3574]] [[17:05:35]] For-198 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The draft Law on the Moratorium on the alienation of premises and property of media editors, founded by working groups, publishing houses, bookstores, creative associations, public organizations, and charities, is being discussed. Registration numbers 4004, 4004-1. At the same time, Ukrainian national deputy Ukolov Viktor Alexanderovich made a motion for the transfer of the draft law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4004]] I'm informing my colleague that since there's an alternative bill, we can't move at that time, because the author of the second bill doesn't copy his bill, so we need to consider this issue and I'm asking everyone to agree. So please, your honorary colleagues, the rapporteur for this matter, the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information of the Uklův Viktor Alexanderovich and the National Deputy of Ukraine, Schmelov Svetlana Alexandrovna. There's no Ukolova? Then I invite you to speak to Smélová Svetlana Alexandrovna. So let's think about it, if we have to vote on the transfer. The Supreme Council doesn't vote. I already know the mood. Okay, I'll put it to a vote. Who's to say, your honor, to transfer the bill's review, registration number 4004. 4004-1. Please determine by vote. [[17:07:33]] For-146 The decision is not taken. Please report to Svetlana Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u66	Schmelova, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, as you know, are now constantly evicting media outlets, printers, publishing houses, bookstores, other bookstores, and creative associations from state utility premises, where they work for a long time, even in Soviet times. In Ukraine, many attempts have been made to promote public authorities and local self - government by raiding media outlets, corporateizing them, and thus reclassifying them. Despite the pressure of the raids, the authorities have in no way contributed to the solution. On the other hand, local self-government has decided to set a higher rent for these enterprises than for budgetary institutions, which is contrary to the requirements of articles 6 and 8 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Media and Social Protection of Journalists. In view of this terrible situation in which the media have come into contact, I have drafted a bill to strengthen the protection of property by media editing, publishing, bookstores, bookstores, publishing companies, and creative communities. This bill is designed to prevent abuse and to prevent violations of immovable property, evict media editors, printers, publishers, bookstores, creative associations from the premises they use to carry out their activities. The purpose of the bill is to support and develop the country’s book - making work. We know that my institutions use buildings that were built on account of their counting and transferred to them by party or Soviet authorities before the year 91. This property, including immovable property, has been transferred to public or municipal property under the Ukrainian Act on the Conversion of Property of the Company of Ukraine and the CPRS into State Property. With this project, I invite the tenants to make an indefinite lease on the premises where these offices, printing houses, publishing houses, bookstores and bookkeeping companies are located, and on tariffs set for budgetary organizations. In addition, it is suggested that local government authorities recommend transfer to ownership or the permanent use of creative associations of immovable property, which is in communal property, where many have been transferred to creative communities for a balance or on the basis of a lease contract, as well as the land on which it is located. Please support my bill and take it as a basis. I want some help. I've talked about this before. I've got time. 29 publishing facilities in Ukraine have already been reclassified. I'm asking you very much to hear. No more publishing. 29. It's no longer a publishing business. These were all publishing facilities, and strategic objects were on the list. They're gone now. In Kiev there is one edition of “Kyivska Truth” which is now DAK. A bloodthirsty polygraph where three editors fight for their property that was transferred to their balance sheet. It's a very important editorial, it's a press. You can hear me if every God knows what it is not about the state. We're protecting state property. Listen up, people! So I want to tell you. That Ukolovy and I are almost alone. If the Vaklov obeys, I'll add something of my own. The only thing is, he's only got municipal property and state property. And I'm not suggesting any. I see. I very much ask you to think about it. Nobody wants to take anything. On the contrary, we want to preserve state property by this bill. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the interview. Names of the national MPs, please. Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u68	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear Svetlana Alexandrovna, you have raised a very important question. Indeed, it is scary to hear that 29 publications in Ukraine have ceased to exist. Support is indeed needed for those groups that continue to work. Please tell me this bill, if it is adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it will indeed be a mechanism to protect our publishing work, the working groups and we will have our own printing, we will have our newspapers, we will have our polygraph products. Is it an effective law, or is it still subject to second reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u69	Anyway, I'm convinced that if there's a law, the law protects. That's the first thing. Second, these are really strategic objects and there's really a lot of them. What's the big deal? The editing can be found, the room can be taken down somewhere. But where can newspapers be printed? In this publication, “Kyivska prava”, which I call, 80 percent of the newspaper’s printing machinery has been destroyed. Whatever it is, it's renting. And all they're waiting for is to throw out these three newspapers, and then it's going to be. There's a lot of land, there's a lot of garages, there's a lot of space. And if the law is passed, not only will we help the “Kyivska truth”, we will help those 29 publications that have already been reprofiled, but we will help people to take away what they owned to make it a printer. The law is essential. If he thinks about it, it's just going to be a big gratitude to all the creative communities that have already been expelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u70	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u71	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear Svetlana Alexandrovna, first of all, I would like to thank you for this very right and timely initiative. You've made an emphasis in your bill, and you're presenting a bill, that they're losing out on the media, publishing houses that are based on different forms of property, particularly public organizations, particularly creative organizations and so on. You have raised a very pressing problem, for it is not only the media but also the public organizations. As head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council, I can testify that not just individual veteran organizations, dozens of veteran organizations, not even the primary level, are evicted by local authorities from occupied premises. So I just wanted to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u72	Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u73	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u74	Svetlana Alexandrovna, in this session hall, has repeatedly listened to drafts called “on a moratorium on alienation”, for example, the bill was: “The Moratorium on the alienation of the property of professional communities” – to avoid the priceless destruction of those professional health workers on whom the forest has eyes. So I have a question to ask you first: Does your moratorium on the alienation of property belonging to working groups provide for a term of one, two, five, ten? If forever, then it's not a moratorium, it's just a ban. And the second question. And if the labor force of a particular editorial takes credit, for example, what can it do to make a mortgage: the premises, you said yourself, there's land, there's garages? What, then, should the bank be asked to do? The bank won't give credit if there's actually all this property that it wants to take on a labor group loan, all this property will actually be under arrest, under a moratorium. You see, your bill and your idea have a number of suggestions, positions that need further development. Two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u75	I agree with you. But these three editors in Kiev, they're not out yet, they can still take credit. But I want to tell you that we can't prove it. When the Soviet Union collapsed, newspapers survived who could. The newspapers formed their own who could form the form of ownership — whether a limited company or a labor group. And that's what the raiders get. They are. [[I'm sorry, but I don't know how to talk loudly.]] I agree with you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. If you make an offer that's right, I'll be happy to take it into account. So I'm asking everyone who thinks there's something to add to this bill for the benefit of the state, for the benefit of the collectives, I'm going to thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u76	Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoly, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u77	Yuri Carmazin. I've studied your bill carefully. The key is what the first word “no” is in the article, the key is that the second article states that the retraining of these objects is prohibited, and the key is that the tariffs on which they are transmitted should be such as for budgetary organisations. I'd like to understand for myself, and how you can actually do that. I support, in principle, that it needs to be stopped, everything that's going on. But this property, and it can be forced, it can be eliminated by a creative society, it can be eliminated by an organization. Do we forever forbid him to change, or how do you propose? From the text of the law, I see that forever, that forever. So we're part of the owner's rights we're taking away by law. As far as it fits and co-sounds with other laws that are the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u78	Thank you. We've talked about owners today. Looking at which owner, why did he take it — to publish and improve his work or to make a hotel there? What kind of owner? The publication “Kyivska prava” does not yet have a owner. So we need to approach from a governmental point of view, and everything will be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u79	Thank you, sit down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a discussion. Sergey Tulub, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's refusing? He's refusing to speak. Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u80	Peter Cibenko, Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans organization. Dear colleagues, to continue what I have said in my question, by addressing Svetlana Alexandrina and thanking her for this legislative initiative, I would like to extend some of the discussion and join the discussion and the subject more. to be discussed on a broader scale. I would like to stress once again that this problem, which is now being raised in a very narrow format and it concerns the media, the premises, the rental conditions on which they have these premises, these questions are also relevant for public organizations, for political parties and so on, and so on. Once again, as the head of the Ukrainian Veterans, as the leader of a public organization that is composed of more than 10 million Ukrainian citizens, I would like to stress that the problem is indeed extremely relevant and needs to be addressed, including in relation to public organisations. Because, indeed, very often local authorities, I don't know how relevant this is to all areas, to cities, to areas, and, let's say, to the city of Kiev, it's extremely relevant. The same veterans’ organization is a city that has 550 thousand people, today on certain, as it were, bird rights are occupied by the premises where they are located. Without a contract, she may receive as a gift tomorrow or the day after that of a new host to the premises she occupies. Or another eloquent example. A month ago, I was approached by the head of the disabled women's organization Donna, who had previously occupied a building on the street of Volodymyrska, 29, office 1, when the premises occupied by the public organization, I stress, the disabled women of Donna, were put on auction and sold, despite the fact that there is a contract, and it did not fail, is a specific organization that occupies this facility. Nevertheless, the premises were sold. Moreover, the public organization that occupied the premises learned of the fact that they were selling only when, as it were, new owners came to move out of the premises they occupied. So this is an extremely gross violation of both the constitutional rights of citizens and the rights of public organizations, the media, and really these issues need to be addressed because this really requires a legislative settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u81	Irina Heratschenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's a shame that there is no drafter of Mr. Ukolov's bill, but we're really looking at a very important issue right now with regard to the protection of the premises. And what I'm saying is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already repeatedly protected single facilities in various cities in Ukraine. We remember Poltava, a library in Poltava, we remember the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, which he gave to the representatives of the various factions, about the situation that took place around the bookstore "Snow". And a few days ago, our colleagues, Kulikov and Yavorowski's deputies simply threw out of that room the misunderstood raiders, violating both Ukraine's legislation and the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the decrees of the President of Ukraine, thus captivating the premises. And thanks to the work of the people’s deputies, Shevchenkovsky, after that Paradise, stopped the decision to privatize the premises illegally. So it's very important for the Supreme Council today to take a comprehensive approach to the protection of municipal and state property, so that these lasagna pieces, where libraries, bookstores, media outlets are usually found, so that we can set up shelters from these businesses forever, from politics to capture them for no price, and provide shops, shops, casinos and everything. So it is important that, despite the absence of drafters today, we vote in favour of this law and that the Supreme Council no longer violates such questions as the single protection of certain premises, but that we protect cultural institutions in a comprehensive way, I think that would be very right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u83	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u84	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear national MPs, certainly very good ideas are at the heart of this law, I would vote for both laws. We've already voted a few of them here to let you know similar legislation. I'm only against one thing, I'm against us not getting to the bottom of the problem. And so far, they are about the same bills, one says that a moratorium is being established forever, and the other, which has just been reported, says in article 1, that the key word “removal of premises” in which the texts are located is prohibited. The second article prohibits the retraining of these objects, and further recommends that the Maintenance Fund and everyone else be given the tariffs set for budgetary organizations. And the 4th article recommends that local government authorities make a transfer to ownership or to the permanent use of creative communities that are in communal property, as well as land, among other things, also transfer. That's it. Then I ask myself, is this ban on estrangement, without setting a deadline, not a restriction on the constitutional rights of those who now own it, I mean these same creative communities. Obviously, article 41 of the Constitution makes it clear that this does not fully correspond to it, does not exactly correspond to article 319 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, because according to it, the owner manages his own property to his own judgment. Obviously there are problems in the second bill, the Bills of the People's MP Ukolova, where there is a total ban on alienating the property of the specified legal persons without the time limit for the prohibition. That is, there is also a ban on the distribution of property to owners. I've been thinking for a long time, after studying the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Departments, by the way, the Scientific and Experimental Authority recommends that both bills be rejected. It believes that they are both violating the Constitution of Ukraine. I've been thinking for a long time, what can I do? If we were to approach them properly, perhaps there is something in Bill 4004 that could be published, but it is essential to complement it constitutionally. But that's just the result of the whole thing. I'm afraid they'll accept it, and then they could push it back into the second reading, as we might have. So I've shared with you the thoughts on these two projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u85	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues. In the end, we're going to finish the question and we're going to have a replica. We have completed our consideration of the matter. I'm bringing you back to the committee's decision. He's proposing Bill 4004 to adopt as a basis, Bill 4004-1 to reject. In accordance with the registration procedure, I will put to the vote the first proposal to adopt the draft Law on Moratoriums for the alienation of premises and property of media editors, which are the founders of labour groups, publishing houses, bookstores, creative communities, public organizations and charities. Please vote. [[17:29:39]] For-191 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft law on strengthening the protection of property by media editors, publishing, bookstores, bookstores, distribution firms, creative associations. Please vote. [[17:30:15.]] For 363 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are under review. I'm sorry, Kirilo Kulikov has the right to a replica, mentioned his last name as one of the speakers, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, it's really a state decision and it's really a decision that they're now trying to bribe, to say that today this business is setting things right. Never does business regulate what people have the right to read! There were nine bookstores in Kiev. Today is 2. Today, what is being done in Kiev is impossible to survive! Because what you have accepted, supported the book today, supported the readers of the Ukrainians, that is very good, it means that today the unknown will not rule our country! And I also want to say that today is going to be an attack against everything: against the Houses of the Heros of Ukraine, against the Houses of the Heroes of the Soviet Union. This "young team of the name of Chernewsky" is trying to take everything, it's worse than German-Fashite invaders, they do anything! And this is really the "occupiers" and this authority needs to be placed not only a dot, but a big sign of the "cross," I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine is being announced. [[on the integration of political parties]] Registration numbers 2002, 2002-1. Reporters: National Deputy of Ukraine Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich and National Deputy of Ukraine Zvaric Roman Mihajlovich. Correspondent member of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich. Please, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u88	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill amending the Political Party Act. The point is that article 10 of the Political Parties Act does not have legal standards that have established a system for the consolidation of several political parties, by merging them or by joining another political party. According to the Ministry of Justice, 173 political parties are registered in Ukraine today. At the time of the registration of my bill, which is more than two years old, there were 143. So we are witnessing a proliferation of political parties, which most, the vast majority of which do not play any visible role in the political life of our country, do not influence political processes, and exist on paper. Let me remind you that the 3% barrier has only been overcome by three blocks and two political parties present in the Supreme Council. In this regard, the bill, which I propose to supplement article 10 of the Political Parties Act, rules governing the process of uniting political parties, by merging or joining the political party in order to reorganize. It is worth noting that the difference between my bill and the alternative bill that I am also coauthoring is the distinction that determines that my bill, unlike the bill, is a form of unification by joining the political party. [[2002-1]] [[2002-1]] I am convinced that the adoption of one of the aforementioned bills will contribute to the consolidation of political parties, their unification and the restructuring of the party system in Ukraine. In view of the above, I do not insist on voting on my bill, and I ask you to support an alternative bill that I am also co-authored on the first reading. [[2002]] [[2002-1]] And at the same time, I propose to include the elements that are in my bill when drafting the bill in conjunction with the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u89	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, since Boris Ivanovich suggested not to consider his bill in essence. The bill of the National MP Zvaric, there's obviously no need to ask questions. Yes. Have a seat, please. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric. Boiler, please, about the 2020-1 bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u90	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm not going to repeat Boris Ivanovich's arguments, of course they're all correct, but I would like to focus on a problem that is essentially legal. In order to unite two or more political parties in Ukraine, it is not possible to determine immediately who is passing over the property of these two political parties. In the event that it stops its activities, it stops, more faithfully, one political party, which thus goes to another political party with full membership, does not know what happens to the property of that political party that is being eliminated. What is more, the possibility remains open to use the name of the decommissioned political party to register it in the same name, with the same name. That's why a bill that's not just introduced by me, but by the nine heads of political parties that are members of the "Our People's Self-Defense" bloc, its essence is to use, practically, the mechanism that's foreseen in civil and legal relations, which is called merger reorganization. Thus there will be no questions about the property of these two subjects before then, by the way, they have been and remain subjects of civil law relations, and they will now act as one subject. In order to actually solve this problem, we have a bill that we have tabled, I ask your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u91	Please, Your Honor, ask the reporter. Please sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u92	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear reporter, please tell me that you have consistently focused your attention on the issue of ownership during the merger, when these parties are united. But is this really the main question? And the question of registering one of them and so forth, participating in the electoral process? Is that not the main thing in this case?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u93	I focused on the main obstacle that makes it impossible to structure political life or, more faithfully, the life of political parties. Today we have over 170 such subjects of the Law on Political Parties in Ukraine. Agree that this is not a normal situation, especially considering that only three political parties have overcome the three - percent barrier, including the Ukrainian Company, and two political parties have overcome such a barrier. The main obstacle is property relations. And with regard to that particular question that you have asked about the new registration, the participation in the elections, this law answers that question. So it's not going to be a new subject, it's going to be an old subject, it's going to be an old subject, and so the obstacle a year before the election doesn't apply to this new subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u94	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u95	Dear Roman Mikhailovich, a newly created entity, is a new political party. The new political party or the old political party under article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine is a political union of citizens, not a political union of different parties. I don't understand your logic about property: are the parties forming around the narrow corporate interests or around ideological principles? Roman Mikhailovich, remember that when signatures are collected for the registration of a political party or another, they are collected all over Ukraine. [[Do not wave your head]] Your Lordship, knock on your head with your teeth, not in the rostrum. I'm asking you a legal question. Article 36 of the Constitution clearly defines what a political party is. Please leave the party, join the other party. Let the party dissolve, and let the members join the other party. What is the “unification of political parties” under article 36 of the Constitution? And behave modestly, Professor!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u96	Mr. Jaroslav, I think I made myself quite clear. Every party has property. To walk a few steps from my office on Lipsky Street, you have a huge house, so it's not party property? Then tell me about it. If. Each party owns its own property. This may even be the account of the political party that is due, among other things, according to the same Political Parties Act corresponds to an audit. And you should be conducting audits for which the Ministry of Justice is responsible. You voted for this law! That's why we're not going anywhere. Property relationships are, too. spread, more loyally, also to political parties. Clearly, according to the Constitution, every political party is a citizens' union. But it doesn't mean that it's a union of citizens, like, by the way, any social organization shouldn't have its own property. Today, there are two or more citizens who are united.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u97	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u98	which are political parties, cannot unite, there is no mechanism. It offers a very simple legal mechanism to fill the legal gap. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u99	Pavlovski National Deputy, Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u100	Andrey Pavlowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". Mr. Romane, is there a time, a time, a time to go through some reorganization procedures when a party is formed by merger, or is it time for the members of this unifying party to determine whether or not to be in a united party and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u101	I repeat, Mr. Andrey: The mechanism that is proposed here is, in fact, borrowed from the Civil Code, where it is proposed to use the same mechanism that extends to the property relations of individual owners, to political parties dealing with property problems. Thus, the time frame can only be as broad or as narrow as the subjects move quickly to organize their documents. It's up to them. And they're supposed to be interested in that first.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u102	Andrew Schlell, Timoshenko Yuli Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u103	Thank you. Dear reporter, there was, I think, a good enough question. When we talk about the unification of two long - term subjects of political activity, two political parties established there many years ago are united. So do they still lose the opportunity to be the object of the electoral process or not? Actually, that's what I'd like to hear. Next. When we talk about the unification of political forces. Is this supposed to be, for example, a merger of 9 parties, or is there a restriction and how it is regulated? And the third question. I understand perfectly that on the background of 167 or 176 political parties in Ukraine, this law is necessary and sufficient, as it is for me, in time. But once again, the question will be called for. What happens to members of the parties who are delegated to various authorities: local authorities, the Supreme Council, and so forth. [[is meant by party lists]] So what is their fate in this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u104	Dear Mr. Andrey, in accordance with this bill, first of all, those political parties that merge through reorganisation do not lose their right to participate in the electoral process and do not extend this one-year barrier to participation in such electoral processes. That's the first one. It's different. For members of political parties that are merged by restructuring or reorganization, which are represented in the authorities of the State. This project has absolutely nothing to do with those people. They are there as representatives of political parties on political, not legal, scale. Hence, there can be no restriction or regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u105	Gennady Samofalov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u106	Gennady Samofalov, faction of Party of Regions. Dear Roman Mihajlovich, I am not surprised that the author of the draft law is represented by a representative of the “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction. Why? Because there are nine parties today where passions and ambitions boil, and you don't know what to do with them today. Here you are today proposing a pressure mechanism and a mechanism that will allow the party to be exchanged in this way. We have a mechanism for bringing the party together. The Party of the Regions showed it when for the first time five parties in the history of Ukraine joined one party. Yeah, we're on our way, it's hard, we've had to convince all the members of these parties that we have to do this. But people have come consciously and today we have proved to everyone that the Party of the Regions today is a powerful, powerful party structure that brings together a million people first. Secondly, it has shown that it has a powerful faction in Parliament today and today it has its President. Because people came there knowingly, not what they were offering. I believe that there is no point in this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u107	I give due credit that the Party of Regions is a really strong party. That you wanted to hear more from me. Obviously, there is a problem in this bill, if you show me where pressure mechanisms can be applied to one political party or another, I'm the first one to talk about the need to reject it. There are totally voluntary processes, voluntary mechanisms, that want to join together in the way that is allowed here, which is the way that this is supposed to work. Please do this. I can't be any pressure here, I don't know what you're talking about. I absolutely pay my dues that you are a strong political party. Give others the opportunity to unite so that they too can be strong political parties in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u108	Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u109	I don't really understand the essence of this law. Please tell me why it's artificial to drive parties into one party, but it's not democratic. To this day you have been viewed as a democratic coalition, then there will be party members who, contrary to the decision of the political higher body, do not agree that the party as a whole will join another party to unite. It's going to be like that or not, so this is going to be like a Democrat again. What about human rights, man’s political rights, and how can they be resolved? I think that the issues on which you constantly emphasize property, property, tangible property. But I don't understand the relevance of the bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u110	Mrs. Catherine, frankly, I'm going to apologize, but when I speak from this rostrum and I address the national deputies, and I get some questions or comments, I've somehow always made an assumption that the national deputies who are speaking have at least read the bill themselves, which is being put to the hearing. It's obvious that I was wrong, because nowhere in this project is there any way to run, push, push on individual members of the party to make any decisions. Decisions are taken by the assemblies of these political parties, the highest bodies of one political party or another. A decision to accept it takes two thirds of the vote. I mean, I don't know how you can flip it here at all. It takes, really, to have some extraordinary skill, to reverse what's here in this project and to say that there are elements of pressure, some kind of pressure or something. It's not here. There is an absolute possibility of voluntary union, nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u111	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, please, from the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u112	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor” Block “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, I would like to comment briefly on the committee's decision. The committee has considered these two bills and considers it a timely initiative and thanks the initiators of these bills for the legislative initiative. When we considered this bill, we really decided for a long time which bill we would adopt as a basis. We propose bill 2002-1 to be adopted on the basis and taking into account that the author of the 2002 Boris Tarasyuk bill is prepared to make his comments and suggestions to this bill, for a second reading. Now I want to tell you, maybe from me, because there's a lot of questions here. On this rostrum is perhaps the only man who has been working on the question of the consolidation of political parties on the current legislative basis. And I want to tell you that the disgrace that I have experienced as the head of the UNP “Covere” in conjunction with the R & D, I do not want any of you to survive. Because you have to have a voluntary right to unite, then you have to eliminate your party, then the year has to go through all disposal facilities, including property, because you have no other right to dispose of it. It's a humiliating procedure for every member of the party, it's a disgrace! What's more, there are 170 parties today, or more, obviously political structure is a problem that Parliament has to solve, and I'm addressing my colleagues: believe the procedure I've been through, it's a procedure that will never allow unity. And that's why we have parties that are sold out, that go to elections, because they don't have a civilized, democratic way of uniting. If these standards are set, tell me, what does it take to get rid of the party? An assembly decision is needed and the party is eliminated, and two - thirds of the mergers are even more so. What humiliation are we talking about here? On the contrary, if we do not adopt this law, it is a norm that demeans members of the party. And that's why I'm not talking to politics right now, and I'm talking to mega-party first, which today could unite other parties into my party, let's say by creating a left center, by addressing communists, well, you can't unify if this law isn't passed. If this law is passed, you will be united, not through a process of humiliation, but through a democratic procedure. The same is true of me today, I won't call it a name, and he claims that if there was one party in Ukraine, there would have been no parliamentary crisis in our country for a long time. I say, if that's what you want, uphold this law. Then there will be a procedure that will motivate and encourage the parties to unite. I call on both myself personally and on behalf of the committee to support this law in the first reading. [[2002-1]] What's more, all the comments that have been made by science and expertise, I think we can count on the second reading. And those remarks that say it's a newly created party, well, forgive me. If the party has been united since 91 with a party that has just, well, 2 or 3 years of age, then say, membership in this party, from what point in time do we count the people who have joined together since 2010? Well, that's unfair again. It's humiliating again. So, aside from the policy that really, well, it's only because no one really got into this law, I'm proposing to support it in the first reading, and I think we're going to work on it, and we're going to be able to put a really democratic mechanism into the political structure of society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, we are continuing the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 15 minutes. And now I'm asking you to sign up for a question to a co-conspirator. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u114	Yuri Carmazin. In support of your report, I'd like you to make your arguments more possibly clear that the structure of the walrus is not just that. Structure can also be an election barrier, which will not be democratic at all, let's say, and to give you an argument that the decline in the number of parties, and vice versa, will lead to more civilisation and a European approach. I'd like you to answer that question. Is there any experience in other parts of the world of the unification of the parties that follow there? I know that you've studied this process and that might answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u115	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Yuri, for asking. I want to say that, in fact, the number of political parties and their multiplication is obviously a phenomenon in our society. And if we look at why this is happening, obviously we'll realize that active legislation does not allow political party structure because we've written down the liquidation mechanism, and if we're united, it's a newly formed party. And the newly formed party is limited to one year, which excludes it as the subject of the electoral procedure. Thus, there is no such conservative legislation anywhere in the world. We don't stand out here in the best way. On the other hand, we don't rule out this law forming blocks. But I want to tell you that if we adopt this law, I guarantee you that the blocks will be smaller. We're going to reduce the number of blocks involved in the election campaign. And obviously only after that will we be able to review, let's say, the 3% barrier or something else for the electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u116	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u117	Thank you. Anatoly Sergiyyovich, thanks to your speech, at least, although the tension has subsided in this session hall because I feel that the honourable reporter of the laws himself has not read, and the normal question of article 36 of the Constitution, which provides for the unification of citizens, has begun to show his rudeness here. Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, childhood illness - democratization in Ukraine requires what you said, it was 146, 164, it's 178, and so on. Clearly, political structures must survive, for the fact that nations have gone through hundreds, two hundred years through blood, through war, we must go through it quickly and in an evolutionary, peaceful way. Please tell me, according to the norm, this bill conflicts with article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine, because it is not a matter of political union – it is a matter of the right of citizens to be in political parties. How will you get out of this, for example, when preparing for your second reading? It will then be necessary to make changes to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u118	Thank you. Mr. Jaroslav, I absolutely agree with the fact that parties are a union of citizens. And there can be no unification of subjects other than citizens. But I want you to understand what we have. It may be necessary to improve the procedure in the second reading that this should be a procedure to form delegates for a meeting that will decide and discuss the matter in the entire party’s environment. Obviously, this can be referred to as a norm for second reading. And thus, the party must discuss its involvement in the process of unification by means of reorganization or not. Of course, it is not possible to convene a meeting without discussing the matter throughout the party, to put the matter in order of the day, and to drive a party into unity. Obviously, in order not to violate the right of each member of the party, it would be necessary for a second reading to establish a procedure for discussing this process and to give it some time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u119	National MP Pavlovsky, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u120	Andrew Pavlovsky. Dear Anatoly Constantineovich, or was it still necessary to set some time limits at the beginning of the merger procedure before a certain conclusion? Also, give some time to the members of these two united parties to make a decision for themselves during some final time, whether they are members of a united party, or whether they come out and remain unpartisan. And that's another question. If, for example, there is one party for 15 years and another party for two years, what kind of partying will there be, for example, members of a party that. in a party and that 15 years old, there are old members of the party?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u121	Your first question echoes the question asked by Mr. Jaroslav Suhi. Obviously, we have to prepare this procedure for the second reading of an internal discussion and give a time limit for each to be the right to identify and delegate his delegates to a meeting that has the right to make a decision. Obviously, this term should be discussed. Discuss and write this rule to the second reading. In terms of terms. If there's a party, what. Members of the party, for example, until the 91st year, and it's merged with a party that was formed only in the 1990s, those members of the party that are from the 91st are members of the party since the 91st year. And who's from the '90s is a member of a party united since the '90s. The registration remains the oldest party in Minsk. All other registration certificates are terminated, cancelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u122	Anatoly Sergiyovich, let me ask you a question: What about this practice that's been made up and developed lately that we're buying parties and they're calling everyone to the election right after that? And it's called price and they don't hide it. And we all know, including the people who bought the parties, and now, so that we don't help them with this law, they're going to have a huge history of this political party. Is it possible to predict how, in addition to moral condemnation or certain legal warnings? In addition, we have whole groups of people specializing in the registration of political parties as key. In particular, for this reason we have almost two hundred political parties today. Because they're waiting for another political campaign to sell their political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u123	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for a very wonderful question. I want to tell you that the phenomenon you're talking about requires that we take steps to change the Law on Political Parties. And this law isn't just about improving speculation by parties, it's about folding numbers. And I think it's possible for a second reading, if possible, to set up additional standards that would deny this procedure the shameful purchase of parties and exit as a stand-alone political force for the electoral campaign. This law may not fully address this problem, which you have rightly raised, but it does improve the situation in the direction of the problems you have raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the questions are exhausted, time is running out. Please sign up for the discussion. Names, please. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, there is certainly no denying that we need to continue the process and process of improving social and political relations, including basic bills, one of which is the law on political parties in Ukraine. I don't understand anything else, dear Roman Mikhailovich. What makes you so nervous about my normal tolerant question of article 36 of the Constitution, since this law is in conflict. I would like to remind you that this law, first and second, contradicts the explanation and decision of the Constitutional Court, which has clearly determined how this procedure of gathering signatures is to take place. I'm talking about the 2002 Bill. And your 2002-1 bill, it's the same as this bill, so it was also my intention to ask you questions about the clarifications and decisions of the Constitutional Court, under which article 36 of the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court clearly sets out. In order not to set up parties, from some corporate electoral interest in making money in order not to discredit the political movements themselves, it is necessary to sign and establish an all-U.S. status of one political party or another. The party ceases to exist, the party joins another party, and so on, but it's not even there yet. The order of registration of the political party, which was made out of four parties one, which was created as a result of the organization by merging or joining, I wanted to ask you and this question, you disobeyed it to the end. In contrast, I don't know who listened, who didn't read it, because I remember what Anatoly Sergiyovich said, how hard it was to form the Party of Regions on the basis of other political forces, including "Trug Ukraine", which, you remember, was still on the third call. And the last. I do not think that such a term as “legislation” takes place in the application of relations in the political sphere, because this is more about civil law relations. That's why, Your Honor Roman Mikhailovich, your nervous response is completely unclear to me as to the logic of this bill. If you are concerned about your possessions, you should also write a warning. Today, the representatives of the various political forces will confirm my rightfulness: in each charter of each political party, there is a clearly defined organization, a reorganization, an end to existence, which should be done by the audit committee, as it should be. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's right. That's exactly what I was asking, and instead, I got into some kind of misunderstanding. Dear colleagues, as you write the laws, at least read them yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u126	Pavlovski National Deputy, Timoshenko Yulia Block. Taras Cnerwell will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u127	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! These bills define a clear procedure for uniting political parties by reorganizing them and by merging them. A well - prescribed procedure for bringing these political parties together and holding assemblies, conferences, legal successions, and membership in this united party are being resolved. And I think it's, in principle, an up-to-date bill, taking into account what the previous reporters have said, in Ukraine now more than 170 parties and, in principle, the time has come, I think, the entrenched political forces. And this is to be done in a civilized way, without the humiliation of those party members who are to be united. Because if we have old parties that are 15 years old and that they are going to unite with others, then the members of these parties are going to lose certain party traditions, and I think we need to make this impossible, and this bill allows us to do so without demeaning the human dignity of these party members that are uniting. Therefore, the “Julia Timoshenko Block” proposes to support Bill 2002-1 in the first reading. And I think that's going to enable us to structure a really political sphere in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u128	Taras Blackwall, microphone, please, non-faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, as I am, the very idea is set in both bills. correct. We really have to do this today, at least, let's do this virtually right now, but create the conditions for the possibility of a larger party. Of course, this will not answer the 17o parties that are specially created for sale, and this problem cannot be solved by this bill. This problem is solved either by strict control over the registration process, by hard signature checks, and so forth. But we're reminding you that after one party, when they checked in, the signatures turned out to be not all right, which raised noise, gamma, and after that the party was still registered, even though they said the signatures were faked. So that's another problem. It is a matter of opening up a legal mechanism, a normal uniting of parties where political readiness arose. The new congregation of signatures to say that this is a mandatory norm and it has to be duplicated again, as for me, it is absurd. Because the existing parties that have passed the procedure, which are confirmed in Minsk, are not scheduled to be reregistered in this case, so normally, we can safely open the appropriate sllagbaum. So, as far as I'm concerned, we have to vote. Further work on second reading, because we need to write out more clearly the problems of succession, including property problems that might arise here, and, as for me, in the second reading, we can open, eventually adopt a normal bill that, although it would help us open the way for merger, will make the parties bigger so that we can finally have a powerful structured political society and not what we have now. And as for once again, the parties of the same day that they do for sale, and then the name changes, the leadership changes, and the brutal trade is made by this law, in principle, impossible to settle. Here, indeed, we need to adopt other laws in another field. This question is absolutely necessary, urgent, but it is not a matter of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-02-m1.u130	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. I'm going to put two bills to the vote, one at a time. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, despite the fact that National Deputy Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich has revoked the bill, this is already the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have to put it to the vote. You're just considering that he called him off and make the right decision. Understood Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine. [[on the integration of political parties]] I'd like to make a statement. [[18:11:13]] For 184 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of draft Act 2002-1 amending the Ukrainian Act on Political Parties of Ukraine. [[on the integration of political parties]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:11:44]] For 181 The decision is not taken. I am voting for the re-reading of draft Act 2002-1 amending the Ukrainian Political Parties Act. [[on the integration of political parties]] Please be sure. [[18:12:20]] For 273 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work from 10 a.m. to Wednesday. Thank you.
