ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for your registration. And invite the deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:15]] Cards were registered in the 386 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, at the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we included in the agenda a draft law on approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the armed forces of other States to Ukraine in 2010 to participate in multinational military training. [[Registration number 6378]] And now we have every reason to consider this matter. However, the President of Ukraine has identified it as urgent, and there are appropriate decisions by the committee and all necessary conclusions. I'm announcing the matter. I invite defense minister Ježel Mikhail Bronislavovich to report. The focal point will be the chairman of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Gritsenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u2	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished nationals! In 2010, Ukraine’s Armed Forces units participated in 21 international training in and outside Ukraine, 9 trainings are planned in Ukraine. By its decree of 12 May 2010, the President of Ukraine approved the decision of the National Security and Defence Council to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2010 to participate in many national military trainings that require approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During multinational training in Ukraine in 2010, the armed forces will carry out 18 percent of the annual war plans. During the course of these trainings, it will be practical to carry out training tasks with the exits of ships to the sea, with the flights of aircraft, and with the driving of combat equipment. This will enhance Ukraine’s military readiness and effectiveness. It should be noted that 16 countries will be involved in international training. More than three thousand military personnel are involved in Ukraine. Outside Ukraine, more than 600 military personnel will participate in the training. All learning has an exclusively peacekeeping theme. This is very important in the concept of preparing the Ukrainian Armed Forces to participate in international peacekeeping operations. Learning will enable greater interaction with the Armed Forces of partner countries and will allow for exchange of experiences in decision-making, the implementation of new technologies and the use of peacekeeping forces. And perhaps at this time, for our nation, it is important and the assistance that partner countries provide for teaching. So out of the 18.3 million dollars needed to conduct multinational education in Ukraine, our partners allocate 15.8 million dollars, which is 86 percent of the cost. In doing so, the budget of the Ministry of Defence will be only 2.5 million. Thus, such training is very beneficial for the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Honourable national electorates, taking into account the above-mentioned and taking into account the decisions of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, I ask you to support the bill on the admission of the military forces of other states in Ukraine in 2010 to participate in multinational military training. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, the Minister's report is complete. If you have any questions, please sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yuri Serbin, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u4	Mr. Minister, please tell me, which countries are being planned for training in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u5	In Ukraine, it is planned to participate: Russia, Belarus, Romania, Slovakia, Germany, Greece, Canada, and the United States are all 16 countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u6	Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u7	Actually, I have a comment, not even a question. We will definitely vote in favour, because this action makes it possible to increase the security of the military forces of Ukraine, and it is indeed the weight and assistance that other states are giving us. We will vote in favour. I'm the only one who wants to point out that these are armies and NATO, including, say, Romania, Germany, other countries. And this once again shows that NATO is an organization to which Ukraine is to enter if it cares for its independence and freedom. I just want to see how the regions are going to run. Did they take with them balls that will say "Deal NATO!" and something else, and how they will behave, let's say, there are Communists who are in one coalition with the Regions. That's what's called principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u8	May I have your attention, Your Honor? Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear reporter, I have also asked this question when discussing this draft law at the meeting of the National Security and Defence Committee, and now I want to go back to the same problem in the explanatory note to the bill, stating that its position does not affect the development of administrative units and regional development, and that there are no procedures and rules that may involve the risk of corruption. But it is also noted that this bill does not need to be discussed with the public. What about when the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, including the Odessa District Council, made their decisions on the matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u10	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u11	What we're talking about with the public is not entirely true, we've dealt with all of these issues, we've addressed the heads, we've warned. I can show you, I'm surprised you haven't been shown the letters that were, so just the reporter I wasn't, all the letters were prepared for the Lviv district administration, which means everyone who needs to be trained in the Zaporez area and so on. I can show you the letters all over the place. And as a matter of urgency, all questions will be addressed in the media, everything will be done accordingly by law enforcement, and no one will make any secret of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u12	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u13	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mr. Secretary of State! We, our faction, have always stood up for Ukraine's non-block status. But at the same time, we need to take care of our defenses. That is why we advocate giving permission to engage in foreign military formations during the course of our studies. But I have a question of another plan, and there are times when our Armed Forces are taking part in learning abroad? If so, give these examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u14	You may not have listened very carefully. The point is that we are planning to conduct 21 international studies, and of these only 9 in Ukraine, the other 12 will be conducted outside our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u15	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u16	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", the “Reforms and Orders” party. I am interested in a few small questions in this regard. First, whether Ukrainians are involved in learning abroad, in other states, and in how many, that is the first question. The second question concerns the paragraph in this decision, which reflects our cooperation with the Romanians. It's an extremely small number of military personnel and whether it's headquarters training, whether it's the work of the snake capture system, or what it is in this respect. And the third, the little question, which is whether joint measures are being taken to combat piracy, is that Ukraine suffers most of the world's most of all from this evil and this phenomenon. Thank you, three such small questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u17	As far as learning is concerned outside Ukraine, I have already reported that more than 600 military personnel will participate in these trainings. And I think it's just the last lessons. I'm counting to you, I've got time, and I can give you a list of the lessons that: Learning beyond Ukraine. The Ukrainian-Russian training of the anti-aircraft forces, the Ukrainian-Russian Armed Forces and the Russian Federation 20-21 October, NATO multinational trainings are open to partnership, “Brilliant Ardent – 2010, tactical training of air force units, Ukrainian-German teaching “Golden Mask – 2010” in April months, multinational teaching “Barrier – 2010” (14 days, June-September, Lithuania, Republic of Poland), Ukrainian-Belarusian teaching of anti-air defence forces, multinational teaching “Kombite Edvador – 2010”, tactical training of liaison units, Ukrainian-Moldian teaching “South – 2010”, Ukrainian-Romanian teaching, tactical training of military troops. The Multinational Teaching of NATO, Cooperative Mako2010. Multinational teaching "Jackel Stone-2010", Lithuania, Republic of Poland. Medkur-2020, Montenegro, NATO Multinational Education "Bold Evanger-2010", Turkish Republic. Here is a list of these teachings that are planned to be carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u18	There was another question: Will the fight against piracy work?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u19	This is exactly the kind of training that will focus on the fight against piracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u20	Jaroslav Jodzik, faction of "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u21	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Minister, the issue under consideration is inextricably related to the state of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. As we know, the state of financing for the Armed Forces today is essentially catastrophic. As we know, the joint training that we are talking about today is or is not the only possibility of actual combat training for Ukrainian soldiers. Last year, we all witnessed how the Party of Regions and the Communist Party broke down the same teachings. The Ukrainian People’s Party welcomes the change in position on this issue. Do you not think that the introduction and adoption of this bill could be a turning point, a stage in the return of faces to the problems of the Ukrainian army, and in the expansion of it. JEREMY M. I am very grateful if the Supreme Council, therefore, agrees and today vote for these teachings to take place. You said exactly, 86 percent of the costs would be borne by partner countries. The rest will be provided by Ukraine to provide such training. Unfortunately, today you understand the situation in Ukraine, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u22	National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u23	Please pass the word for the question to Eugene Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u24	Eugene Kzarykov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u25	Comrade Minister! On the issue of our defence. We are given an excellent draft decree, which states that in 1993, we started building the only rocket cruiser since independence. In 1994, we assigned him a title at the request of the Ministry of Defence, the name “Ukraine”, to the cruiser. In 1992-1993, money was spent. They didn't do anything about it. Construction was suspended in 1996-1998. In 1999, you entered into a new contract with the Ministry for the construction of the ship, and today, in parallel with the document requesting you to conduct the exercise, you submit such a paragraph to us. “According to the fact that the construction and acceptance of a rocket cruiser before the schedule of the Ukrainian Armed Forces of the Navy is not foreseen, we consider it appropriate to recognize the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as having lost its power.” I mean, we get it except for an underwater boat that doesn't have a battery.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u26	So finish the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u27	The Ministry of Defence said that in one single cruiser during independence, the name should be selected and cut into metal. That doesn't make the money you send easier.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u29	I just want to say that you must be very ill informed. The question is that the missile cruiser “Ukraine” as well as the three previous cruisers of such a class project 1164 “Ustinov”, “Slava” and “Red Ukraine” were built on orders from the Soviet Union. The only cruiser left unbuilt is the ship "Admiral Lobov". A decision was made at the time. We really wanted to build this cruiser for the U.S. Navy, but when we analyzed the situation of the Basel missile complex that's on these ships, it's obsolete and therefore there's no missiles like that in Ukraine. And the missiles themselves cost more than the cruiser himself. So a decision was made to build a cruiser. Today, this cruiser is not a cruiser of Ukraine; it is actually an object of construction. And that's why his name "Ukraine," it shouldn't be worn, it's an object that's going to be sold as a government order and, God willing, we're going to build it for the Russian Federation. As for the submarine, I would like to point out that there are battery batteries on it, yes. I also thought, once, that the batteries on the submarine would change is to lift the hood and change the batteries. So I'm telling you, 448 battery batteries, weighing every 650 kilos, are loaded by an underwater boat. I wish you'd go down there and see what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u30	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Thank you, Mikhailo Bronislavovich. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence, Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, the position of our committee is independent of who led it, my personal position has always been consistent: the international military training of Ukraine is needed both outside Ukraine and in Ukraine. This is for the benefit of our Armed Forces. Such a decision must be made. There's a question of content, essentially, there's a question of politics. By content. Under the conditions of how our army is now financed, and that is below the critical limit, thank God, our army is not fighting, but it must be maintained at a certain level of resilience. And military training is the only way to maintain this resilience. Why International? And because the decision of the government, the President and the Supreme Council makes our soldiers perform tasks outside the country. And now they're doing it in Liberia and Kosovo and Afghanistan and about a dozen other states as observers. According to the law, they should operate at a certain level of mutual compatibility with divisions and with the particular composition of other nations. International education is the only way to achieve this mutual compatibility. The minister reported that, and we confirm this, the training is balanced by the participants. There are NATO countries, there are non-NATO countries. Practically all our neighbors are involved. They are balanced according to the tasks of an exclusively peaceful nature. There is no confrontation in the scenarios that would create problems with other states in the west, the east, the north, or the south. It's been checked out. They're resource-balanced. I would not be happy if 86 percent of our expenses were paid. In fact, we could find 18 million dollars to teach. Just as other countries find us when they invite us to pay for all the training costs. Against the backdrop of the country’s billions, 18 million is not a large number. But nevertheless, who cares about this, only 14 percent of the funds are covered by us, and the rest are covered by our partners. First of all, the United States, the teaching of the Sea Breeze. As far as politics is concerned. We've had 2 years of military training broken down in the last five years. We know why, we know what political forces did this. There's actually a test going on today, a very interesting test. But it won't happen. Why won't it happen? Because the coalition will not be able to implement this law. The Communist faction takes its place year after year. And when the committee considered this question, of the 10 present 9 was in favour, one representative of the Company against. I hope the Company doesn't give a vote today. This means that it is possible to check. I hope that the opposition will put its back on the table, coming out of the state-wide importance of this bill, and that Parliament will vote together. And on this example, I would invite coalition representatives to take other decisions on other bills, raise their hand in one way or another, as Mr. Michael does, to think about the state's interest, not whether it's in the peak or the power or the opposition. I think we're going to pass this exam today. There was a warning that two councils — Odessa’s district council and the Supreme Council of Crimea — had spoken against these teachings. I don't think this factor is going to be very significant this year when Victor Janukovich's team is in power. And obviously the regions that are in our room will help our colleagues in Crimea and in Odessa to understand the right way to conduct military training and who really has the authority to make decisions about the time and place of their conduct. So there will be no further problems. But it did sound right in the speech of the Communist faction, and I think the Minister of Defense has to take this into account, and we need to do a wide-ranging explanatory work, not in the form of correspondence, but working with the local councils, the mayors of cities, rural, village, where the polygons are located, to explain to people the meaning, the orientation of these teachings in order to be positive to them. I propose, on behalf of the committee, to adopt this bill today as a foundation and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u32	Thank you. The question is. Please sign up for the questions. Names of the national MPs, please. People's MP Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u33	Well, I don't have as many questions as I want. Wish to all those who do not want to. There's an example of us in 2006, the beginning of the year, Feodosius. Please, go, shout, run like we did in the rain, but I was looking at the beginning of those teachings, which did not happen, what equipment there was to give to Ukraine. So we've changed our minds and we're initiating, and we invite you to vote. And whoever doesn't like it, go as we are, there is an example. Go in there, go in there, go in there. Don't forget the windshield.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u34	I don't think we should react here. I hope that none of the opposition forces and parties will protest in places of learning in order to deny them. That won't happen. And the fact that you've changed your position, I support that change.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u35	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u36	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Mr. Anatoly, there have been years in the history of an independent Ukraine when the Supreme Council failed to approve decisions on the conduct of such teachings. I would like to ask: has the attitude of the governments of those countries that planned joint teachings changed after, for example, last year's anti-Natian demonstrations, which appear to have been made only because there was another government and another president, and he was in trouble, and the government and the President, and this demonstration of his attitude? Today, voters who voted for the Party of Regions will be surprised that there are no balls, they will be surprised that they have changed positions. It turns out you can work with NATO. I'm happy to, but tell me, what harm did this cause to Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u37	Thank you for asking. I would urge all my opposition colleagues to hold back to the tone of their speeches right now, because we still have to make a positive decision. The rest of each other's reproaches can be better done in the towers. Because they're listening to us right now at the embassies, too. And I'm essentially going to say yes. It's a shame that in 2006, 2009 there was no education for this very reason that we didn't make a decision here in the Council. How do our partners feel about this? That's very negative. They work in a normal way, not like us. They don't take the budget in 15 minutes, they plan military training early, they make plans to prepare these time periods to come to Ukraine, they make passports, they make customs, they put money into the budget. And when it's all broken down, and we're holding them for the last second, like today: the second half of May, and they don't know whether they're going to be learning or not, it's affecting our image. That's in the two dozen states that the bill actually refers to. So one of the suggestions I made on the committee is that I would like the Head of the Supreme Council to support, perhaps, the President himself, that such a bill was tabled in December-month last year, and we would have accepted it early.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u38	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u39	The last argument, perhaps for someone, will be important. I checked that the President's decree to conduct these studies was issued on February 25th this year, the day before the inauguration of the current President. So in the document that Victor Janukovic made, 100 percent of what was planned for the previous President, Viktor Yushchenk. This speaks of succession, of the logic of what the army and the state need. There is no politics here, in the worst sense of the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u40	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u41	Dear Anatoly Stepanović, this year we will celebrate the anniversary date 20 years after the adoption of the Declaration of Sovereignty. The non-block status of Ukraine is a key theme of this declaration. I think that this year we are legislatively formalizing Ukraine's off-block status. We believe that building relations with all countries, positive relations with all countries, is for Ukraine. That is, on the one hand, we have prolonged the Black Sea fleet's stay in the Crimea, and on the other hand, we will participate in joint exercises with NATO troops without joining NATO without losing part of our sovereignty. We see this as positive as a non-block state. Do you see a positive or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u42	I'll tell you what. First. I worked with the Government of Yanukovic in 2006-2007. I can say absolutely responsibly that during that period, NATO cooperation was much deeper in practical matters, including military operations than in all those Governments that you call “orange”. Kosovo, both in its decision on Iraq and Afghanistan, and on the active efforts of operations in the Mediterranean. With regard to your theme “legislatively establish extra-block status”. I would advise you and us to be wiser. Why? It's actually off-block right now. And let's put three points. Let us not adopt here a law that will limit our ability in the future when the country is governed by perhaps other people in other circumstances. No one's demanding it now. In fact, Ukraine is a non-block State. Let's make it three points. Let's leave ourselves a wise choice. I will not vote in favour of the Extra Block Status Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u43	Thank you. Anatoly Stepanovich is exhausted all the time. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the bill. Please. Dear colleagues! So let's see who wants to sign up for the speech -- who's going to write it down, who understands -- waits for those who think it's necessary to express their position. Please sign up for the factions, then the national MPs. May I have your name, National Deputy Jazynowski, please? 27 minutes to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u44	Thank you. Vladimir Jazynowski "Our Ukraine". Our faction, in contrast to others, thought, but did not change our mind about making other decisions, and we both stood still and would consistently stand on the fact that the security of the state with all its neighbours and potential partners should continue as closely as possible. What's more, I want to stress when we're only talking about the ability of the state -- it's not a complete package of teachings that we're talking about today. Part of those teachings includes a common strategy and a common policy on technological and other dangers that may arise in Ukraine. I want to remind you that there are nuclear reactors in Ukraine, a number of large chemical enterprises that can pose a threat not only to Ukrainian citizens but also to our neighbours and to all of Europe. That is why it is only fair that these teachings, and the technological dangers themselves, are part of the danger to Ukraine and to the neighbors and to Europe as a whole. So it's perfectly fair for the share, and most of the time you know more than 80 percent of the resources of our partners, that these joint learnings will be conducted, which will enable us to coordinate our work as much as possible, both in our military formations and in the formation of neighbouring friendly states, who want to lay the back of our aid in any case, when we consider a situation that could happen in our territory. I would like to expect that those political forces that have recently walked in our faction, in our parliament with balls, will take the state's position, just like the faction that is now responsible for the basic state of the economic, social, political and armed, and with common sense, will listen to the proposals that we have stood on and voted in favour of ratifying those agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u45	Deputy Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u46	I'm handing Kuzmuk over.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u47	Alexander Kuzmuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is certainly an extremely useful measure for the state. Think of it as just taking part in three types of armed forces, seven types of troops, the subject of training is not just joint tactical and tactical actions, but the issue of evacuation and assistance to the population, the conduct of health care and other things. Staff officers are also involved. How is the preparation of such a law different? Because he was prepared and approved by the Security Council and submitted in due course to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the first point of the President of Ukraine is to strengthen the security of the state, resulting from this proposal to endorse the decision of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u49	Valérie Behves is handing over the right to speak to Peter Simonek, a faction of Communists. The next one will be Paul’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u50	Respectable colleagues and respectable voters! The President's election shows that the people of Ukraine have rejected the anti-Ukraine nationalist policy of oranges and that this should be reviewed by our State's policies, including in the area of joint military exercises and, more so, by NATO States. The fact that we need to change, including our approaches, is becoming increasingly evident today. In Europe, the initiative of the Russian Federation is actively being considered, in fact, on a new European security algorithm. Therefore, in today's consideration of this issue, the Company's faction is based, above all, on its consistent position, which we have declared, based on the position of Ukrainian citizens, that is, on the position of our voters. This position today requires President Yushchenko to take a decision in response to the demands of Ukrainian citizens to hold an all-Ukrainian referendum. More than four million citizens have addressed this issue. The Central Electoral Commission confirmed this, the Constitutional Court requires the President of Ukraine to hold a referendum. We hope that Victor Fedorovic will take this initiative and a referendum will take place. Today, we must take very seriously to properly determine our direction, and in particular to participate in the Collective Security Treaty or to establish the extra-block status of our State. Therefore, today, one of the main questions is, of course, to answer the will of our voters and, in a referendum, to determine the policy of the State, first and foremost, to join NATO and to conduct joint exercises. The second problem we need to talk about today is, above all, ensuring real security. We, comrades, are talking about conducting exercises with NATO troops, and do you, distinguished colleagues, remember when we had Ukrainian exercises? When we were playing the children's game "Zarnica", we were more involved in this game than today, so to speak, in some of the exercises here in Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] There were no Ukrainian teachings. We are talking about coordination with other, interconnectors of other armies, and we do not have this coordination. Comrades, here's the question, gentlemen of nationalists. [[B in m in s a l in]] We have the defence capacity of the country lost, there is no naval force, there is no air force, there is no missile complex, there is no missile complex. What are we talking about? Therefore, I would like once again, my distinguished colleagues, to draw your attention to the fact that the NATO bloc is an aggressive bloc, events in Yugoslavia, the Middle East, Afghanistan, rather than reaffirming that Ukraine must end this and pursue Ukrainian, independent, independent policies. Above all, to ensure the defence capacity of your country, rather than to serve as a second base and staff capacity, and the smoked meat that you yourself are, or that you are preparing for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u51	The Pavlovsky National MP, he's handing over the right to speak to Oleg Laska. Andrew School will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u52	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Our faction will vote in favour of this law. And I would like to repeat now the words of Alexander Kuzmuk, a member of the faction of the Party of Regions that he has just said about this law: “This will allow for the strengthening of the defence of the state, a useful step for the state, etc.” Dear Alexander Ivanovich, why not just ask why you didn't say so when Parliament was blocked in 2008 for two months and you objected? When were the decisions to conduct these trainings not made in 2009? When it comes to -- I don't give military grade, there are military graders in this room, they'll give grades -- I'm just talking about political ratings. When it comes to the national interests of the state, its probabilities, party affiliation, interests, factions, and so forth. For us, the main interest is the national interests of the state. And when the faction of the Party of the Regions, in opposition, in spite of the national interests of the State, blocked decisions in Parliament that would allow for the strengthening of the country's defence, to increase the resilience of our armies, where were the interests of the state? They were in second place, because populism was first, and only their own party interests came first. Today, when the faction of the Party of Regions in power, thanks to God, has come, and today you're telling us what we've been saying a year ago, and last year: that these teachings are a country plus, that's for our Armed Forces plus, that's to enhance the image of our country in the world plus. It's the same thing. No minuses. And today, when you're in power, you finally realize that. So evidently, even when they were in opposition, they were conscious. But their own party selfish interests were ahead of the country’s interests. And it's an absolutely unacceptable thing when it comes not to politics, but to the interests of the state. We are in opposition today. But we, our faction, the opposition faction will support the law passed by President Yanukovic. Because for us the interests of the state, the interests of the country in the first place, despite President Yanukovic, or President Yushchenko introduces these bills. We wanted our colleagues to follow our example from today’s authorities. And to act in accordance with the interests of the state, whether you are in opposition or in power. That is why we are going to vote, and we wanted to put Ukraine's interests first, and then all the other issues, as well as all the forces represented in Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u53	Andrew Shkel, Faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, just one request. Just keep it down a little bit. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u54	Dear National Deputies! Dear radios and television sets! Dear Chairman! I think the previous speech introduced you to the faction position. We're really going to vote in favour of this bill and actually here I'd like to talk calmly. This position should always be state-owned. Unfortunately, in many and in the Party of Regions, it is primarily changing depending on where they are in opposition or in power. And in fact, the country's interests have to dominate at least once, even if once it dominates the interests of that political force that you represent here. Unfortunately, you didn't have it. At the time that you put balls in here and the hymn was about pops and sausage, you said you had to spend the wrong amount of money, and now it turns out that the cost of learning how to spend is right. That's how I got it. Then it turns out to be wrong. Because they didn't waste. Those weren't the ones they spent. And you know this is the concept of political conscience, which must always be there. The society that is watching you is doing well in this regard. And you have to be brought up. For he who does not have a political conscience needs discipline, for this is important. You should remember that the next time, and this will be soon when you are in opposition, you must continue to stand up for your position, not your position. This is the most important reason why he will teach voting for this law. But when you take the approach yourself, what is learning? What is learning internationally, internally, externally? This is the security of the country. So by voting against it, you are then, and your allies are now voting against the country's security being high. That's the problem. I mean, it wasn't necessary then, and now all of a sudden, when the situation became, well, like the power needed by the army, its minister, its qualified minister of defense, it's somehow impossible to let him down. So at least in this situation, you're going to have a very political conscience, don't lose it when you're in opposition again, you won't lose the sense of this political conscience when you're given the conditions and offers of territorial sovereignty and independence of Ukraine. Remember that from this rostrum and from this session hall you said that Ukraine needed to increase its security, sovereignty, and so forth. So this vote will not only be in support of the country's security, it will be a vote as a teaching and an illustration of the need to have a permanent political conscience. We're voting for it then and now, and you're voting for it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u55	Leonid Graz, Communist faction. Since Leonid Ivanovich is also given the right to speak by his colleague Gordienko, six minutes later.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u56	I think Gennady Gennadievich, when you come to Crimea, you'll all be immediately remembered in the end, including the NATO service. There's a saying with the great Russian people: the nice are fighting, they're just enjoying themselves. This is the case for the regions, the oligarchic party. This is the case with BUIT. Those who have moved west to such a position that they rejoice with one another today. Second. Dear Mikhail Broneslavovich, you, of course, would be a diplomat of God, in an army like yours in diplomacy. You're so beautiful around here, and you specifically said that Russia was involved, and so on and so forth. And you look at the order of the numbers, and then you prove here how you use your defenses. And the order of the numbers is that there are 626 people who attend the training abroad! In 11 exercises, 626 people! There are, there are, like, 50, 30, 35 and so on. What kind of defense are you talking about?Oh, my God! Second. You will look at the phase you are planning here, in Ukraine and in particular the Crimea. You'll see how curious. Slavian world, 50 people from Ukraine and 30 people from another country. You will look at the multi-national Barrier2010 exercises, 100 people in multinational exercises are receiving from Ukraine and 100 from Western countries. Or look at what's nice about both sides. This is the U.S.-U. exercise "Si Breez2010". The Leonid Kuchma case, since 1997, and Peter Nikolaevich and I have been with tens of thousands of people on the Black Sea coast under the Eupatoria and have not done so, and the case continues today. Yushchenkah and Yanukovichh. So, look at the order of numbers that is planned at the "Si Breez 2010" Ukrainian-American exercises. One and a half thousand from Ukraine and 950 from America. Those that were actually chased three years ago for the Crimea. Then the question arises. I understand that this is where the Democrats can tell me that I'm the Democrats in the coffeehouses that the Party of Regions will explain to the Crimea, Odessa, to shut their mouths. That's how we need to understand these Democrats. But you can do it to those who are in charge of the faction councils. They can be redesigned just like today’s senior friends. But you can't overwhelm public sentiment. There's no such thing as public sentiment. And tell me then, Mikhail Bronislavovich, why do you know that this is a particularly challenging fact with regard to Crimea, the Crimeans, that the Crimeans will not allow it anyway, and you know how they will resist, why do you plan the Ukrainian-American Sea Breeze 2010 specifically on the peninsula? Why are you doing this? In order to provoke the situation and to complete what is now essentially apostatized. And President Yanukovic should know that he is in violation of all his obligations to the electorate, for which he has been supported by the south-east. For what he's violating, I think he'll do the same with both his language and his brotherhood with Timoshenko. For that, of course, the South-East will return the story in a year and a half when you, the regions, go to the polls. It is a disgrace to those who wish to conduct the "Si Breez 2010" in Ukraine and the Crimea. It is a disgrace to those who, for the sake of a few hundred people, only to the point of doing so, to improve Ukraine's ability to defend itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u57	Peter Simonenko hands over the right to speak to Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Next is Anatoly Kinakh instead of Mikhail Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u58	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to confirm again -- today this position has already been heard from the rostrum -- but I would like to reiterate once again that the Communist Party of Ukraine and its faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine are always consistently opposed to cooperation with NATO. This is the first time. Second, there are a few key questions. It's about military training. I ask the question: Who has to learn? And I answer it myself: in Ukraine’s world gendarme, which has invaded foreign territory more than 50 times since World War II. Another rhetorical question: Why study? Learning how to bomb the Balkans, how to destroy bridges, how to destroy civilians, how to destroy embassies? Or learn how to destroy the Iraqi people because there is oil. Because even after the Americans were completely conquered there, it's already quite obvious that there was no nuclear weapon and there was no nuclear weapon, and it was all fiction. Is it to learn how to fight the people of Afghanistan, whose territory has an advantageous strategic position? One more question. Take a look at the interesting practice of training. When teaching with American participation, 850 people and 20 days, the second training is 450 people and 30 days. When the Kingdom of Great Britain is over 400 people and 12 days old. And now we're looking at 30 people and 8 days with the Republic of Belarus. But most interestingly, it's different. There is a third point in this decree: all other trainings and all the other armies allow to enter the territory of Ukraine. And they recorded paragraph three as an abuse: “The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to deal with matters concerning the participation of the Russian Federation Armed Forces in joint military training.” Let them, and with these arrangements, promise that if, in what way it will be done. Dear colleagues, let's not make fun of each other. I want to reaffirm once again the position of the Ukrainian Company faction that we are consistently opposed to having a foreign boot trampling around our Ukrainian land. And that's why we're not going to support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u59	Anatoly Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u60	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! Very smart and responsible things are being heard in this room. And when it comes to the national security of the state, the defence, regardless of political competition, personal ambitions, everyone, and in the hall, in parliament, and outside, must unite the political will, minds, resources to strengthen the national security of Ukraine and the security of our state. President Viktor Yanukovic's position is and will be consistent, and in this direction I would like to remind you that at all stages the positions of the non-block status of Ukraine and the activation of Ukraine's participation in the formation of both European and global collective security systems have been clearly formulated. And the position of the faction of the Party of Regions today confirms the sequence that is focused on national interests. I would like to remind you, honourable national deputies, that the world around us is changing very and very much. And the world, starting with the European community, is gradually freeing itself from the relics of “cold war” and instead of resisting as it is in Europe and the world, is looking for mechanisms of consolidation of efforts to increase overall global collective security, common resistance to international terrorism, joint opposition to phenomena such as environmental, technological phenomena, and all that threatens life, the security of citizens. It is vital that today’s discussion also allow us to join forces to support, including a new edition of the Ukrainian National Security Strategy, as required by our legislation, the adoption of a modern one that is in line with Ukraine’s national interests and world trends, the Law on the Principles of Ukraine’s Internal and External Security. It is absolutely necessary to consolidate efforts to create favourable conditions for the development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to implement the Corvette-type construction project, a multi-purpose tactical missile complex, and to modernize ours. "Buk-M1", "Buk-M1-2", etc. We therefore propose, we call on the people's deputies to support the decision of the President of Ukraine to participate in multinational military training, and on this example continue to consolidate efforts to protect and protect and strengthen the national security of our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u61	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u62	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of Regions, representative of the President of Ukraine in Parliament. Dear colleagues, the President, when he suggested that we consider this bill, it was primarily because in this room, no matter what factions we belong to, no matter what regions we represent, we are all patriots of Ukraine. And questions related to the protection of national interests are axiom for all of us. All of us must make an effort to ensure that our army is able to protect our borders, and our security is guaranteed. As a result of this, he offered us this bill in carrying out the responsibilities and responsibilities entrusted to the President. Its logic is that Ukraine as a result of these actions, these teachings will enhance the ability to protect national interests, including in the military sphere, and those that will take place, they will allow us to acquire a new quality level, and allow us to coordinate efforts with others, primarily counter-terrorism activities of the entire civilized world. I would like to point out that neither the position of the President nor the position of the Party of Regions has changed throughout its political activities. If today our opposition colleagues are criticizing the Party of Regions for its failure in previous years to carry out such trainings, such bills are now being proposed. A party of regions will vote for it, and this position comes from the fact that the previous authorities, as you remember, have consistently spoken for Ukraine to become a member of the NATO bloc. And this, I mean learning, was going to be a step towards implementing this strategy. Today, a similar course has been changed, the political position remains consistent, and Ukraine itself has to maintain the status of the nonlock state. And as for cooperation, military cooperation, including NATO, we have never denied it the way it does, and the Russian Federation and many other countries. We need to work together, but to join the blocs, the more military we don't get into national interests right now. So please support the bill proposed by the President and do not.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u63	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u64	To speculate on these questions. Thank you for your attention, I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u65	Dear colleagues! Since the name was Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, he is entitled to a replica, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u66	Now the former opposition, colleague, Gogol said: “Let me not let you! What am I addressing to you? First, has Ukraine been a member of the Council of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership since 1994? President Yanukovic's decree, second line: “Ensure and take into account Ukraine's commitments to its participation in the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council of the Peace Programme”. In 2007, the government of Viktor Yanukovic, it takes a decision that obliges all authorities to provide training and we voted, but not within NATO, but within the framework of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Programme and we have done so, Ukraine is consistently fulfilling its commitments. And Victor Janukovich’s program made it clear that he would fulfill his obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for consideration of the bill is exhausted. Dear colleagues, we have considered the whole program. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's make a decision, and then respond to the President's statement, that's your right. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down. We have completed our consideration of an extremely sensitive issue and I would ask us all here in the session hall, if we are the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not to push the people on slippery slopes. Because we were looking at one contraversive, then one part of the population was indignant, and now another part of the population is going to be indignant. Let us come out of what is in Ukraine’s national interest and make the right decision. I ask you, Your Honor, calmly prepare for the vote on the bill now. [[Registration number 6378]] I am voting on a draft Ukrainian law to approve the decision of the President of Ukraine to allow the military forces of other states in Ukraine in 2010 to participate in multinational military training. To adopt the Law on the Adoption of the Decision of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[17:02:33]] For 394 Dear colleagues! Decision taken. The factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u68	Well, what motives, dear fellows! One minute, Party. Did we take the whole thing? The law was passed in general. We put him to the vote once. Yeah. The Party of Regions – 169, "Clock of July Timoshenko" – 146, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 56, communists – 0, "Clock of Lithuania" – 19, non-factional – 4.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, please sign up for five minutes of motivation, please. Sign up, five minutes, respectable colleagues. Names of the national MPs, please. Pavlovsky’s national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, first of all from the Communist Party. I think that after the pronatov coalition is pulling us into teaching with NATO, I think that if you're honest, the principle of strength you have to protest to get out of this pronatov coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u71	Victor Taran, Timoshenko Street. Victor Taran. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I think we will at last come to understand the words of Simon Petluri, who is so afraid of Communists, but who said there were Bolsheviks on one side of the triangle of death, there were Poles on the other, and there were Poles on the other, and there were Denikin on the third. But he said a nation higher than a party is a state higher than a class. Absolutely perfect words. In all our differences with our colleagues in those ranks today, I'm glad that we're in principle in spite of the entire previous conflict, we're essentially taking the position that is in favour of the Ukrainian state. I don't want to argue with anyone right now. I think eventually everything will be in place, and, I think, the Ukrainian state will have a perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u73	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u74	I would like to thank the opposition for their support for Ukraine's off-block status, which requires an equal relationship with all countries and the Black Sea Navy prolongation in the Crimea and, on the other hand, joint exercises. Thank you for supporting the President, who is at the forefront of the work on strengthening the country's security, strengthening its economic power, thank you for showing today the power of Parliament, when we are consolidated, we are indeed working together with the President to Ukraine. The people missed the constructive work of Parliament. Thank you. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! Valérie Behves is handing over the right to speak to Peter Simonenko and Peter Simonenko next, so two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u76	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I would like to take this opportunity to address our voters. Unfortunately, Parliament does not reflect the interests of most of our citizens. And that's obvious. This is also a threat to statehood and independence. The people of Ukraine, by all sociological measures of all sociological centres, clearly two thirds of our population claim to be against this policy in cooperation with NATO. In various studies, different age categories, the social strata of our society claim and declares that they disagree with such policies. That's why I'd like to warn you, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies! When we bear the name of the people's deputies, we must reflect in our vote the interests of our constituents. In this case, you have gone against the interests of our constituents and voted against their will, as expressed in all sociological studies. Secondly, I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues to draw conclusions from this discussion today. There is a need to end the hutarian policy that has been in place in Ukraine for 18 years. For 18 years, the enormous potential that we had with you, creating an independent state, scattered, scattered, scattered, ripped apart, looted, and so on. We're on our way to the army. Once again, I would like to emphasize that this is not only a loss of defence, it is a threat to the world community. Ukraine is also listed as a list of those States that today have illicit arms trafficking, which is the fact that today, in Pavlovgrad, we have major problems in the chemical field with regard to the security of our State, stealing and deploying whole systems. On duty, a citizen of Yushchenko removes the systems and translates them in order for Aggressor Saakashvili to kill his people. A decision must therefore be taken. And I think we should hold a referendum on the choice of military-political.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u77	Oleg Laszko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u78	Please give me your word. How are you? I forgot. I'll get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u79	Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u80	From the Lighthouse, please. I'm sorry, colleagues, it's already been decided. And we still have many drafts that apply not only to military battalions but also to peaceful working life. So there's a request: to move from the political plane to the same pace that the bills adopted, and to close it down. The decision is already made and let them train there. And in any case, I don't think the defense should suffer from it. That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are going to consider the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. [[on the procedure for the registration of the employment contract]] Rapporteur: Ukrainian National Deputy Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovic. Correspondent: Head of the Subcommittee on Social Policy and the work of Schmelov Svetlana Alexandrovna Yuri Volodymyrovich, how about a reduced procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u82	There's a short cut.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u83	Dear colleagues! Requesting support for a proposal to review the bill, registration number 2784, under reduced procedure. [[17:09:35]] For 256 Decision taken. Yes, please, Yuri. Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u84	I'm there for you, Baby, take your seats. Dear colleagues! A bill is proposed under number 2784 amending the Labour Code, which deals with the procedure for the registration of the employment contract. By the way, it was a paradox, when military battalions were considered and marched, that's exactly what the military couldn't take the word. And now the military personnel report on the peace bill itself. So I'm also asking you to work on this wave, as they say. It's very short. It's the only thing. That in the Labour Code, employment registration can only be performed by employment services, but the situation has changed. And today, with the formation of market relations, socio-economic transformations in one way or another, we have to do with employment. A new subject of labour law, a natural person, has emerged. And accordingly, there are a number of problems that need to be addressed by the means of labour law. First of all, it is to create the right conditions to protect the interests of workers and employers, to develop the social partnership of all workers associated with them. Under existing legislation, the registration or removal of the employment contract between natural persons and employed workers is carried out by basic employment centers in Ukraine. At the same time, the presence of both parties is a prerequisite for registration or withdrawal. At the same time, for example, there are many individuals with dozens of employees, sometimes hundreds of hired workers. Such individuals often give general orders to present their full possessions and civil interests in all institutions. However, such an assignment does not have legal effect on the registration or withdrawal of employment contracts. In the light of the above, the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine needs to be introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u85	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u86	Part of the change in the procedure for the registration of employment contracts. And so it is proposed to amend article 24 with footnote 1 of the Ukrainian Code of Law on the Work of Ukraine in accordance with the Ukrainian Civil and Economic Code, which will allow for the removal of numerous conflict situations and enable individuals to exercise their right to entrepreneurship in better conditions, as well as to facilitate the work of specialists in the employment centres. There's a comparative table. The Committee's findings are positive for the profile. And the scientific expert's conclusion is that the bill can be adopted as a basis. This is, believe me, the problem of all our cities and all our businesses. There's no politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u87	Thank you. Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelov, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u88	Your Honor, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on February 4, 2009, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work considered a bill amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine in exchange for the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymirovich. [[on the procedure for the registration of the employment contract]] [[Registry No. 2784]] [[of 11.12.2008]] The bill proposes to amend article 24.1 of the Labour Contract Code. According to the author of the bill, the changes he has proposed will simplify the procedure for registration and knowledge in the State Employment Service, which has already been concluded between the employee and the natural person who is the employer. He felt that the adoption of the bill would bring about the standards of article 24. In accordance with the rules of civil and economic legislation, which will enable many conflict situations to be tackled, this Code will enable natural employers to exercise their right to entrepreneurship in the best possible conditions, as well as to facilitate the work of specialists in the employment centres. The Committee supports the legislative proposal that allows a natural employer, on a notary basis, to assign his or her duties to an authorised person for registration or withdrawal from the public employment service of a contract made between an employee and a natural person who is an employer. It is also noted that article 308 of the draft Ukrainian Labour Code, adopted as a basis in the first reading, also provides that the employment contract is submitted for registration by an employer or a person authorized by him no later than within a week of the beginning of his employment. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council reports that the first reading of the draft law can be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u89	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u90	In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending the Code of Laws on Ukraine's work to be adopted as a basis. [[on the procedure for the registration of the employment contract]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u91	Thank you, Svetlana Alexandrovna. Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to discuss the bill, please register. Well, if we don't want to talk about it, then we'll vote. Pavlovsky’s national deputy. And Carmazine. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to support the bill of our colleague Prokopchuk. It allows for the registration of contracts between an employee and a natural person, which was previously not available, in the State Employment Service. I think that's what makes the employment contracts register. And that's a plus. On the Social Policy Committee I belong to, this law was supported. And as for the previous bill, I'd like to go to the Communists again: you're always indignant, and what did you think when you went to a coalition with the Crooked Oligarchs of the Party of Regions instead of defending your interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u93	Microphone, please turn it off. All of it. Please, Your Honor, in accordance with the Rules, speak only on the substance of the matter that is being discussed. Please, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u94	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't know how much of a connection can be found with the creation of jobs related to the previous consideration of issues, the National Security Fundamentals Act, which recognizes that if there is no work, it is a threat to national security, with what we are told is a change in course and with the law that we are now adopting in the Code of Law. on amendments to the Labour Code. I think it also matters, and Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would ask you to continue to react quickly, as you have now responded to the words of the "our soldiers" guy, because there is no such definition in the Constitution. We have the "protectors of the country", the "soldiers" are out there somewhere. So for the patriots of the state, for the national MPs who take an oath, they're not like the words.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u95	Yuri Anatoliyovich, please come to Bill 2784.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u96	Here's the bill, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I'm telling you that this has a direct connection, because I've been indignant since the previous bill. And this bill needs to be adopted in the first and second readings and saved the time that now two regulations for one person were given to the Communist factions. Why? I thought they were going to announce an exit from the coalition. They didn't find anything in them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u97	Microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. True, the offer to accept it as a whole was made as the Law. I first put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on Ukraine's work. [[Registration number 2784]] [[on the procedure for the registration of the employment contract]] [[17:19:00]] For 368 Decision taken. There was an offer to adopt the bill as a law. Who denies it? There's no objection. In view of your unanimity support, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Code of Laws on Ukraine's work as a whole as a law. [[on the procedure for the registration of the employment contract]] Registration number 2784. Please vote. [[17:19:47]] For 363 Decision taken. So the law was passed. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider bills that actually share a common root: 3346, 5084, 5142. These are proposals for amendments to the Law on State Prizes. I ask you to maintain this order of consideration of these two laws. Three laws. Now we're going to put to the vote a motion to withdraw draft Law 5084. Where it refers to the establishment of the honorary title “Deserved Counsel”. The author of the bill requested that he be removed from consideration at all. We need a decision from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the first stage. And step two. We'll then, if you support it, we'll decide to consider them as a reduced procedure, and then we'll conduct these two bills on the prize case. Is there no objection? That is why I am voting on the motion to withdraw the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes. [[on the establishment of honours in the field of lawyers and notaries]] Once again, registration number 5084, please vote. [[17:21:32]] For 328 Dear colleagues! Now the proposal for consideration of Bills 3346, 5142, is reduced because they are combined. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes. [[about the order in which the honors are assigned]] I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[17:22:10]] For 273 Decision taken. According to Bill 3346, the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Bodnar Olga Borisovna. According to Bill 5145, 42 I apologize to the Ukrainian national deputy Senchenko Andri Vilenović, co-reporter of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government by Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u98	First, I'm the author and co-reporter, so I'll save you some time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u99	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u100	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The bill that you're proposing is designed in response to the number of citizens who have come to my address. The point is that, according to the current edition of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes, honorary titles are assigned only to persons working in the economic, social and cultural spheres concerned and have high achievements and professional skills. It is because of the application of the law of the formulation of “working persons” that officials deprive themselves of the opportunity to be represented for such a high national reward as “deserved workers who are no longer working in the relevant field but who are retired” that is quite painful for our fellow countrymen, and especially for the elderly who have worked hard all their lives, that they have had high achievements but were not of those, and other reasons, rewarded during their work. This is also done by working groups who remember their outstanding employees and want to initiate their awards to festive events, such as the Jubilee. This bill is designed to solve this problem. It is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes in accordance with which persons who have worked in the economic, social and cultural fields for at least 20 years for women and 25 years for men and who have high achievements and professional skills are entitled to be presented with honorary titles of Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention immediately to the fact that since the bill was tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council as early as 2008, the acquisition of legal validity has been foreseen since 1 January 2009. Today, this rule is usually out of date and will be corrected when the bill is drafted for second reading. I would also like to point out that the implementation of the bill does not require further implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u101	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u102	additional financial expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine. And the idea that its acceptance will result in an automatic increase in the number of winners is wrong, since the number of persons awarded depends on being excluded from the President of Ukraine, whose decrees are based on State rewards. To conclude my statement, I would like to stress once again that the adoption of the law will allow the honorary titles of Ukraine not only for working persons but also for those who are no longer working, but for the rest of their lives have worked hard in the relevant fields of economic and socio-cultural spheres, have high achievements and professional skills. Please be supportive. And if you'll excuse me, from the committee I'm going to tell you right now that our committee has considered this bill on December 3, 2008, when it was discussed by members of the committee, it was unanimously supported, on the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support it as a basis. I will point out that, according to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, the implementation of the bill in the event of its adoption will have no impact on the income or expenditure of the budget and its implementation during the current budget period. Please support the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u103	Thank you. Have a seat. Please, National Deputy Sanchenko Andry Vilenović. Is there a reporter for Bill 5142? None. Sergei Gordienko from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u104	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The bill, introduced by deputy Senchenko, proposes to apply the publication on the official website of the President of Ukraine of biographic data. The presentation of a reward letter that will record the specific merits of the recipient — the text of the decree. The bill also proposes to improve the exact list of public authorities of the submitting entities and to organize the procedure for submitting candidates to the national awards of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 7 April 2010 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on State Prizes (on the Publicity of the System of State Awards of Ukraine (Registration No. 5142) submitted by the People's Chamber of Shadows and suggests that, according to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, the implementation of the bill would have no impact on income and expenditure. The Rules Committee also informs the committee, and we are on behalf of the committee that it is registered in accordance with established legislation. The Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy considered the bill in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and there are no objections to it. The main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion, has made quite a number of comments and proposals to the bill, noting that the issue in question in general deserves attention. In particular, the authorities believe that there are problems in the area mentioned in the Explanatory Note to the Bill, not because of their legislative imbalance, but because of their failure to comply with the requirements of applicable legislation. So the board thinks it's a proposal to send the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u105	Please. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u106	During the discussion at our committee meeting, a proposal was made. The committee offered. As a result of the first reading of the bill, the bill was adopted as a basis. Seven votes against one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a discussion of Bills 3346, 5142. Please, let the recording take place. Shadowenko is the author of Bill 5142. Please explain the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u108	Dear colleagues! You know, I took a list of awards awarded during Ukraine's independence and tried to split it, but it's entirely subjective to this list into three columns. For those who have received it, there is no doubt. They're miners, doctors and teachers. For people I don't know, my subjective point of view is that it's a lot of business and politics. And the third column is an inexplicable thing at all. I think if each of you took a list of the highest prize winners and, for example, another test would do: put a plus, who would you bring your children or grandchildren to school for a lesson in patriotism? I would like to say that far from every Ukrainian hero's name, there will be this plush. The purpose of the proposed bill is to stop the sale of rewards in the country, to stop the use of moral incentives for immoral purposes. Means of achievement. So this bill defines the subject matter of nomination, those who can offer people to the President for a reward. And it removes frank errors and adds, if any, to the public administration along with the council. The councils were all forgotten, here we added them. Most importantly, the authorities are obliged here to publish not only a reward decree, but a prize sheet and a biography awarded to the public, so that the media can understand who, for what, for what actions, for what merit. I think it'll just clean up the situation. I really hope that this half of the room is gonna be so hand-wrong, not like this. Because if so, it means that the new power will do what was done before it, trading public rewards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, discussions. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Paul Sulkowski. Then Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u110	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. I think today we can support a project on the publicity of the prize. And on the other hand, what took place in 18 years of addiction, how unjustly several presidents, and Kuchma, and Yushchenka, are defined as winners and special merit to the people of Ukraine, who by their decrees have disgraced virtually Ukraine and conducted, I would say, a mockery like that in front of their nation and their native Ukrainian people. And look what you've come up with. That such agrarians as Melnik, the minister, were Karasik, had destroyed the village with their impractical policies. The villagers found themselves in dire straits. Ukraine’s food security was proved, and threats were put on the line. And these patriots outgrew "Heroys of Ukraine" in Yushchenka. Where “The heroes of Ukraine” were really deserved before, they today are ashamed to be heroes today and have joined them with such free politicians as have really led the people of Ukraine to a very difficult, difficult situation, especially the agricultural sector of Ukraine. And second, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I think that Victor Janukovic, President, will really be good in these matters, and never will the free people and businessmen have seen such a world get the hero of Ukraine – the highest prize of Ukraine! But that's the main thing. When mothers are many children who have given birth to 10 or more.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u111	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u112	Those who have been entitled for decades to receive this prize. The presidents didn't do it before. And today, mothers are asked to give them this reward. Today, ten children and more were raised. They're already here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u113	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u114	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. The issue of Ukraine’s national awards is not the first time in this room. And today we are again looking at a few bills, two bills that are mutually exclusive. One question concerns the expansion of the sphere and the order of the prize, another about transparency and the publicity of the prizes. In general, this is too complex a question for Ukraine among those nations of the world that have the greatest rewards and rewards and honors. If there were a decent pension, perhaps fewer people would be concerned about the need to assign a title, either deserved or national, as is the case in many matters. Because that's the main motive for the reward. At the same time, the large number of awards that have been given to all the presidents, and each new presidency begins with either trying to normalize these issues, and ends with a flood of rewards of the highest order before the end of the term. It seems to me that this is a difficult question, and it needs public discussion, whether we are making decisions once and for all in our country, whether these awards will be public, whether these awards will be transparent, or whether we will be expanding new titles again, introducing new order, and increasingly rewarding. We already have practically a percentage of the rewards in Ukraine, if we look around this room, there's no man who doesn't have any rewards. That's why we need to come around and talk about it with society -- and, in fact, solve it once and for all, even though I understand it sounds naive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u115	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the correctness of putting up a national MP, Mr. Sinchenk, because this is about the need for an understandable and socially acceptable procedure for the execution of State awards. As for the trailer, the national deputy Karpuk, I will say that I have no national reward from any of the presidents, and I am proud to say that I believe that politicians and statesmen should, at the end of their careers, celebrate how the state will evaluate them, then they will be rewarded. So I think we need to take the first step that national deputy Sanchenko took, but we need to think about it in terms of categories. Because it's not just a question that the government gave. It's not just a question of writing a biography. Obviously there must be a public discussion. Obviously, there must be a clear logic to categorization, as I said before. Well, if we have the symbol of wisdom, as defined by Yashchenk, is Leonid Chernewicki, because if we go out of the logic of reward, then, well, I find it difficult to understand why such an order - Jaroslav the Wise - is in this country at all. Or, for example, if we have the standard of a Ukrainian hero who's a young businessman who's been chemically dumping all of Ukraine here, and we have in the Cherkas region where I was born, they're already afraid to come to that factory in the Kaniv region, unless it's the standard that a businessman who earns money is rewarded. Well, "we," we say, because we are also power or opposition, all equally involved in making these decisions. So there has to be a clear logic that, let's say, this category of rewards applies, let's say, this kind of action, this category -- this kind of action. And, of course, it was an idea, and I, by the way, offered it to the President of the former, he made it happen in the first place, but this committee of the public, I understand, it didn't work in any way. So there must be an understandable category: the submission of a public authority, a public institution, and then the opportunity for every citizen to see, and who is the man who did it in this life, really, what was the reward? So I think that the Bill of Andrew Vilenovich Senchenka in the first reading should be supported, but really, with a serious, systemic one. Thorough work, and the public should say the word. And I would, in general, maybe for a period of time from politicians and statesmen, put up such a moratorium, which means, even though for a year, that we work for the people so that no civil servant and politician will be rewarded. May the common people be rewarded. We will continue to think about how we will act when we make this decision. So I offered to support it in my first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u117	Olga Bodnar's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u118	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues, I fully share your positive attitude towards the bill, which my colleague, Senchenko, is the author of. But I didn't hear any comments about my bill on your part. Yet, I have heard positive words from Mr. Tomenko and Mr. Sulkovsky regarding the fact that it is still worth assigning honorary titles to those who deserve them. I mean, I hope you've also realized that my bill is about people who are now 70, 80, maybe more years retired now, but they can't get that title just because they're retired. And it's those people who actually earned it by their work, by their hard work. I hope you're also going to support my bill as well as my project, my colleague of Saints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Bills completed. It is clear that we need to make decisions in order to bring about this process of mass distribution of icons called “State rewards”. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports both Olga Bodnar’s bill and the national deputy of Saintchenko’s, a second reading of the bill could be combined and published. Because it is not the reward process itself, but how it should be done, so that people know who and what they have been rewarded for. That is why I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes. [[about the order in which the honors are assigned]] Please vote. [[17:40:55]] For-164 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote about one minute, let's vote and then we'll figure it out. I'm voting on a proposal to adopt a bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes. [[on ensuring the publicity of the Ukrainian State Prize System]] [[Registration number 542]] Please vote. [[17:41:33]] For-147 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the proposal to re-read the draft laws. [[Registration number 3346.5142]] [[17:42:01]] For-153 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Dear National Deputies! We continue the evening session until 18 hours 15 minutes. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 27 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on the establishment of educational institutions with the participation of foreign natural and legal persons]] [[Registration number 2283]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Science and Education Kurilo Viktor Semenović. Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[17:42:59]] For 244 Decision taken. Please, Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u120	Honorary colleagues, according to a valid version of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, must be made in accordance with international agreements, which are binding on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the fact that such agreements have not been concluded at this time, it is impossible to create the listed higher educational institutions. Branches of foreign higher education institutions are now being established in Ukraine, but full - time higher education institutions are not available to prepare necessary specialists in Ukraine. The bill addresses this problem and will allow higher education institutions to be established in Ukraine with the participation of foreign natural and legal persons. Controlling their creation will be carried out by the central executive body in the field of education and science. The implementation of this law will not require additional costs from the state budget. Acceptance will create an enabling environment for Ukrainian citizens to obtain higher education in educational institutions based on the participation of foreign natural and legal persons, if any. Therefore, a request to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u121	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u122	The committee's decision is. The conclusions of the Legal Authority, the Expert Office, are positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u123	Please sit down, Catherine Timothy. Vitaly Semenovich was a smoker.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u124	Short?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u125	Yeah. Head of the Committee on Science and Education in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u126	In accordance with the Higher Education Act, the establishment of higher educational institutions in Ukraine, with the participation of foreign natural and legal persons, is carried out in accordance with international agreements. Consent to be given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine There are no such agreements today, they are not. That is why it is impossible to create such higher education institutions in Ukraine. In this regard, the bill proposes to simplify this procedure considerably and to ensure that the central authority of the executive branch in the field of education and science, the Ministry of Education and Science, is an enabling system. The Committee on Science and Education considered the bill and suggested that it be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u127	Colleagues, do you need to discuss a bill? Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Ivan Popescu, "Our Ukraine" faction, next will be George Carmazin. This is where the MPs come in. It's a simplified procedure. There's no party here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u128	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of Regions. Masterful colleagues! When the State does not have the appropriate financial and material capacity to provide higher education in the languages of national minorities, the adoption of such a bill allows for these moments to be implemented. Moreover, I wanted to remind you that there are two international agreements ratified by Ukraine that have not been discussed today: a framework convention for the protection of the rights of national minorities and a European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. And the first and second documents include the provision of education in the mother tongue, including in the upper tongue. But on the other hand, the issue is not settled in the relevant legislation. Therefore, the Party of Regions is in favour of adopting the Act on Amendments to the Relevant Article on Higher Education and asking for a vote in favour. [[on the provision of educational facilities for foreign natural and legal persons]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u129	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u130	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! What are we talking about? The language is very simple, the changes are very simple, but with extremely distant, I think, consequences. This is about making changes to article 27 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. I am no longer saying that if something is to be changed in the Higher Education Act, there is much to be changed in a complex way. But if we went there to change a little paragraph, let's see what's behind it. First. There are countless in Ukraine, since no one today will tell me how many branches of foreign higher education institutions. No one can tell why they teach as they teach, for these higher educational institutions are created by the permission of a specially authorized central authority in the field of education and science. They're the ones who allowed these facilities to function. I think they need to report to us this central organ, how many organs there are and how they function. This has now proved to be limited and decided that all in general would be created by a higher educational institution with the participation of foreign natural and legal persons with the permission of a special authorized body of executive authority in the field of education and science. I mean, the Ministry of Education to completely monopolize everything. To this day’s situation, the situation seems to be what the law says in line with the international covenants that the Supreme Council has agreed upon. The argument is that there are no such agreements. So make, your honor, such agreements so that we can protect both our organs and create either in the Russian Federation or in other states, please. In the meantime, all we have to do is create within us. I'm definitely against it! We can't do that. It's breaking up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u131	Thank you. People's deputy Kurpil is handing over the right to speak to Mikol Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u132	Dear colleagues! I, despite the fact that we have already worked actively and successfully today, have little time left, I would like to take this bill extremely responsible, seriously and not to rush or do anything, I would not say nonsense, but very serious and dangerous things for Ukraine. Today, we are the only ones who have begun to deal with the branch offices of Ukrainian universities. Because you know that we already have branch offices in rural, rural, and rural areas, there are branch offices of universities where there is no candidate for science, and there is no system of teaching. Similarly today, George Carmazin is absolutely right, no one can say that we are dealing with branch offices of foreign institutions, what are they teaching there? What are the teaching systems? What's there, what's the responsibility for that learning system going on there. It's actually a decision we're making now, if we vote it out, we're legalizing a foreign private business where, for example, there's going to be a bench, so let's say Fletcher or some other classic to tell the Ukrainians to the stupid ones, I'm saying in quotes, it means how to make millions. And then we're going to look for those professors all over the country with millions of our citizens. So I'm a firm opponent in this idea, so the Ministry of Education for today should give us complete information. And we're going to be allies of the Ministry of Education if we're going to put an order in today's system of higher education institutions in Ukraine, which are the most in the world. Then we will arrange for the branch offices and foreign branches in Ukraine, perhaps the largest in the world. And then we'll let something new happen. So I would like to ask you not to propose such initiatives, but rather a committee, along with the Ministry, would have had such a discussion, and we have listened to the Supreme Council as we reduce, organize and control the state of higher education institutions where young people learn. And I hope that there they will be taught to obey the laws, not how they are violated, as some international missionaries do today. So I propose to vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u133	Please, Catherine Samuel. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u134	Thank you very much. Mikolo Volodymyrovich, at the last college of the Ministry of Education and Science, which took place in Kharkiv, was looking at this question that you are now raising. As far as the law is concerned. I'm asking you very much, dear colleagues. A new edition of the Higher Education Act is being prepared. So we have to take it out of the way: some protests, some foreign institutions, like they're going to bring them to us for free, some people talk about the languages of national minorities. But this does not apply at all to this bill. This is a question that is settled by the current Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. We need to find out what's going on in our country, not build a city here. Therefore, respectable Volodymyr Mikhailovich and distinguished colleagues, today we have higher educational institutions than in Germany, France, Britain, the United States, and we are still creating conditions for someone to produce, produce, and produce, and suck and suck money in our people!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u135	Yes, Your Honor, the bill is closed. Committee proposal: accept as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office: “It can be adopted as a basis for a bill”. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 27 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (registration No. 2383, please specify. [[on the establishment of educational institutions with the participation of foreign natural and legal persons]] [[17:55:18]] For-21 The decision is not taken. With this amount of support, there is no need to put the proposal to re-read. So I'm announcing that the bill has been rejected. Dear colleagues, we should be considering a bill of introduction right now. I'm reminding you again that we've moved on for 15 minutes. Regarding amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Electricity”, registration number 4693. [[on the establishment of special tariffs on electricity - "green" tariffs]] At the same time, there is a letter with the signatures of the five factions with the proposal to postpone its consideration and not to consider it today in connection with the need to reconcile positions. So, dear colleagues, there is no need to vote when all the factions unanimously made such a proposal? [[B in m in s a l in]] Five? Excuse me, two factions called for a recess to be announced. I. Honorable colleagues, one minute, I've resumed the session for 15 minutes, so please, if you're willing to make a statement, three minutes, and we're still looking at the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u136	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, honourable deputies, Ukrainians! At 10:00 this morning, my younger sister was arrested in Lviv. She's a loved one to me, since our mother died when she was a child, and I actually raised her. She's been working in the tax administration for many years. In 2003, I had a situation where the tax authorities approached her and said if your brother didn't close his mouth, we'd put you in jail. During that period, I was the deputy head of the district council and led the opposition movement against the Kuchma regime. Ten o'clock in the morning, the people in the office came to her, and I haven't had any contact with her since then, and I don't have any information about what's going on there. On the Internet, I was informed that she was being accused of being bribed. And I have reliable information that no funds were found in her office during the search. No fingerprints were found. And this money they're talking about, like, thousands of dollars there, they found it in the public toilet next to the trash. And so I'm definitely saying, this is a repressive machine, coming up with a new battle against opposition. I want to speak to the authorities and Yanukovich personally. If you want to hit me, beat me. You want to plant me, plant me. Don't touch my family. You want to destroy my family, you want to intimidate us, but you're going to hit below. You can't do that. I demand that my sister, now under arrest, be released home to her two - year - old daughter, who is waiting for her at home. I'm asking Yanukovich to stop the power to stop political persecution, because you want to intimidate us -- talk to us, it'll be male. Don't beat up family members – it's wrong, it's immoral. I also urge the Head of the Supreme Council and the deputies of the pro-power coalition to stop and stop that repulsive machine that is going around Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u137	Yes, Your Honor, I think I'm going to request from the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Supreme Council of Ukraine provide comprehensive information on this subject, then it will be brought to your attention, if not directly, by faction leaders. What? The question is what the deputy asked, made a statement, we have to respond to any statement, we will respond to it. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 240 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on responsibility in the field of protection and use of nadr]] [[Registration number 2422]] Gennady Hennadiovich, we can put him to the vote for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u138	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! And honourable national MPs! The law was introduced in 2007, today in 2010, during this time in other legislative acts, what I proposed has already been regulated. So it fell away from necessity, just a very long deadline was the bill. So I'm asking you to take it off the table, so my first intellectual problem is not gone -- it's accounted for, and almost all the changes are made to existing legislation. But introduced by other people's deputies, it happened that their bills were passed first, so I'm asking you to support and withdraw the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this proposal, and I will put it to a vote on the removal of the bill, registration number 2422, to amend article 240 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on responsibility in the field of protection of use of nadr]] Please vote. [[18:01:13]] For 309 Decision taken. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 218 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the clarification of certain provisions regarding the subset of administrative offences in the field of trade and services]] Registration number 2503. Rapporteur - Ukrainian National Deputy Viktor Stepanovich Olijnik, co-rapporteur - head of the committee's subcommittee on legislative security and law enforcement activities, Shemczuk Viktor Viktorovich. The proposal to consider a bill with a reduced procedure, put it to a vote, please support. [[18:02:04]] For 262 Please have your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u140	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law of Ukraine amending article 218 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the clarification of certain provisions regarding the subjectivity of administrative offences in the field of trade and services. The bill provides for amendments to article 218 of the Code of Administrative Offences. In particular, add the first part after the figure 154 to the words and digits: “Articles 155, 155-2, part two of Article 156, articles 156-1, 156-2”. In part two, replace “156” with “155-2, part two of Article 156, articles 156-1, 156-2”. The amendments are proposed: to address the issue of granting administrative commissions to city council executives to deal with administrative offences provided for in article 155 of the Code of Administrative Offences is a breach in the area of trade. According to the protocols made by officials authorized by the executive boards of the city councils, as well as the right of administrations to deal with the issue of administrative violations provided for in article 156, articles 156-1, 156-2. The changes are due to the fact that the current edition of article 218 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences confers exclusive rights on administrative commissions, with executive bodies of rural, rural, council, to deal with administrative offences provided for in article 155. However, the same article does not provide for administrative commissions to deal with administrative offences provided for in article 155 of the City Council’s executive boards. That's how nonsense occurs. Administrative procedures can be made up of authorized persons, and administrations cannot, in principle, be considered. And that's why the bill is about that. At the same time, article 255, paragraph 2
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u141	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u142	On administrative offences against persons entitled to make protocols on administrative offences provided for in article 155, officials authorized by executive committees of rural, rural, city councils have been appointed. A similar problem arises when applying the standards of part two of article 156, article 155. 2, 156.2 The Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences provides that the right to draw up administrative procedures for offences in accordance with the above-mentioned articles shall be subject to the authorization of the officers of the executive committees of rural, rural, city councils and to reports of violations provided for in article 156. 1 shall have the right to appoint authorized officials of internal affairs bodies. At the same time, the records of violations made by the individuals in question do not have the right to consider any of the bodies set out in Articles 218 to 221. There's a problem. That even the violations involved, especially the liquor trade, especially the famous article that. We can't sell admin protocols until we're 18 years old. The administration can't look at it. Thus, these changes are proposed to settle the issue. The adoption of the bill does not require additional material or financial costs from the State budget. I propose to adopt this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u143	Thank you. Valerius Behves from the committee, please. Committee opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report on the fact that the Committee on Legislative Security has considered this bill at its meeting and recommended that the Supreme Council consider it in the Supreme Council session hall. Now, I want to confirm that this bill corresponds to the authorization of the administrative commissions and the local councils and their executions. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u145	Your Honor, is there no objection to putting this bill to the vote? None. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 218 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the clarification of certain provisions regarding the subset of administrative offences in the field of trade and services]] [[18:07:10]] For 343 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. There's a denial, so let's not take it. Dear colleagues, the next draft of the Act is very clear about amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on mandatory treatment for alcoholism, drug addiction or toxicomania]] Registration number 3383. Yuri Prokopchuk, please. And then let's figure out what to do. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. No objections? Well, then I'll put this proposal to the vote so that we can implement it. Please vote. [[18:08:06]] For 263 Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u146	Dear colleagues! Bill number 3383 of the Swedish National MP is proposed. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has before it a bill amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on mandatory treatment for alcoholism, drug addiction or toxicomania]] On the basis of the need to adopt this act, I would like to point out the following. Alcohol abuse has an adverse effect not only on human health but also on the criminogenic situation. State statistics on alcohol abuse, drug abuse, or drug abuse are evidenced by public organizations. Yes, according to the U.S. Think about the number. Most of the time, up to 80 percent of accidents occur with people who abuse alcohol. The increase in the crime of violence and corruption of drug and narcotics, the illicit circulation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic and toxic substances. Ukraine’s laws on health, namely, the basis of Ukrainian legislation on health protection, Ukrainian legislation on psychiatric care, measures against illicit drug trafficking, psychotropic substances. and abuse of alcohol in their positions do not contain legal rules to prevent the spread of alcoholism, drug abuse and toxicomania, which make it difficult to apply their standards in practice. The bill proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Chapter 4a, namely, the use of compulsory treatment against alcoholism, drug addiction, or toxicomania, which states that such compulsory treatment is prescribed by the court irrespective of the prescribed punishment for those who abuse alcohol, drugs, or psychotropic substances.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u147	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u148	and three times in one year have committed any of the offences envisaged in a particular part of this code and the prescribed procedure for the court to apply mandatory treatment. In addition, the bill proposes to supplement chapter 5 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences with a new chapter, which sets out the procedure for the execution of the court’s decision on the obligation to undergo treatment for alcoholism, drug abuse, or toxicomania, and determines the duration of such treatment. The adoption of a bill as a Ukrainian law will contribute to the creation of an adequate legal framework in the field of prevention of alcoholism, drug addiction and toxicomy in Ukraine, contribute to the improvement of human rights protection in Ukraine, a more effective warning of domestic violence, a qualitative response of internal affairs to this type of crime. Please support this bill. The committee proposed in the first reading and on a basis. What I'm saying is that it has nothing to do with compulsory treatment, which is behind bars, there, and so on, this bill has nothing to do with it. But once again, I want to focus your attention on the number that was reported: more than 60 serious cases, that is, criminal cases, where there are murders, and so on, precisely created by those who were in a state of drunkenness, were in a state of drug and toxic drinking. That's why both the committee and I think our civil and parliamentary position should also be absolutely positive about this. Please adopt the law in the first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-05-18-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, no objection to this offer? I'm betting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences, registration number 3383. [[on mandatory treatment for alcoholism, drug addiction or toxicomania]] [[18:12:52]] For-92 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for a second proposal, it's in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, to refer to the re-reading of the bill. [[18:13:19]] For 139 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work since 10:00 a.m.
