ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:10]] There were 426 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague Zaz Aleksandra Viktorovich. Please welcome him and wish him success in his personal life and in his parliamentary activities. [[Applause]] I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on September 7th. 13 issues of the agenda have been considered, as a result of their consideration: 2 laws and 2 decrees have been passed, 6 bills adopted on the basis, 6 bills and 3 draft regulations have been rejected. Now for your opinion, I propose an ad. As of 6 September 2010, I will report on the change of the name of the deputy faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko” to “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko – Fatherland” according to the minutes of the parliamentary faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko”. The short title is the deputy faction "BUT – Parenthood". Another announcement. According to the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko” of 6 September 2010, and in accordance with paragraph three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I report that the people's deputies of Ukraine have been expelled: Mr. Bogdan Volodymirovich, Mr. Denkovic Ivan Vasilovich, Radovec Arnold Anatoliyovich, from the deputy faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko”. On the basis of article 59, paragraph 4, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I inform that Ukrainian national deputies Hubsky Bogdan Volodymyrovich, Denkovic Ivan Vasilovich, Radovec Arnold Anatoliyovich are non-fractional. Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes away from speaking to the national deputies with proposals, announcements, and messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikola Komar, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions. Fomin will be next. Fomin's handing over the can, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u2	Thank you. Respectable national MPs, respected compatriots, have the fundamental importance of international State authority, trust and mutual commitment in terms of increasing competition in European and world markets. In recent years, Ukraine has lost much of the confidence of international partners, primarily because of the shameful opposition seen between the authorities, primarily the presidential and governmental verticals. And in international space, both economic and political, the results are achieved only when the State consolidates political will, intellectuals, resources, regardless of their internal situation, and modern methods protect and promote its national economic and political interests. This certainly had a negative impact on all components, starting with the external circulation of Ukraine, on the volume of foreign direct investment. I'm not going to overburden myself with numbers, but in 19 years of independence, the amount of foreign direct investment in Ukraine was only about $40 billion. This is less for comparison than in Uzbekistan. As a result, one of the most fundamental directions of the nation's strategic development is the restoration of our international authority, the trust of our partners, and the substantial increase in the policy of promoting our interests in the European world economic space, all the more so that in the structure of gross domestic product, exports account for up to 50 percent. As a result, recent international visits by the President of Ukraine, the Government of Germany, the Russian Federation, the United States, Kazakhstan, the People's Republic of China, organized with a very active involvement of Ukrainian business, industrialists, entrepreneurs, investors, are the most plausible ingredient. We're building up experience, we're shaping modern export policies, we're shaping the conditions of a modern state-private partnership to bring together efforts where it comes from the principles of interest. And it must be Ukraine's irreversible strategy to take a decent place in world space. Only the consolidation of political will, modern diplomacy, a competitive economy with a constant presence of economic patriotism will make it possible to achieve high results. And we urge the Parliament to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u3	Allow me to finish the speech. Oleg Lazko, “BUT – Fatherland” faction. Gerasimczuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u4	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, “BUT – Fatherland” faction. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, the opposition faction of "BUT-Batychina" insists on a first-hand review of the Ukrainian Parliament's legislation aimed at protecting you. Today, according to the Supreme Council Regulations Act, the day of opposition. The daily routine that was formed by the Supreme Council apparatus formally meets the requirements of the law. Bills were put in place by members of the opposition. But the subject of these bills is not at all what we demand. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, we insist on a preliminary review of the bill, a draft decision by Serbian author No.7102 on the introduction of a moratorium on gas prices. We also insist on a first-hand review today of a bill to establish a moratorium on the rise of retirement age, a bill to hold tax holidays for small businesses, and a bill to ensure Ukraine's energy security. We demand that these bills be considered in the first place. Today, we believe that there are no more pressing issues in the country which is facing the power of the so-called so-called economic reforms, at the expense of millions of Ukrainian citizens, that require the faction of the "Timoshenko-Paternity Yulia", together with the faction "Our Ukraine". So we're going to go over these issues as soon as they're done. Because when we talk about authorities building a new country, we have to realize that this country is being built for oligarch units at the expense of millions of citizens. We, as an opposition, believe that the laws that protect people and then all other laws should be dealt with first in Parliament. We hope that the parliamentary majority will not object to the adoption of these laws, or we will use all measures to defend the rights of citizens. When opposition is said to be weak, we will demonstrate our strength to both the country and the parliamentary majority. Stop sitting on people's heads, stop sitting on the heads of the opposition! The opposition is strong and we will prove that we are capable of defending the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u5	National MP Gerasimchuk. Who Transfers Rights? Who will act?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u6	Vladimir Gerasimchuk, Block of Lithuania. Dear Mr. Head! Please give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u7	Oleg Zarubinski, next will be Gregory Kaletnik instead of Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u8	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, I have deliberately taken the floor. The second issue today is that it's kind of a good bill that deals with changes in the question of marking or not marking genetically modified organisms, more specifically food products with them. I want to focus now on this bill so that those who didn't get into it think about what we're going to do so that it's time to think about it. So it's suggested that the law that we passed with you, which obliges the food manufacturer to mark whether they have GMOs, genetically modified organisms, or not, to cancel, nillate and return to a sufficiently subtle formula that has existed before, but has never been implemented. What you should do is mark only the product where the GMO is after a certain percentage of the product. So I want to give you an argument so that we can think about what to do with it. Ukraine has already had the experience of marking products with more than 0.9 percent GMO content proposed in this bill. But it was, by the way, in the Consumer Rights Act. But let's ask if the law that we passed on at least one package has ever indicated that there is a GMO content, although there is one package that makes transnational corporations with scandals in the world, producing children's food products, where GMO content is tens of percent. There was no such standard, and there was no marking. The next moment. Such markings are difficult to meet today, but today the marking system works in any way, working as a broken light, where there is green light. These are products without GMOs and we see these products, and we always want to buy them faster than they're going to say there are genetically modified organisms. But they don't have red light on GMO products. What do the drafters want? Only to record products with more than 0.9 references to European standards. So here, Your Honor, then I ask you to refer at all to American and Canadian standards, in which there is absolutely no need to mark anything, but then we will all be at peace to fight obesity and those diseases that are in the United States today. We may be oriented towards Japan and Switzerland, which has completely banned GMOs from the internal market, but helps other countries to develop such technologies. Why don't you take a better look at them? I think that that consideration of the issues that we're going to have and put in the agenda is going to take place not in the short run, this question is about millions and millions of children, it's about the next generation, it's about the health of the next generation, and it's not about the transnational "breaths" that have to run around the deputies and try to lobby for their interests, and they're 20 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u9	Gregory Kaletnik, a faction of the Party of Regions, will be followed by Alexander Stoyan, who will have six minutes to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, Ukrainian citizens! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee is constantly analysing the effectiveness of the State's agricultural sector in the legislative sector. They are not left out of the attention of the committee and the current issues and challenges in the food market. The difficult weather conditions of spring and especially summer heat have had a negative impact on agricultural production. But I want to pay attention to everyone that this is just about the quantities that were going to get much larger, in line with the work that was being put in place and the foundation that was being laid. But the question is not at all that the collected and obtained results of agricultural production are dangerous to the nation’s food security. Borrow yourself, to provide bread, bread, pasta, and flour, the state needs 5.5 million tons. We've produced 17.5 million tons of wheat, 10 million of which are food. We have a sufficient number of crops. In need of 200 thousand tons, 500 thousand tons are collected. The need for Greece is 90,000 tons, and 550 tons have already been collected. The oil demand is 550 thousand tons, and more than 2.5 million tons are expected to be produced. Also, sugar supply is optimistic today: at least 2 million tons are expected to be produced if needed. In view of this, the government has made every effort by President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine to purchase the necessary quantities of agricultural produce for both bread and milk production. Not to take advantage of these conditions within the nations that were created could only be lazy or unresponsible leaders and structures. There's now the export of grains outside the country, because it needs funding for autumn-polish work in the agrarian complex of Ukraine. Monitoring the movement of grain will be carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers, and in a situation that will move closer to the limit of uninterrupted stocks, the Cabinet of Ministers will be able to quickly take the necessary measures to provide food for its own people. It would be desirable for the Ministry of Finance to find an opportunity to allocate billions of additional funds to the agrarian fund for purchase, although a billion of them have already been found and allocated under difficult financial conditions in Ukraine. The Ministry of Economics wants to forecast ahead, year and year.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u12	And then the Ministry of Agrarian Politics could plan and prove the volume of production in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u13	Alexander Stoyan has the right to perform, six minutes, and his colleague, Evening, also gives him his right to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national deputies! In recent times, from this rostrum on the right hand side, we hear those who have been in power for five years and have led to the critical condition of Ukraine, to the poverty of most of the Ukrainian people, have become advocates of the interests of the common people. I would like to remind you that only in 2006, when Victor Fedorovich Janukovic was Prime Minister, the economy began to grow, wages, pensions and much more began to rise. And they didn't like it. And that's why they provoked the next election, took the power into their own hands. They had the majority, their President Yushchenko, their Prime Minister Timoshenko, their majority in Parliament, but did nothing for the benefit of the people. Let me give you a couple of examples. In October 2009, the minimum pension was 498. And our political force, the Party of Regions, had to block this rostrum for six months in order to raise the minimum pension to 535 dollars. And we did it. Despite this, the government of Tymoshenko did not then comply with the law. And only after our political power came into power did we make not only 533 bracelets but we made a difference. Now I want to say that from December 1st, the minimum pension became 709 dollars, which is 211 dollars. I'm paying attention to pensioners, the minimum pension has increased by 211 dollars, regardless of the economic crisis. The next moment. For the first time in years of independence, the minimum wage has become 100 percent equivalent to the minimum wage for a working person. And if it was 744 bracelets in December 2009, it became 922 bracelets in December 2010. 178 plus is also social protection. Third moment. The group of regions that came to power fulfilled their commitment to our mothers. We said 25 grand for the second child and 50 grand for the third child. We do that, too. But what is the problem with opposition? For now, you see, we've raised tariffs on gas and residential services. So what I'm saying is that all Ukrainian citizens know, and the opposition knows that we're doing what we have to do with the memorandum that Julia Timoshenko signed with the International Monetary Fund. And this memo stated that the government of Tymoshenko was obliged to increase housing tariffs. And one of the leaders here recently said to the Conciliation Council: we signed it because we had to take another tranche. And they didn't mean to do it. How, then, can a state’s obligation not be fulfilled? So today, the Party of Regions, the government, is obliged to do what Timoshenko signed. We have to really take this money from the International Monetary Fund in order to raise production. And all that's being done today is unfortunately both raising tariffs and other measures to make sure that these costs are being put into production. But I want to reassure Ukrainian citizens and remind them that we have, literally on August 30, passed a very important law that protects our citizens socially. This law provides for a reduction in the total revenue paid for by tariffs and utilities from 15 to 10 percent. It's for families of pensioners. And from 20 to 15 percent for people who work. So everything else is compensated by the state. Moreover, a simplified grant mechanism is envisaged. They say, "Look, you said you took the gas 100 dollars cheaper and you raised the tariffs." So what I'm saying is that it's the $100 that our state has taken that will contribute because this money is going to go to grants to defenseless citizens. So no family that will really pay more will suffer; it will be protected. Undeniably, fellow believers! I want to say one more moment. In fact, we don't like everything about our government, I'll be honest with you. Just the other day at the meeting of the Polish Prime Minister of the Ukraine of Azarov, we asked many questions to our prime minister regarding social protection. I also want to remind you that on September 30 of this rostrum from the faction, I have criticised the government's framework law for protecting citizens' savings. This law was not bad, but it was a framework, and it did not solve all problems. But let me ask you a question: How about once when Julia Timoshenko was passing laws, even though the people who were with her were criticizing her or making remarks? It was stupid to vote in favour of these laws. We boldly, we boldly criticize our government, we make remarks that we don't like everything in the Tax Code, and we told Azarov about it, but we tell people honestly and fairly. And for the last six months, we've been in power, you can't do anything in six months, but step by step we're doing to protect people to make production work. The message is unity, we don't hear Timoshenko say: he's a smuggler – Yushchenko, Yushchenko says she's a thief, it went to history, today's team: President, Parliament, government, Supreme Council. And we will do our utmost to fulfill our obligations. We understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u16	That we're going to the local self-government and we know where to go, we're not afraid to go with people with the truth and do all that. I don't know what we promised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u17	Mikhailo Chechetov, factions of the Party of the Regions. Zeno’s Skutak will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, after yesterday's meeting of the Supreme Council in the media, there has been some misinformation that we allegedly decided yesterday to eliminate the district councils in Kiev. The Supreme Council has not made such a decision, I speak publicly again. Yesterday, we adopted a democratic decision on the equalization of rights, in respect of the rights of all city councils in Ukraine, the rights to education and the elimination of district councils in cities. Part of the district council. Some of the city councils took advantage of this – Gorsov Zaporozhya, Lviv took this decision 15 years ago, Harkov this year, a part of the cities, is entitled, but it is not realized, in that the district councils remain in Donetsk. That's why we're equal in rights. Well, we can't have a normal democratic country if there are some rights in one city and there are other rights in another city, and given the specificity of the political subtext: in Lviv, some rights, in Kiev, others. It can't be like that. We must build one democratic Ukraine, one when the rights are the same on all city councils. Furthermore, we do not know whether, after 10 years, the Kiev Council may take advantage of that right, perhaps not at all, but the decision was indeed democratic: on the equalization in the rights of all city councils located in the country. And the second question is: yesterday, again, we have demonstrated that power has demonstrated how to deal with the development of systematic, fundamental laws concerning society as a whole, I am talking about the Tax Code. We are conducting a decision on its adoption, development and preparation in two sessions. Several iterations, considered in the Cabinet of Ministers, took place throughout the summer for detailed discussions in various regions, meetings with entrepreneurs and businessmen. Yesterday, there was some balance of interest in the drafting of the bill. There will also be ethers for consultation with business, with the real economy and a finalized version will be introduced to the Supreme Council of the Tax Code, where the main balance will be maintained, where, on the one hand, the law will be given the opportunity to fill the public Treasury and, on the other hand, it will pave the way for business prospects and the real economy. I therefore call for further constructive and left-hand parts of the hall, and the right-hand side of the hall constructively.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u20	I also, therefore, call on both the left and right parts of the room to work constructively, to work constructively on draft laws that are fateful for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u21	Zinovo Shkutjak, “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense” faction. After Zinovi Skutka will perform Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u22	I hereby announce my address to the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovič, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Litvin, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikli Azarov, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Alexander Medvedjk, and the People's Deputies. We, members of the Ivano-Frankov District Council, once again call the attention of authorities and societies to unacceptable actions and statements by the Minister of Education of Ukraine, Dmitri Tobacco, and demand the immediate resignation of a person who is openly hostile to the Ukrainian nation and who has no moral right to govern Ukrainian schooling. The fact that the Cabinet of Ministers does not react to repeated appeals and statements by both MPs and the public, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot vote in favour of the resignation of the Ukrainian Minister of Foreign Affairs only adds to his insolence. As a wolf in sheep's skin behaves Dmitry Tobacco in the educational field, copying history textbooks, minimizing the significance of historical events and actors of past eras, restoring the Stalinary and Coastal stereotypes that he is trying to reintroduce to our children and young people, the inferiority and Janicism complexes. His initiative did not make it necessary to promote education in the native language, nor did he pass an exam from a Ukrainian scholar. At the regional level, the number of lessons, schools, and classrooms in the Ukrainian language have been reduced, and Russian language classes have returned to higher education institutions. A list of similar innovations, including the disrespect of the Ukrainian nation, can be continued. The minister’s impunity encourages him to do new things that cannot be called anti - Ukrainian. The peak of cynicism was the minister’s next revelation on Knowledge Day. It was September 1st that Tobacco reported in the newspaper “Arguments and Facts in Ukraine” that the recognition of the Holocaust as a genocide of the Ukrainian people is a fiction of foreign historians. There were, I said, separate hunger strikes in the 32-33s and 46-47s, such as the political destruction of agriculture as a social divide. It is presumptuous to claim this woeful minister, who is long overdue to stop and hold criminally responsible for repeatedly violating article 2 of the Hullodomor Act of 32-33 years in Ukraine, where the public denial of Holodomor is recognized as a violation of the memory of millions of victims and the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people. In fact, the holder of tobacco is not only ignoring but deliberately violating the law by unlawfully covering crimes and justifying criminals who have destroyed our nation, our ethnics in the most horrendous way -- hunger, which is not genocide for the Tobacco. We need to reconsider the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decision to remove Tobacco from the post of Minister of Education. We're tasking the people's deputies of Ivano-Frankish to make public.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u23	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u25	Lila Grigorovitch is referring to Jaroslav Kendzior, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u26	Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! In these parliamentary holidays this year, I had to go to Karelia, visit Belomore Canal, Sandarmokh, and the capital of Gulagu Solovak. Having visited these places of mass destruction of Ukrainians and the best of us, there you especially feel and receive an answer to the question of why today's Ukrainian authority is headed by the President of Ukraine, who denies the Holocaust as a genocide of the Ukrainian people, there you receive a very sharp answer to the activities of the Minister of Education and Science of Comrade Tobacco. Because the entire world of the Ukrainian nation was destroyed there, only north of Petrozadska, in Karelia, were more than 200 camps of death in the gulag system. In the Soviet Union, here is a map of the deployment of GULAG objects, more than 400,000 sites of destruction of various peoples, and these were mainly Ukrainians. So to appreciate our independence, the 19th anniversary that we celebrated, this year, of course, we need to understand how priced our national independence is. And in order for Ukrainian citizens to forget the price of Ukrainian statehood, Ukrainian independence, the millions and millions, the tens of millions of casualties that Stalin has left behind, as it were, for the construction of socialism, the father of all nations, the most angry cat of all time and the peoples of Stalin with his communist pack. Thus, this must be forgotten, and so the history of Ukraine is copied, the history of history is rewritten, and the history of the past five years has begun to pave the way for people’s consciousness. But what worries me most is that only in Sandarmokh is the more or less orderly place of destruction of almost 700 Ukrainians, of all Ukrainian intelligence and creative and literary and artistic. But for the other four thousand Ukrainians, there are no signs that Ukrainians were destroyed here. And that's why I'm not talking to today's government, today's government and the president, because they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u27	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u28	I'm calling on all the patriotic national parties to keep their celebrations of Independence Day from being held on the Crusades, on the Maidan of Independence, to go to Vorkuta, to Norilsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u29	Thank you. Andrew Pavlovsky instead of Michael Kosiv. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u30	Respectable compatriots! Andry Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko – “The Fatherland”. Dear compatriots, you and I are witnessing a broad campaign every day on the fundamental social rights of ordinary people, hired workers, budget workers, pensioners, disabled people, students. We can see that life is getting worse today. In fact, frozen salaries are not paid to budgeters, and they are not paid 300 dollars each. It is planned to increase the retirement age by five years. Gas prices, residential services, bread prices are rising. In the state there continues to be such a disgraceful phenomenon as debt on wages, and it is the largest in Donetsk, Lugansk, Kharkiv region. And at the same time, even though the problem of the debt of wages has not been solved, the government is enacting a law to the Supreme Council that effectively abolishes the moratorium on the retirement of citizens from pennies for the early payment of housing services. So this law was adopted on the condition that it was a temporary withdrawal ban that worked until the problem of paying off wages was resolved. So that's how the state blamed the citizens' salary, and the foam will be torn down by three skins for the fact that the person, because he doesn't have a salary, pays in time for housing services. At the same time, there's a conclusion by the lawyers that this, along with the Civil Code of Today's Editorial, will lead to the fact that the housing of citizens and those who have debts for municipal services will simply be thrown into the street, and a large army of our homeless debtors will be added to the unemployment army. Therefore, opposition requires that we now ask the first questions and the first questions. The first questions today are the issue of the Supreme Council regulation on a moratorium on gas price increases and housing services. And the opposition is asking for the support of all the other deputies, remembering that, unfortunately, they now have the opportunity to live well only with rich populations, and the poor are getting worse and worse every day. So let's support the most underprivileged, the most vulnerable of our citizens and consider a moratorium on the price of gas and residential services. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speeches of the national MPs have been completed. With regard to the proposals made in applications, reports, information from Ukrainian national deputies, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate letters, letters, and petitions. Regarding the proposals made by Oleg Lazko from the “BUT-“Fatherhood” faction. May I have your attention, my fellow Members, they were about to consider the issue first, this is a bill establishing a moratorium on increasing the retirement age for women. The bill was registered at the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 7, and was considered on the committee on September 8. The next bill, which is also proposed to be considered first today, is a draft of the Small Business Tax Holidays Act. This is a project of the Royal People's Deputy. He was also registered on September 7, and the committee only examined him yesterday. As well as a project on energy security for Ukraine. He was also registered on September 7th, and the committee did not review him. Why were these bills put last in line? This involves that if the committees consider them, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will also be able to discuss them. Thus, two of the proposed issues were dealt with by committees. With the agreement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am now, your honor's colleagues, suggesting that we may consider them first. It's also about a draft decision that was registered, which is called late last night by Yuri Serbin. [[Registration number 7102]] The committee did not consider this decision. There is a requirement for a corresponding fraction. I'm going to put all these proposals to the vote, if they get the support, we're going to look at them, no, I'm sure we're guaranteed today to consider all the issues that are scheduled for Wednesday. Is that what this is about? One minute at a time. From this point of view, please, Mikhail Chechtov. Then Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I fully agree with your last point: that we will consider all the bills today. But we started our work constructively. And the first drafts will really find support in the hall. Let's secure the construct. Bills are proposed that will not be voted on just to break the hall, to make noise in the hall. It is therefore suggested that, you are absolutely right, we will all consider it, but let us consider the issues in the order of the day, because the first issues, they are constructive, they will find support in the hall. Next thing you know, let the political ones go, if anyone wants to pry, let them pry, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u33	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Please listen carefully. The way our opponents stood up for their time: without consideration on the committee, without the first, second reading, without any procedures, for six months, they blocked the rostrum until they finally got the appropriate number of votes, voted on the law, doubled social standards and were successfully buried today. By not raising social standards, people are now being strangled at terrible prices. So let's at least stop this prank! That is why we, our opposition deputies, today’s order of the day formed, have refused to report on our bills. They are not as relevant as the ones we offered in the presentation today. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is our right today and we urge you to take a firm look at those bills that you just announced. And they were registered long before what you called the committees were considered. The next session was also open to committees or committees at the same time as the next meeting. Vladimir Mikhailovich, when the Supreme Council is always right, such things can be decided. We insist again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u35	The offer is understood. Is there anyone else who insists on other factions? I can't see. Dear colleagues! I'm here to support the proposal and Mikhail Vasilovich Chechotov and Ivan Grigorovovich to keep us constructive in our work. I will put a proposal to the vote to raise the above and to consider first the draft laws that have appropriate committee decisions, and for those bills that do not have committee decisions, I will put them to the vote without committee decisions, because it is also not possible to work “from the wheel”, although we often make exceptions. [[Accuracy accepted]] If the proposal is not supported, then I have, I have, there will be another proposal – to consider calmly the reduced procedure in order to pass all the bills. But let's do it this way if the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the first drafts you've proposed. If there is no positive decision on these bills, so as not to block the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I understand what this is about. Let's make sure that everything is democratic. As much as you can say by the reduced procedure, in full, we will discuss these issues. Is there no objection? I beg you again, please, please. We're looking for compromise, why are you yelling? So this is what I'm proposing right now. I'll put it to a vote, please note that we are now starting our practical work with a view to considering the draft Act on the Establishment of a Moratorium on the Retirement Age for Women. [[Registration number 7039, 7039-D]] Is there no objection? I have to put in alternatives. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[10:44:26]] For 199 The offer is not accepted. I'll bet you a vote. The factions. Region Party – 0, “BUT – Fatherland” – 121, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 51, Communists – 26, “Block of Lithuania” – 1, “non-fractional” – 0. Dear colleagues, I am now putting to the vote a proposal to now consider the draft Tax Holidays Act for Small Business. [[Registration number 7037]] Please vote. [[10:45:17]] For-173 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party – 0; “BUT – Fatherland” – 122; “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 51; Communists, “Block of Lithuania” and “Zoff, Iraq – 0. In principle, respected colleagues, these questions will be found in the Tax Code. By the way, I'm informing you that yesterday's draft of the Tax Code was registered under the authorship of Mikolia Catherinechuk and Sergio Teryochina. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, one minute, wait. What determination? [[B in m in s a l in]] To what law? Next question. I am submitting a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider now the draft Energy Security Act of Ukraine without a committee decision. [[Registration number 7080]] Please vote. [[10:46:38]] For 178. The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 122, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 55, Communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 1, non-fractional – 0.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u36	I understand everything. I am now putting to the vote the proposal that I now consider the Supreme Council without the Committee's decision a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on certain measures to ensure the proper functioning of Ukrainian housing and utilities (registration No. 7102). As I was reminding you, the author is Yuri Serbin. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is the one, this document. [[10:47:38]] For 171 There's no such thing in the Rules. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 123, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 48, Communists, "Block of Lithuania", non-fractional – 0. Now there's another offer. Here's another one. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be held until all the issues contained in this schedule are finalized. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. No, in short, we have to vote for each individual. So I propose that we now vote to work in the morning session before the finalization of the issues contained in this agenda. Can I have a vote? What should I do? I'll give it to you. That's what the lady's motive is now. Oleg Valeriyovich, well, what are you accusing me of wanting to organize a job, to consider the questions you're proposing? [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:48:38]] For 232 From the factions, please. From the factions, please, about our further work. Oleg Lazko, then Valentin Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u37	Oleg Lazko, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, according to those bills that you shyly refuse to name the names of the bills so that people don't know what we're voting for, it's actually about the fact that the majority of the government just didn't vote and refused to consider the next bills: the establishment of a moratorium on gas prices, the establishment of a moratorium on higher retirement age, the establishment of tax holidays, the establishment of a moratorium on higher rates in residential households. What bills did the coalition refuse to vote for? And the public has a right to know. And that's why our faction insists on considering these bills, because we think that these are the most pressing problems that people are concerned about today. And the Ukrainian Parliament has no moral right, no legal right, and, finally, before God, you have no right to consider any other laws than those that have been sent here by people to see them. Protect the people first, then tear the earth apart.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand your emotions, but I would ask your honorary colleague, Oleg Lalashka, not to blame me for not calling the bill. I call the bill number and the bill title and the bill's author. And I'm not going to transfer the contents of the bill. Valentina Matviev, then Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u39	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. As you've seen, your fellow Communist faction has supported the proposal to consider a very important bill, in our view, establishing a moratorium on rising the retirement age for women. This is really our position, and we're going to speak out and we're going to speak for this very serious problem to be made and made positive. Sadly, though, there was no positive support for this proposal in the hall today. So, dear fellows, I'm looking at how you're kind of going to block the rostrum, and it makes this impression, and it's probably not just me that's important to you, but it's the important thing about this bill. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u40	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, let's take it easy. Indeed, today the agenda is fully established by the opposition. And here's the question of small business tax vacations, energy security also stands a moratorium on higher retirement age. And on the proposal of Vladimir Mihailovich, we supported that we would not leave the hall until we considered all the bills. We will consider, we have voted in favour. Let's go day by day, that's all there is. It's all right, there's a day's work, it's been approved. And once again, the bill came in. And we voted for not leaving the hall until we considered them. That's why we don't understand, or you don't understand. Who took you to the rostrum? It feels like you don't understand what you're doing. Let's see, they're on the agenda. You appreciate the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u42	Yes, who else is going to speak from the faction? The faction has already appeared. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, dear fellows, what am I going to collect? Let me get two factions, a call, and I'll get the Conciliation Council together.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u43	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, let's not overwhelm each other. Since we have agreed and found a compromise that all the bills, including those on which the Faction “BUIT – Fatherland” is insisting, will be considered today, let us quickly consider all these issues. That's me. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's not how the Supreme Council supported it! [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, if they don't work now, then we'll take a break. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] So what are you offering me? That is how we deal with the issue of opposition! [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what I'm suggesting. I suggest. What can I do? I'm proposing. And he was trying to compromise. If so, we will work until we consider these too. They weren't ready! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, let's talk again. Alexander Efraemov, please. Then who? Then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! I would like to understand for myself what is going on, because there are many decibels and no constructive ones in the opposition. If you don't want to work on the day that you're setting up the agenda, say so. If there's any requests for a coalition, you'll say them, too. But to do what you've come up with, nobody knows anything about it, and everyone has to dance to it, but it won't be because every deputy is a person, and he makes his own decision in the room. Neither the Speaker of Parliament nor the leader of the faction will force the MP to vote for not wanting to vote. So either you say what you want or answer the question that you do. or state that you do not wish to work on the day you form the agenda. You're in no condition. Frg_02414*001*027&lt;10:55: 33&gt; To form an agenda to bring together the conference room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u46	Yuri. George Carmazin, then John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u47	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, today is the day of opposition, according to the Rules. And the opposition itself determines which projects to consider. Thus, the list is also presented by the people’s deputies from the opposition that is now being proposed for consideration. But you know that this early morning is forming and the early morning is forming. But life brought new adjustments. And now we ask that we first consider the Act on the Establishment of a Moratorium on the Retirement of Women's Age, and we now ask for tax breaks for small businesses and the Bill of Sergio Soboljeva, which speaks of establishing a moratorium on gas, on gas, on anti-corruption schemes in the area of natural gas functioning, these are the necessary bills, and a moratorium on gas prices. [[7037]] [[7080]] These are four bills first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u48	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u49	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, we have heard the call for coalition leadership. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you. We've heard the call of coalition leadership, the coalition wants to hear what we want. So once again, we speak with clarity on behalf of millions of people today who are addressing everyone, we are all authorities, we are asking: look at the current issues. Today is the day of opposition, our right to form the order of the day and the order of consideration, and the terms of consideration, and the priority of consideration. So we don't require anything. We ask the coalition to consider it. And the speaker of Parliament to consider the issue in turn: a moratorium on increasing gas prices, utility services, a moratorium on increasing the retirement age for our women, supporting small and medium-sized businesses, are millions of people who are making themselves a piece of bread today. We would like to consider these questions today, which are in order of the day, but first, and please support this. All right, we're not asking you any more, clearly, a clear request is made. Our order of day is our right. Frg_02414*001*028&lt;10:58: 02&gt;
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u50	Yeah, who else? Peter Cibenko, please. Then. Who else is there? Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u51	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues, well, indeed, there is absolutely no subject of controversy at this time, because the Supreme Council, by the way, without the opposition, has decided to consider all the order of the day for today. So the issue is that the Supreme Council has made a guaranteed decision, that today the issues that are in order today will be addressed. And secondly, I didn't want to talk about it, but the opposition colleagues who are blocking the rostrum today, they made me remind myself that you've given birth to the problem of rising retirement age, because future officials, you've signed a memo that was part of an increase in retirement age. So when it was convenient, you made that decision, today, when you became an opposition, you refuse. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u52	You'll respond. Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u53	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, I, like you, may have a right under the Constitution, according to our regulations, we have equal rights. Why do we have such a situation in the hall that one of the laws that was passed yesterday should be considered today? Does he have an extracurricular status? He doesn't have that status. Secondly, there's no conclusion to these laws, there's no response to these laws to Minfin and so on. Why do we get so that some laws are in the Supreme Council for two or three years and they still don't wait for their decision, and the other laws that were discussed yesterday are being passed to the Supreme Council today? And then we fix them, we make them, or we replace them, or we cancel them. I have a proposition: let's put the order in this direction: there are presidential laws -- they're extracurricular, there's government laws that can also be considered in turn, and the rest of the laws, they have to be considered in accordance with the graph. After passing the laws, it's time to consider them, please consider. Why we have this practice and what we do every time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, they exchanged their thoughts. There's two. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we're not gonna say anything else. Dear colleagues! I'll ask you later. You'll be there. Not for one minute, you'll be performing many times today. Dear colleagues, there are two suggestions. The first proposal voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to consider all issues today, as set out in the timetable. Hence, there is every reason to sit down and work. And let's look at all these questions. Second offer. Second sentence, pay attention! The second proposal is to consider now, honourable colleagues, first of all the questions on which the Faction “BUT – Fatherland” insists. And provided that the Supreme Council of Ukraine doesn't support the decision, don't block the rostrum, because I understand that the question is in the plane: all we need is the questions that we consider and then we block the rostrum. Let's say that word. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u55	That's right. And the third offer. At the request of two factions, a break of 30 minutes is announced. The faction leaders are requested to meet in the offices of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. But I'll tell you what, dear colleagues, if we don't find an understanding, today's session will be closed. Next Wednesday you'll be asking your questions because you don't want to look at what you're proposing. Break until 11 o'clock 30 minutes. Faction leaders, please gather in the office.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-08-m0.u56	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, your attention. As yesterday's work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been blocked, we have not been able to close our session with you, so now, today, I declare the third plenary session of the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
