ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:13]] There were 403 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, our colleague, Litwinov Leonida Fedorovich. Please welcome him and wish him good health. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on July 6, 2010. 36 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 11 laws and 4 decrees were passed, 7 bills were passed on the basis, 1 bill was returned to the committee for further consideration and 1 bill and 1 draft regulation were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that yesterday the majority of the votes of the national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have decided to make changes to the calendar of the sixth session in order to hold an evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will begin at 16 hours. In view of this, dear fellow believers, please pay attention! - because you and I on the Conciliation Council have agreed that if the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to make changes to the calendar plan, at 16:00 we will begin to consider the Judicial and Status Act. draft Law on the judiciary and the status of judges. Clearly, this will take a lot of effort and time, so we need to make a decision at the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the evening meeting will be held before the issue is resolved. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to vote. [[10:02:28]] For 228 Decision taken. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with the article. Then, then. In accordance with article 25. Well, we're about to have a performance! In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Wednesday for statements by national deputies with applications, suggestions, reports. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Names of the National Deputies, please take them to the board. National Deputy Gorbatuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions. Kozak will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Our State’s competitiveness for 2009 dropped another 10 points. Of the 143 countries in the world, Ukraine has the 82nd position at the given rate. Including the very negative impact on the efficiency of our economy, the well-being of citizens is one of the world's most imperfect fiscal, opaque, tax system. The tax system of Ukraine from 183 countries is 181. It is therefore essential that the Supreme Council, together with public associations, effectively complete its consideration of the Tax Code, which should have not only – and we are confident – a fiscal component, but also propose a package of stimulus measures to increase economic efficiency, reduce corruption, the shadow sector of the economy, expand the tax base, so that the income part of the budget is primarily carried out, not by increasing tax pressure, but by creating favourable conditions for industrial development, business, small, medium-sized business. And that can only be achieved in the dialogue between the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian expert environment. This includes the Economic Council of the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. At this time, very important questions have been resolved. Odystic articles have been removed, which envisioned extending the rights of tax authorities contrary to the rights of taxpayers. The issue of unacceptable write-offs without a court decision has been removed, the issue of sealing the premises, the review of the housing fund without a court decision. It is very serious that the issue of verifications is now of fundamental importance and that an editorial is adopted in the context of the President’s proposals, which restores the balance between the rights and obligations of the State and the taxpayers. Small and medium-sized business. There is a very serious work to be done to expand the direction of activities that are entitled to a simplified tax system. The tax vacation system is improving, and the State’s obligation to compensate for the negative VAT balance is being seriously overturned. Stimulating functions, accelerated depreciation, core funds need to be updated. On the basis of the foregoing, we urge all the members of the Supreme Council to join forces, remove contradictions, and adopt a quality, modern, balanced Tax Code of our State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u3	National Deputy Kozak, faction of the Party of the Regions. The right to speak is given to Inna, the Divine One, and the next one will be given by Nadosh.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u4	Dear community! Respectable compatriots! In recent times, we have seen more and more cases where criminals who should be punished for their crimes insist that they are not to blame for what they have done. Political scandals are being waged around various topics, and this is now the subject that has become the shame of Ukraine, the question of the Bolshevik invasion, of its time, of private ownership by Mrs. Timoshenko and the government in charge of it. It's about gas. I'm going to read you a document that was broken by the then Supreme Council, which was a report on the gas market during the gas war. Even then, in 2009, members of the interim commission of inquiry into the functioning of the gas system in Ukraine concluded that statements by the Government of Ukraine regarding the transition to the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” of ownership of natural gas regarding the gas “Rosukrenenergo” during the work of the interim commission of inquiry had not been confirmed. The interim commission of inquiry insists on investigating criminal cases based on the fact that a crime against property is committed at a state level, so that these cases are in the area of special attention by law enforcement authorities and the head of state, and those responsible do not escape responsibility. As early as 2009, the whole of Ukraine and the world community monitored how in the 21st century, as the Bolsheviks did in their time, private property was seized, regardless of laws and law. Today we need to understand that the Stockholm Court case is not a matter for individuals or a state, it is a matter for the implementation of the Constitution in Ukraine in general to protect private property at the level of the State. We need to understand that if in 2009 the main accountant of Naftogazu refused to put this gas on account in Naftogaza, and the government of Tymoshenko did so that the interim contractor put this gas on account, that means that it was illegal. If we say today that the person who illegally leaked this gas across the border should be responsible for this, we have to do it. Until the criminals of the highest rank sit on the bench of defendants in Ukraine, we will never be in order. And that's why everyone who's guilty in court has to be punished, and that's when it's going to start setting up, really, a normal order, and people will feel their own protection in their own country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u5	National MP Nadosha is referring the right to speak to Leonid Kojari, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u6	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! To implement the agreements reached during the meeting of the presidents of Ukraine and the United States of America at the Washington Nuclear Safety Summit in April this year, Hillary Clinton, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary, visited Ukraine on July 2-3, with an official visit. During the meeting with the President of Ukraine, topical issues of Ukrainian-American relations were discussed and there was a marked trend towards increased cooperation between the two countries. The American side was informed of the main trends of Ukraine's internal and external policies at the current stage. In turn, the Secretary of State reported that the United States respects Ukraine's choice of non-block status and removal from the agenda at the current stage of NATO membership. She also stressed that these issues should be handled by the Ukrainians themselves. The U.S. Secretary of State welcomed the fact that the presidential elections in Ukraine were conducted according to international standards. She also welcomed the progress of the negotiating process on the new association agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. At the meeting of President Yanukovic of Ukraine and Secretary of State Clinton, the agreement reached by the President of Ukraine and the United States, particularly regarding Ukraine’s decision to dispose of highly enriched uranium. As part of Hillary Clinton’s official visit to Ukraine, the heads of Ukraine’s foreign political authorities and the United States held meetings of a bilateral strategic partnership commission. The session discussed a number of issues that reflect the current state of bilateral dialogue “International and regional security, foreign policy and defence, democracy and the rule of law, nuclear security and non-proliferation, military and technical cooperation”. In the context of the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, both sides confirmed the importance of continuing international aid, including contributions to the Coverage Fund to transform it into an environmentally sound system. In this context, the Ukrainian side stressed the importance of the international conference on Chernobyl, scheduled for April 2011 in Kiev. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's visit to Ukraine confirmed the strategic nature of Ukrainian-American relations and the important place Ukraine holds among the U.S. foreign political priorities. Hillary Clinton expressed support for the United States Administration, Ukraine's continued cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, as well as the main foreign policy priorities of our nation, aimed primarily at developing a mutually beneficial relationship with the European Union, the Russian Federation and the United States. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u7	Oleg Zarubinsky, Lithuanian Block faction. The following will be the national deputy, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u8	Oleg Zarubinski, People’s Party Dear colleagues, honourable citizens, the issue of resisting proliferation, violence and cruelty has arisen repeatedly in recent years, both at the level of public discussion and in the form of draft legislation. Moreover, a number of standards had been adopted to stop or limit the display of examples of social behavior in television. As the world trend has shown in recent years, teenagers can devote more time to watching TV than to learning. In fact, television has become one of the main sources of human socialization. The absence of moral principles in the production of film and television products has led producers and directors often to try to exploit immorality as one of the strong arguments for audience involvement and thus profit recovery. This, in turn, led to the fact that a large number of film productions began to threaten the normal existence of society. This has created one of the major threats not only to the formation of normal adolescent mentality but also to the spread of social and immoral behavior in adulthood. Crimes of mutilation — the mutilation of movie theaters — were not unique. And that's only a result of the provocation of criminal acts. Alcoholism, smoking, drug addiction, suicide, illegal acts that are actively popularized by movie heroes form an inadequate perception of these phenomena by children and adolescents, even modern animation films have reached the point where they are often used in their own story of apparent cruelty. The task of the State is to form such an individual as to conform to the moral principles it upholds. At the same time, in view of the decline in the level of culture in society, it can be noted that the State is not coping, in this case, with its responsibilities. And I went to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and I got a pretty solid answer, which says that there are a lot of actions, there are a lot of programs to eliminate this dangerous, extremely dangerous phenomenon. But obviously these programs, these measures, are either virtual or ineffective, because today a teenager, a child sees from a TV screen, in a movie theater what shapes and calcifies its social behavior. I think that this issue should be the subject of the attention of the entire Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u9	Viacheslav Kirilenko, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", will be followed by Alexander Goodima instead of the Upper.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The group “For Ukraine!” Indignant by approval yesterday in the whole of Bill 6518, which was submitted by the Minister of Education of Tobacco to the ruling coalition. This bill not only destroys the ten-year work of the Academy of Educators and the education community on high school reform, but I'm instituting compulsory preschool education. Even the most barbaric totalitarian regimes were not conceived to force parents to put their children into kindergartens regardless of their abilities and desires. But that is what the deputies of the ruling coalition voted for yesterday, which can now be termed Communist with full confidence. In doing so, the Law on the Rules was grossly violated, as the law was immediately voted in general, depriving me and the other deputies of the possibility of amending the bill. I am officially addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, the chairman of the meeting on the inadmissibility of signing this so-called law because of violations of the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If this law becomes effective, this summer five - year - olds who do not attend kindergartens will be forced into these gardens, some 200,000 - year - olds, five - year - olds who are either unable to provide for their parents or are considered to be better educated in the family, since preschool education is a right rather than a parent’s duty. Today, only 57 percent of children attend kindergartens, and even now they are overcrowded, with 108 children per 100 seats in kindergartens and much more in large cities. What happens if we force the rest of the Ukrainian children into these gardens? There is another problem in the village, only 33 percent of children visit kindergartens because they are mostly absent in the village. In Kiev, what should be done when groups between 3 and 6 years of age are filled with 20 children? What if the average wage for a kindergarten teacher is 1400 dollars and the assistant teacher is 790 dollars? What should parents do if the cost of visiting a private kindergarten is up to 4,000 bracelets a month? There are no answers to these questions. The economy of 4 billion dollars reported by Tobacco, which was canceled in the 12th year of secondary education, is returning even more money to be invested in the provision of forced preschool education. In this regard, the Group “For Ukraine!” refers to the Head of Parliament not to sign this law, President Yanukovic, if signed here, to veto. If this is not done, we will refer to the Constitutional Court. Well, the Minister of Tobacco's decision yesterday has only brought parliament closer to imminent retirement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u11	Alexander Goodima, BUT faction. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u12	Gudima National Deputy, Fatherland Party, Timoshenko Yulia Block. President-in-chief, honourable national deputies, I ask the question that comes out of many of the promises made by President Yanukovic, Prime Minister Azarov, Minister Boyko, who wanted to give back the Ukrainian gas transport system Gazprom, who said that there would be an uptake or merger of Gazprom with NAK “Naftogaz”. It is absolutely true that the Ukrainian legislation that prohibits such acts needs to be changed. We need to change the Pipeway Transport Act. What do you have to do to give back the Ukrainian undergrounds “Roskreenergo” and “Firtasha”? Absolutely right, there's nothing to be done. All we have to do is turn to the Stockholm Court, and the government will refuse to defend the national interests of Ukraine. Many documents have already been shown in this Parliament. And I want to remind the Ukrainian National Deputies that there is a document that is due in July 2004, and this is a treaty signed by your Minister, the Honourable Party of the Regions, Yuri Boyko and the representative of Rosukreenergo Firtash. This document rents Ukrainian land for rent from April 2, 2005 to April 15, 2030. This is a legal privatisation that does not require a change in Ukrainian legislation. What was in that famous document where only the “Rosukreenergo” was born in the middle of the Party of Regions. I'll read it. “With this document, Mr Boyko, on behalf of the Ukrainian State, leased underground gases to the “Rosukre Energo” Repositories for 30 years. ” Next. “The price of gas was paid at a $2 tariff rate, it was the lowest rate in Europe and it was 5 times lower than in our neighbours: Poles, Slovaks. And the tariff rate was not allowed to be viewed in terms of the first two years and then it. could not be changed but only twice for the entire duration of the contract.” That is, today we have a situation where there are ways to ignore national interests and give “Roskreenergo” national acquisitions. Who is in prison today? Today, there is a patriot named Makarenko who has implemented the decision of the government that he has reserved for the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u14	Gas. Yes, who is not in prison today? Today, there are not all ideologists and authors in prison, when 12 billion metres of cubic gas worth 5 billion should be devoted to “Rosukre Energo”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u15	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, the BUT faction, will be followed by Kovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u16	Vladimir Yavorowski, Party of the Fatherland “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, city of Kirovograd. Dear voters, I'd like to inform you that Ukraine is coming out of the gray forgettable zone, which is now very active in writing, and here's the last episode. In France, a unique book called “The Crusade of Fraud” was to be published this week and was to be published on the ledger, which was called “The Crusade of Fraud” – a collection of all the unique frauds of the 21st and 21st centuries, but the publication of this book was stopped in order to bring fraud without which the book would not be complete. I'm talking about cheating around Rosukrenerego and Firtash. So you can imagine the level of the world taking this colossal criminal adventure. I also want to remind you of what my colleague, Olez Goodima, said here, I want to say that our government and Naftogaz of Ukraine, which initially defended the interests of the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian economy, later gave up a very authoritative legal firm called Masters, which defended Ukraine's interests, and in fact removed the defence by clearing the way for this decision. Moreover, one of the judges of this Stockholm court gave an interview for the Washington Post newspaper, an anonymous interview because he is a judge and has no right to shine, who claimed that in his 35-year history of the judiciary he never remembers or knows such an episode if the state itself refused to defend its interests. Because of this, respected Ukrainians, Firtash is making $5.4 billion out of the budget, he'll put it in his pocket and split it. I'm guessing who he'll share it with, because the President couldn't afford it, but that money will be pulled out of your pockets in Ukraine. This is the power you voted for. And the second. There are a lot of divorces here today and they wanted Hillary Clinton to let smoke in her eyes that there is nothing going on with freedom of speech in Ukraine. So I'm going to give you another episode. For 8 years, she was on the air, on the First National Channel, my program “20 minutes with Vladimir Yavorowski”. It was attended by 18,000 with letters from the Ukrainian commonwealth. There have been 786 releases. The day that the new radio management came from the Party of the Regions, Abraham was like Taras, I was told that my program was being thrown out of the air. I'm saying this so that people, 10 million people listening to this radio programme, know what's going on today with freedom of speech in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u17	Kovalova, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please. People's MP Sphinx. The faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Melnik Peter instead of Jaroschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! This week, at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum will be considered. As the author of this bill, I would like to reiterate the importance of its adoption. I would like to thank all colleagues who have participated in the preparation for the second reading draft. The members of the Sectoral Committee have done a great deal of work. A meeting of the relevant subcommittee was held three times. The bill had been tabled twice for consideration by the committee itself. After the adoption of the bill on pen reading, my work on the bill also continued. As a result of the discussion of the bill with the people's deputies, representatives, public authorities, experts in this area, I have made a number of amendments to the second reading. These amendments are aimed at improving the law and ensuring its clear implementation. They do not change the concept of the bill adopted on first reading. I would also like to recall that, in preparing the bill, special attention has been paid to the implementation of the recommendations of the Venice Commission set out in the guidelines for constitutional referendums at the national level of 2001. The process is regulated in a step-by-step and detailed manner. The draft was one of the most widely discussed in the field of expertise and led to heated discussions. This is useful for the quality of the final document. But it is important to avoid overpoliticizing the discussion process and to focus on the legal side. As you recall, last year a bill on the All-Ukrainian referendum was considered and adopted in an entirely different political situation, confirming its need for independence from the political power of power. There is an objective need to adopt the bill. First. The Constitution enshrines the right of people to exercise direct power. This constitutional right needs a mechanism for implementation. The referendum is one of the tools for the implementation of nationality. The current law on the referendum of the actual mechanism does not provide. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly pointed to the right of people to power, to determine the constitutional order in Ukraine, to be bound by the results of popular will. Thus, we see a number of legal reasons for the early adoption of this bill. This is all the more relevant given the holding of the elections by local authorities in the near future. Citizens should be able to be heard. The Constitution of Ukraine, in article 5, provides that the people are the holders of sovereignty, and that a single source of authority in Ukraine establishes that the people exercise power, including directly. The new law would meet the requirements of the Constitution and ensure the implementation of the nationality, the implementation of the decisions adopted by the referendum. The people of Ukraine have been waiting for this law for a long time. Please support the bill, which we will have on Thursday on the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u19	National Deputy Peter Melnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Hrapov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u20	Peter Melnik, faction of the Party of Regions, Kiev Dear voters, dear colleagues, you and I were participants in an event yesterday, as far as I'm concerned, we made every effort yesterday to take the appropriate decision on the 671 amendments to the Budget Code or the budget Constitution of our State. I'm sure tomorrow we'll make the final point. This is our joint mission, the joint mission of the President of our State of Viktor Yanukovic, the joint mission of Parliament, the coalition, in this case both coalition and opposition. Because it affects the interests of literally everyone and, of course, our one goal, our goal in ten years to enter the world's twentieth most economically developed countries. Our goal is to ensure that citizens are so well-being that they are worthy citizens of European co-workers. And of course, the road map is those reforms, and the 2010-2014 reform programme and the values that are set out in this reform, in this programme. I want to remind you that they are also in the message of Viktor Yanukovic, President of our nation, to the Ukrainian people. They're also set up in the right directions for the 2011 budget policy, which you and I adopted on June 4th of this year. It's about principles, it's about the national values that need a legal basis for their implementation. This is very important because yesterday there were replicas, what values and how to achieve these values, what ways to achieve them. Of course, because of improved governance and better governance of government finances. Of course, because of the decline in deficits and the growth rate of government debt. Of course, because of the increased efficiency and flexibility of fiscal spending. And the main thing, for me, is the introduction of a transparent system or not a corrupt system of budget management, budgetary resources. Anything you can do to keep the smaller segment of the economy in shadow. Most of all. It's the tiniest shade of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u21	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u22	I just want to invite all of us to vote tomorrow -- both coalition and opposition -- for the budget. For the budget code of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u23	The National MP, Hrapov, hands over the right to speak to the colleague of Kzarkov. Last performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u24	Respectable People's Deputies, distinguished voters! In Wikipedia's materials, there was official information on the construction of the stadium in Lviv to the Euro-2012 Championship, and a parallel statement by the Lviv Observatory that a new stadium by Euro-2012 was planned to be named Bandera. According to the MP, the stadium wants to be called the lookout for Ukrainian nationalists because this person is an example for all subsequent generations of Ukraine. However, the stadium's owner, Lvivski Horsovet, went further: and a stadium worth 700 million grevens with 35,000 viewers proposes the name “Lemberg”, as we know, is the German name Lviv. You know, it's definitely a fact that juschenkov has left us a bad legacy, and on the anniversary of the great anniversary of the 65th anniversary of the victory of the entire Soviet people over the fascist bastard, we have to discuss one of the main stadiums called the collabarcinist adoration or the German name of Lviv. The nationalist non- Fascist forces are openly recognized both as Ukraine's priority. Their national awareness was not even sufficient for the design of the project and the original developer was also the German firm Hochtiv Design. All the historical freaks from that camp wanted to recall a match that took place in 1941, and you know that the first rally that played at the stadium called “Republican” in 1942 won with the bill 7:2 by the Ukrainian team Ruh. Later she played Hungarian garrison with an account of 6:2 even later Romanians with an account of 11:0 and then a fascist team with an account of 9:0. Before the last match, the Soviet football team had German colonels in the locker room, along with the pro-fascists, just from Galicia, and asked for the match to be underground, that was not the case. On 16 August, the Start played against the Ruha and won the 8-0 account. Unfortunately, it was the last match because your captors gave up prominent football players. Why do I bring this example? For this unequal match, for the money of Western capital to destroy our historical memory, for the humiliation of veterans and the bright feats of our grandfathers and ancestors under the leadership of the CIA, and for the backdrops that sit in Parliament in the right part of it, you try to rewrite history. That's not gonna happen. On behalf of the majority of Ukrainian citizens, from the multimillion-dollar army of veterans of the Great Homeland War, from millions of young citizens, the successor of Soviet victorious soldiers, I call on the President, the coalition government, the Euro-2012 coalition majority of MPs in Parliament to prevent the continuation of the nationalist Sabbath, and to prevent the name of the All-Ukrainian stadium, which is created in public money by the name of Bandera, and even worse, the German name Lvova Lemberg.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, statements by national deputies, or statements by national deputies, we have concluded. Regarding the suggestions made in the presentations regarding the need to prepare appropriate assignments, I ask the secretariat to do this work. Dear colleagues, given that Wednesday is the day of opposition and that certain coalitions arise, such results were achieved during the negotiations. I ask everyone to listen to them carefully. In order for us to work on a business plan and demonstrate productive work, and most of all without an excession, we have concluded that, given the circumstances that the opposition on Wednesday determines its vision of the organization of work, that is, the list of issues to be discussed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, now put to the vote without discussion on the demand of the opposition two human resources decisions. Further, regardless of the outcome of these decisions, honourable colleagues should decide that we should vote first in the chapter “On integration into the agenda” and, by putting the two energy bills first, then move to the consideration of the issues in chapter one, that is to say, the consideration of the issue of decision-making in the first reading. At the same time, we agreed that there would be no basis for any motivation for blocking, and there would be no corresponding announcements for a recess to block the rostrum. We need to work. So once again, I'm underlining the proposal on how to organize our work today: to now consider two human resources issues, to continue to vote on the inclusion of the chapter in the agenda of the bill, that is, to consider it afterwards. After considering the inclusion in the agenda of the daily bills, move to the first chapter, namely the discussion of drafts to be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading. Is there no objection? And we agree that, dear colleagues, that we are working fruitfully to complete the consideration of the issues identified by the list today without interruption until 14:00. The break will be in 16 hours, and at 16 we'll continue our work. That's why now, dear colleagues, such personnel matters. What? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! So that was the deal, and I'm talking about it because they're not ready, so if you have to go, they'll be discussed on the committee. Dear colleagues! I'm being claimed, why personnel issues without discussion? So I say, first of all, because there was this arrangement. Secondly, if you require procedure, you need to. I'll tell you in a minute, yeah. Then I'll say, my fellow Members, in accordance with the Rules, we need to consider this issue on the committee and, irrespective of the committee's will, we need to discuss it. Why do I say that? Because there are a number of draft decrees for the release of a number of members of the Cabinet of Ministers with the motivation that their appointment was not considered in the Cabinet of Ministers. More specifically, the question of their appointment was not dealt with on the committee. So then we have to show some logic, so a minute from each faction, let's do it the way we agreed to say it, and then we're going to make a decision by voting. Does that offer satisfy you? Satisfying. Now, at the request of a proposal, I'm announcing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u26	Opposition! We have an offer and an opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! You'll have to go on vacation. At the request of the opposition, I am announcing a draft regulation on the release of the Minister of Fuel and Energy, Boyk Jury Anatoliyovich. Please, Roman Zvaric, microphone, author. Then who's next? Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, without discussing the matter, it seems to me that it would be wrong to make a decision. As a matter of fact, we all had the opportunity to familiarize ourselves with the Stockholm Court of Arbitration ruling. It clearly follows the very clear trend to be set in the context of the criminal code at the disposal of the article “State Betrayal”. Because NAC representatives there understood the Minister of Fuel and Energy's mandate to give up all the interests of Ukraine in this matter. First, it was determined that the gas that was purchased to meet the needs of our population was acquired illegally, it was the position of the NAC. N.A.K.A. also admits that from this judgment of the court that any fines that may be imposed by subsequent judges, they already recognize their aberrations. So this list can be continued. Our position is reduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u29	Let me finish the argument, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u30	Our position is to the next. Clearly, such behavior by NAC representatives in this trial could not have taken place without a clear direction from the Minister of Fuel and Energy. In view of this, we propose and demand that today the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide on the release of Mr. Boyk from office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u31	Thank you. Sergei Soboljev microphone, please, or on the rostrum. Please come to the rostrum. Who will be next?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u32	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Representatives of all factions of Parliament. I would like to explain why Mr. Boyko endorsed such decisions. Because I don't think the secret is not just the secret decisions of the so-called Stockholm Arbitration, but not the secret is the documents that are printed in free access that testify to one thing. First, Mr. Firtash is a direct participant in “Ruskreenergo”, among those who are directly represented in the governing bodies of “Ruskreenergo” on the side of the commercial structure “Centragaz AG”. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Minister of Fuel and Energy directly influences what Ruskre Energo received from the state budget $5.4 billion. The other one. It is also in the free access that Mr. Firtas revealed three years ago that Mr. Boyko was entrusted with representing all his interests in all the official structures, which Mr. Boyko presented, according to the confidence of Mr. Firtash.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u33	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u34	represented the position of the state of Ukraine, where once again the 5.4 billion dollars of Ukraine are in fact now forced to pay. Therefore, our position is clear, let such a minister be in the “Roskrenego” rather than in charge of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! Is there another faction that wants to express its point of view? Please, Valery Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u36	Baran's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! You and I have had a sad experience in dealing with human resources issues in the State. We remember that in the past, 18,000 professionals had been dismissed by the previous authorities and appointed by the Bayanists, photographers and other people who had no relation to the governance system. Today we are invited to do the same, there is a problem, it exists, it is voiced to the Supreme Council, and we must quickly resolve the leadership's fate without being intruded into the situation. Therefore, there is a proposal by our President of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mihajlovich, that is perfectly logical, in accordance with the Supreme Council's Rules, that any such problem and personnel issue should be discussed in the relevant committee, and that the Supreme Council could then address the issue in depth. Therefore, our faction considers such an approach unacceptable and supports Vladimir Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u37	Alla Alexandrovska, please, Microphone. Jaroslav Suhi later.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u38	The Alexandrian Communist faction of the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues! Based on the logic of Roman Zvarić's statement, the author of the bill, we need to decide to terminate the work of the interim investigative commission, which was only recently created to assess developments related to the decision of the Arbitration Chamber of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. For that reason, we have established a temporary investigative commission to understand what has happened, what decisions have been taken, whether the damage to Ukraine, who is to blame. That is why I understand that I am surprised that Roman Mihajlovich claims that he knows everything that he understands and he is already making conclusions, and he proposes to make a personal decision. Why, then, should we set up a commission that he felt should have been addressed and we had only had the first meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u39	Jaroslav Suhi. The line is at the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u40	Dear opposition lords! Please tell me, where is the limit to your cynicism? You might think you don't know that because of adventure. Dear man, me and Ternopolis, you can kiss a raspberries' mouth! Now listen to what I tell you, and I'm a deputy like you. Because of the adventure, the legal illiteracy, the legal nihilism of your former and present leaders, the disrespect for property rights of Ukraine is not in one court of an international institution, the lawsuits brought to it by more than 20 billion, and Stockholm is the first ticket. What should concern us today? So that no one would ever allow such a thing to happen in the future because of the terrible damage suffered by our host country. These are your methods, but they're not going to work. Do we think about how to avoid such things in the future?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'll put it to a vote. I remember! Now we're going to vote and you're going to have a line. Dear fellows, the line is given after the question is concluded, everything! I beg of you, fellows of honor! I'm betting on a bill from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 6555 on the release of the Minister of Fuel, Energy Boyk Yuri Anatoliyovich. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:49:33]] For-157. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 122, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 35, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 0, non-fractional – 0. The replica. Roman Zvaric. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I agree with the logic that Mrs. Alexandrovsky was here. But at the meeting. Temporary commission investigators set up commissions to determine whether there is an issue or whether there is a violation that provides for criminal liability. I assure you that, first of all, this commission will work completely objectively and without prejudice, this is the first time. But secondly, if, at the level of the commission of inquiry, it will soon be established that there have been, indeed, a component of the crime, then I assure you that we will once again make the appropriate decision and we will demand that the Attorney General open criminal proceedings on this very unfortunate incident, in a case that actually bears all the signs of treason.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u43	Yes, dear colleagues, now the next question. This is a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine for the introduction of the application for the release of the head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Khoroshkowski. This is a question that needs to be included in the agenda, because it's not just a personnel question, it's a draft resolution. So please, the microphone of Sergio Soboljev, the initiator of this decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u44	Thank you for being able to submit this project. I would like to remind you that this is a draft appeal to the President of Ukraine, because our constitutional duties as national deputies do not include a direct rule regarding the release of the Head of the Security Service, and we can do so only after the submission of the President of the State. In our view, what happened in recent months, when Mr. Horoshkovsky as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, combining his commercial interests directly as a joint owner of the Inter Channel, where he is, in fact, co-owner with Mr. Horoshkovsky, who has the right to purchase a control bag of this channel. With Mr. Firtash, in fact, today he has done everything possible to ensure that freedom of speech and the free channels that exist in Ukraine do not exist or exist. Secondly, Mr. Horoshkovsky directly used his service capabilities to open up a criminal case concerning Makarenko and, in fact, to exert pressure on the judicial system without allowing the matter to be essentially solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u45	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u46	With regard to those officials who gave direct commands in Stockholm to lose the case on the part of Ukraine. That is why we insist that such an appeal to the President of Ukraine be directly voted in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I would like to place a motion for inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Order to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine for the submission of the release of the Head of the Security Service of the Ukraine of Horoshkovsky. [[Registration number 6666]] Please determine by vote. [[10:53:37]] For-153 The decision is not taken. We're working on it. Dear colleagues, as we have agreed with you, I don't think we need to vote now. We're moving the sections. First, consider the chapter on the inclusion of draft laws in the agenda. And we will continue to work on the bills that are already being prepared by the committees. Dear colleagues! I would like to vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Decision on certain issues in relation to the decisions of the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce in the case of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine v. ZAT "Rosukrenergo". I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:54:58]] For 416 The question is included in the order of the day. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Energy Security Act. Registration number 6658. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:55:28]] For 410 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Amnesty of Income Act, from which no taxes are paid, budgets and state funds are paid. [[obligatory payments]] Registration number 6071. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:56:02]] For-57 The decision is not supported. Should I read by name? The factions, please. Region Party – 3, Block Timoshenko – 15, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 37, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 0, non-fractional – 2. I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. Order to mark the 145th anniversary of the birth of the Metropolitan of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church. Registration number 6561. [[10:56:51]] For 171 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. Order on the 130th anniversary of Vladimir Vinicken's birth. [[Registration number 6623]] Please vote. [[10:57:20]] For-173 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the Order on the Mark 175th anniversary of the birth of Alexander the Needy, I think everyone knows who Alexander the Needy is, please vote. [[Registration number 6624]] [[10:57:51]] For-183 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, Alexander the Great is not a political actor at all, but a prominent scientist. I'm betting on a motion to include in the agenda of the daily project the 100th anniversary of Fedor Manuille's birth. [[Registration number 6625]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:58:28]] For 199 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 90th anniversary Decision of the Hero of the Soviet Union Sultan Ahmet Khan twice. [[Registration number 6626]] Please vote. [[10:59:01]] For 383 Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. [[Registration number 6627]] Please vote. [[10:59:30.]] For 393 Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to be included in the agenda of the daily project. It's the 120th anniversary of Zinaida Tolub's birth. [[11:00:00]] For-151 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 110th anniversary of Catherine Bilokur's birth. [[Registration number 6629]] Please vote. [[11:00:28]] For 389 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. Order to mark the 170th anniversary of Michael Staricksky's birth. [[Registration number 6630]] Please vote. [[11:00:57]] For 402 Decision taken. I'm voting for a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 90th anniversary of the birth of Mikola Rudenko. [[Registration number 6631]] [[11:01:25]] For-170. The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the Order to mark the 440th anniversary of the birth of Gethman Peter Sagajdajdachny. [[Registration number 6632]] [[11:01:53]] For 394 Decision taken. I'm voting on a proposal for a day-to-day draft regulation to regulate the placement of creative craftsmen in the National Association of Ukrainian Artists. [[Registration number 6642]] Please vote. Please vote. [[11:02:23]] For 185 The decision is not taken. That's too bad. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the provision of first-time jobs for young people]] [[Registration number 6446]] Please vote. [[11:02:55]] For-198 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 119, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 51, communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 1, "Club of Lithuania" – 0. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on International Private Law [[on the protection of Ukraine's property and intangible interests as a State, its territorial communities, as well as those held in state or municipal property, in international disputes]] [[11:03:51]] For 169 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Timoshenko” – 113, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 52, Communists – 0, “Club of Lithuania” – 4, non-fractional – 0. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on informing the population about the content of genetically modified organisms in food. Registration number 6251. At the same time, the author of the bill addressed such a letter. “Please postpone consideration of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on informing the population about the content of genetically modified organisms in food products, the author and the reporter of which I am, from the date of the Supreme Council of Ukraine meeting on 7 July to the following plenary week due to the fact that on 7 July I will be away and will not be able to report personally from the above question.” [[Registration number 6251]] I'm betting on a motion to postpone the consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 6251]] [[11:05:19]] For 362 Decision taken. I'm announcing before the review a draft law on recognition in such a way that it has become invalid, the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, note that there is nothing to consider in connection with the adoption of the Law on the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in our time after the Constitutional Court declared the Rules unconstitutional, we then passed a law on one line: a law that governs the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its activities, the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So this is a technical question. When there is no objection to the head of the committee and you, I will put to the vote a decision, namely: the draft law on Ukraine as a law on recognition of those who have lost validity, the Act on the Organization and Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6221]] Please vote. [[11:06:39]] For 351 The decision has been taken, or the law has been passed. Dear colleagues! I'm announcing a draft law on the National Anti-Corruption Committee. [[Registration number 5437]] There is a proposal to consider the bill on a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[11:07:24]] For 234 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Arsenij Petrovich Yacenuk. Correspondent is a member of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Oleg Volodymyrovich Novikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u48	Good afternoon, community of honor! Dear National Deputies! There are several mantras in Ukraine, and one of the mantras is the war on corruption. Unfortunately, no results have ever been achieved. The country is down in international ratings every year in the real fight against corruption. We now occupy 146 places of honor between Kenya and Ecuador, like a country that is truly completely and completely corrupt. Regrettably, corruption has become the foundation of Ukrainian life. You can't be born without corruption, because you have to give money to a maternity home, and you can't die the same way, because you have to give money to someone at the Fairy's Cemetery, to anyone else. But the problem is not that corruption is at a lower level, the problem is that corruption comes from the highest echelons of power. Tax administration, the law enforcement system, the education system, the free system -- that's all that's wronged Ukraine, and that's all that metastasized the Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian society. Clearly, the adoption of a bill will not solve the problem of corruption. This must be a complex approach that has not been presented. I would like to remind you that Parliament has adopted an anti-corruption package, which, for inexplicable reasons, has been delayed into adoption, and deferred entry into force. In order to effectively overcome corruption, it is necessary to start with systemic reforms, from systemic reforms to deregulation, from systemic reforms, in order to remove the state's hand and state influence on all spheres of life, from systemic reforms in education, from systemic reforms in entrepreneurship, in land affairs, in law enforcement. However, a real war with corruption requires an organ that, by the way, was formed in the United States in the 1930 ’ s. Without the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which then persecuted banditry and corruption, America would never have overcome that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u49	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u50	In view of this, the National Anti-Corruption Committee Act is proposed for your consideration as the first step towards formation, for the first time, in the history of Ukraine, of an organ that will actually declare war on corruption - all depends on political will, political will at the top. If the President actually says he's fighting corruption, let him take the first step. And they'll start with the Bank and the other organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u51	Thank you, too. I'm asking the People's Deputy Novikov Oleg Volodymyrovich of the Committee of Decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u52	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The bill proposes the establishment of a national anticorruption committee, a military formation with special status, which is responsible for combating corruption and the official crimes of senior officials authorized to perform the functions of the State and local self - government. The bill defines the following basic concepts: corruption, corruption, official crime, military formation, a list of senior officials authorized to perform the functions of the state and local self-government. In order to implement the provisions of the bill, amendments are made to the Criminal Procedure Code, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences, the laws of Ukraine on the basis of national security, the Prosecutor's Office, the EDPS, anti-corruption measures and other legal instruments. However, some of the provisions of the bill do not fully comply with the Constitution and separate laws of Ukraine; others generally contain corrupt risks. For example, article 14 of the bill states that funding and material security for the anticorruption committee will be done both at the expense of the budget and at the expense of other sources. However, the text of the bill does not specify exactly what sources will be, which sources will be involved. So they can be both natural persons and legal persons of various forms of property. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority recommends that the bill be returned to work. The committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council on the basis of a first reading review to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u53	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Bogdan Hubsky, please. None. Then John Vernidubov, the faction of the Party of Regions, and then Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u54	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear friends, the great benefit of this law is that Yatsenuk, as commander of the front, calls for battle, is already good. And that's where the front, the forces and means to defeat the enemy, is still doing it as in the rest of the anti-corruption fighters. We are not all satisfied with the fight against corruption, of course, but to find a way out of the situation in the creation of new institutions, I think this is a “wine direction”, this is a new nonsense. It is proposed to create a new national anti-corruption committee, a state-owned body with special status. But that goes against the Constitution, we already have such organs and prosecutors, the Security Service and so on. So, something incomprehensible, this body is offered both intelligence functions and the functions of law enforcement agencies, in a form that seems to be military formations, and in fact, it's a law enforcement body. Such incomprehensible notions are very, very controversial. Who, then, will come into this newly created body? Where the astronauts are, the aliens, it's probably the same people coming and the author doesn't even make any suggestions about the selection of the personnel. There's not even a warning about testing candidates for NAC co-workers, there's no requirement for financial control, either. [[the submission of declarations]] In general, it is the adoption of a new law of this kind, and I am confident that a new legal chaos in the fight against corruption and organized crime will cause. The bill has to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u55	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, I presented a bill on the National Bureau of Investigation in this room in 1998. It's been 12 years. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, aside from the conversation, went on to say nothing. And despite what the committee has just been saying here, and the Scientific and Experimental Authority has written about a lot of comments, I want to tell you that these are observations that are much smaller than those that were before the Budget Code yesterday, or those that are given to the Court of Justice Act today, and by which we, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, somehow seem interesting. I don't know why we passed the Supreme Council Rules Act. When you have to, you use it when you don't have to, you use it on the other side. So I'd like to, or we're using the Supreme Council Rules Act, or let's say it doesn't work for anyone. Then it will be clear that we will act under other laws, perhaps this will be understandable. Takokto to this law. We need to adopt such a law, for today half the questions would not stand. Would it be with Boyko? The fight this committee would have taken under the white handles and would have sat for 15 years, as a minimum, along with Firthash and would have beaten through the wall completely with other NAK “Naftogazu” managers. Because the question is, in fact, State betrayal. Because the question is, who gave them permission today? Or was this government given, and perhaps one of the government officials also gave a higher level. So what is appointed here by the President is obviously unbalanced, we need to agree with Parliament. But you can accept that. I will vote in favour of the first reading, and I urge you to do so. This is a way to enforce the law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we follow the Rules strictly. In accordance with the Rules, if a representative of the faction has not spoken, he is entitled to one minute of the speech. Please, Valery Baranov. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u58	Respected colleagues, the problem was rightly raised, as Ukraine was indeed 186 in the world at the level of corruption. Nevertheless, we continue to suffer chronic Ukrainian disease, which is called the fight against investigations without addressing the causes. The reasons for corruption are the rigid centralization of power, the rigid centralization of finance, the corrupt system of judicial administration, law enforcement and other public authorities, which give enormous resources to officials beyond the control of our society. Is any of these problems resolved by the newly established bureau? Of course not. It is only creating new offices, new paramilitary formations, in which it will have to deal with the issue of bribes not only to law enforcement officials and judges, but also to this office. That is, not addressing the causes of this disease is not a cure. Therefore, it is totally pointless to adopt a bill in this form.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, of the factions who did not take part in the discussion, is there an insistence on the performance? I can't see. Dear colleagues, the committee's conclusion: reject the bill. The main scientific and expert office concluded that the bill should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. In accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act on the National Anti-Corruption Committee. [[Registration number 5437]] [[11:19:35]] For 115 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 5437]] Please identify yourself. [[11:20:00]] For-127 Show me an article in the Rules, then I'll give you a motive for voting. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u60	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Rules are a serious document, especially in the status of the law, but a national MP is always entitled as an integral part of the Supreme Council. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to speak to the distinguished colleague of Chechev Mikhail Vasilovich, a prominent expert and Democrat, and a specialist in the fight against corruption. Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich, why don't you explain to me and the Ukrainian public why you didn't vote for this bill? Why you didn't give the right faction sign because it's about creating a National Anti-Corruption Committee. I think it's a pressing issue, especially in the light of President Yanukovic's statement, which almost every day declares the fight against corruption. Why does the faction of the Party of the Regions not vote in favour of this law? I would like to thank you very much for the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u61	It's under review. Chechtev, please. But the answers, I'd like to ask you not to give in public, you exchange.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, today's situation reminds me of the years of the Gorbachev restructuring. Gorbachev used to print decrees in his time. At first, people rejoiced. Look how good the decrees are! And those decrees just didn't work, they just threw themselves into the urn. Then the people said why 10 orders? You're the only one to sign, control and take your head off those who didn't. But Gorbachev didn't go that way. And this paperwork buried him, just like the Soviet Union. We're not going that way! We don't have to produce structures. Let's build 20 more structures. We've got an S.B.I., we've got a Henprosecutor's office, we've got a militia. There's someone to deal with specific matters. The number of structures created only spoils the work. We'll never go down that road, yeah! But order in the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u63	A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code on improving criminal responsibility for crimes committed in a state of intense emotional excitement is under consideration. Registration number 2786. He will report from both the committee and as author of Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:22:53]] For-166 A decision has been made. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u64	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve the criminal responsibility mechanism for crimes committed in a state of intense emotional excitement. Registration number 2786. The purpose of this law is to improve criminal law and its application by supplementing the Criminal Code with a new article. Article 25, footnote 1, entitled “A State of Strong Mental Distress”. This project provides for the completion of section 5 of the General Part of the Criminal Code, article 25, with footnote 1 under the title, as I said, “A State of Strong Mental Disturbation”, the first part of which defines the concept of a state of intense emotional excitement. Part two comprehensively outlines cases of criminal responsibility for doing so under the Criminal Code of socially dangerous acts. Part three indicates the conditions under which a state of intense emotional excitement is considered to be a mitigating circumstance. And if you talk about the bill itself, this bill proposes scientifically based changes to the Criminal Code precisely on the notion of what it means to define what it is: impact, stress, space, that kind of thing. Because we have two articles -- this is 116 and 123, where this is indicated, but in the first part, in general, this notion is thrown out and it's not really given the concept of science-based, what is a state of emotional excitement that can lead to. And so in this context, the lack of a single article in the general part of the Criminal Code, as far as this concept is concerned, affects the adequate state response to such forms of behavior. That is why it was suggested that such an article be made available. The committee proposes to support, to base. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u65	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Please, Carmazin, after him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. “Our Ukraine”. Dear National MPs, the project, the more faithful Criminal Code of Ukraine is an extremely comprehensive document, and it is certainly necessary to make individual changes to it if it takes time. I did, because I spent three years working on improving it, and then we adopted a new codex, seeing whether or not we're making things worse. In this case, in my opinion, we're making things worse and we're making things worse. I cannot agree with the fact that, firstly, this is settled today in the current Criminal Code, and under article 66 of the Criminal Code, in accordance with part two of the court's specific circumstances, the case may acknowledge the state of the case, which is now referred to as a strong emotional emotion or a situation that is mitigating the punishment, but it is absolutely wrong to accept this as a mitigating circumstance in cases where the guilty person is to direct his actions against victims who have not provoked this person to those actions, in my opinion. In my opinion, this bill needs to be finalized because there are still a lot of observations and a lot of points that are being commented on, including science and expertise. And in my view, as the person who was involved in the investigation of crimes and then before the courts, this bill is imperfect. I mean, I'm all mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u67	Finish it, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u68	With all due respect to the author, I don't support this bill, because I can see that it can be used, good intentions can be used to fight crime, and for dishonests, and lawyers, and court officials, and previous investigations. And for this very reason, I think it's still early in the day, and I think we need to re-read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u69	Jaroslav Suhi. Turn on the microphone, please. The faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you are all witnessing how much effort has been spent recently on TV channels, on pages printed by the media, based on the theory of opposition pressures, that their legislative proposals are not supported, find no understanding in the hall. We just heard two bills. One suggests that the army fight against corruption, even though we cannot now in the sessionary name bills with you to liberalize economic life, which would predict a reduction in the involvement of public authorities in the development of our society, the best corruption. And by the way, here we were thinking about the United States of America, so why don't we say, the United States of America initially fought unemployment, against poverty, and then made administrative efforts to fight an official who was prone to do some kind of corruption. It's not a complex approach. The second bill, I would like to support the author of the Criminal Code, Honorary colleague Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, who rightly points out that the problem is an effect, stress, frustration -- in comments to the Criminal Code. I am sending the author to this document, there are comments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, there is a clear inscription of part 1 of article 25. A criminal code that is meant by each definition. Dear representatives of the opposition! So far, your drafts in the session room are causing one frustration, or chronic discontent, of needs that can quickly become stress, or persistent nervous stress. Please submit normal bills, and we will be sure to support them. Better in the social sphere. You don't know what, we're gonna help you, we're gonna write it down and it's gonna be okay. Don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 2786]] The Committee's conclusion is to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The conclusion of the Chief Research Administration is to reject the bill. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve the criminal liability mechanism for crimes committed in a state of intense emotional distress. [[Registration number 2786]] [[11:31:24]] For-127 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the bill for re-reading. [[Registration number 2786]] Please be sure. [[11:31:47]] For 128 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine on State supervision of the safe conduct of work. [[Registration number 4428]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Prokopchuk. The focal point is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of Vasil Gritzak's activities. I'm voting on a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:32:30.]] For 199 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u72	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The bill, which I have introduced to the Ukrainian Department of State for the Enforcement of Punishment, proposes to supplement part one of the first article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Criminal Enforcement Service with two new paragraphs of the following content: “To carry out, in accordance with the legislation, State oversight of the safe conduct of work by persons of the ordinary and primary criminal enforcement service of Ukraine in accordance with the rules and regulations of the central executive body on the execution of sentences.” Another point: “To exercise public oversight, in accordance with legislation, of the safe conduct of work by persons who are held in institutions for the execution of sentences and investigative isolations, in order to determine the legal and regulatory acts of the central executive body on the execution of sentences.” The point is that by 1998, the Ministry of Internal Affairs had been responsible for the administration of the execution of sentences. In 1998, the government, according to the decree of the President of Ukraine, seceded and became a state department. At present, the issue of ensuring the safe conduct of persons who work, namely, convicted or serving or serving, that is, those who are in the lineup and with whom there are no contracts of employment in the enforcement agencies and their businesses, remains unregulated. In advance of your questions, I will say that part three of article 119 of the Penal Code provides that the work of convicted persons is organized with respect to the rules of labour protection, safety techniques established by the Labour Law. But with the Department separated from the IMF, these issues need a legislative settlement. And I'm going to remind you that when you do the work, that's about two years ago, when you went out there to clean up a pot of weeded cabbage or something, and in turn, about five people died. Actually, it was this kind of initiative that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u73	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u74	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u75	Thank you. Vasil Gretzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u76	And who has manic-depressive syndrome, that's for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u77	Thank you. Basil Gretzak, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement. The Committee's conclusion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You have before you a draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine on State Security Supervisory for the Safety of Work, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Yuri Prokopchuk. [[Registration number 4428]] It was designed to define the obligations of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service in the part of the State's exercise of public oversight of the safe conduct of work by the members of the military and the primary members of the Criminal Enforcement Service and the persons held in the institutions of the execution of sentences and the investigative detention centres. The drafter proposes to settle matters of State oversight of the safe conduct of work by persons working or serving, and by persons who do not enter into employment contracts at enterprises, in the institutions of the State Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine, by amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Criminal Enforcement Service. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposing to reject the project. In view of the legislative provisions proposed in the bill, in particular section 17 of the first article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service and part three of article 119 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code. But the legislation does not determine on which authorities are required to monitor compliance with the legislation in question in the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service. Article 260 of the Code of Laws “On the Work of Ukraine” and Articles 31, 33 of the Act “On the Protection of Work” define the authorities responsible for overseeing and authorizing the protection of work. These legislative acts extend to all legal and natural persons who, according to the law, employ employment and all those who work. As a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u79	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u80	Considering that Project 4428 contains some shortcomings, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return it to the author for work. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u81	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. Mikhailo Chechetov, microphone, please, then Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u82	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We must not turn the day when the opposition is allowed to draft bills into some kind of butaphoric act, which has just been passed by a bill, read it, mocked it, and not laughed at by the majority. The country's best lawyer, Karmazin Yuri Anatolevich, if he doesn't leave a stone on the stone to a bill that his colleagues, who always support him in the voting room and he says, criticises, criticises the bill to the ground and says that it can't be passed, can it? Why, then, take Wednesday then, let's make the agenda and draft the bill and look together, because when the bills come from us, then we see the figure 350-370. This speaks of the quality of the bills, and when the bills come from you, Yuri Anatolyevich Karmazin says they can't be accepted. And in the end, we have a drum roll on board. So let us determine the precious time we have! Taxpayers pay money every hour for every minute of work. There are bills, let's take a look, but if there's no support, you'll understand. If even your opposition doesn't have any support for the bill, why mix people up, put them in the hall for what? You'll miss the law department first, you'll have Justice Minister Carmazin, let him see it, say it, or not, and then take it, and it's just too bad time. I support the committee's speaking colleague that, like that bill, which Carmazin has been criticised for, this is the same thing as it can't be accepted because it's not good for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u83	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u84	Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. My dear colleague, I will not generalize the legislative creativity or the lawfulness of my colleagues at all. But in this case, the right representatives of the profile committee, they gave real facts and cited articles that simply overlap with the corresponding positions in this bill. I'd like to confirm that and say the following. This included the provision in paragraph 17 of the first part of article 18, which is duplicated. And I'll tell you, this is about officials and officials of the authorities and the institutions of the execution of the sentences of the insulators who are responsible for ensuring compliance with the requirements of security legislation and so on, and so forth, and including the work. This is, my dear fellow, in other words, you repeat it. I don't think that's right. Again, I'm not generalizing your legislation, but if there's a perfectly clear formulation in two laws, it's just that the government department, more specifically the execution of sentences, does not fall within the structure of the IMF, it doesn't mean that a new law needs to be adopted in fact to repeat the same. I think it's okay and we don't have to spend time, really doing it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! The bill has been completed. The Committee’s conclusion: Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The Chief Research Administration recommends that the bill be rejected. I am voting on a proposal in accordance with the Adoption Rules on the basis of the draft Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the National Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine on State oversight of the safe conduct of work. [[Registration number 4428]] [[11:42:08]] For-61 The decision is not taken. In order to clean up our decisions, I will put to the vote a motion for re-reading the bill. [[Registration number 4428]] [[11:42:38]] For 113 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine [[on the order in which the fine is defined as a type of criminal punishment]] [[Registration number 4214]] Dear colleagues! I'm voting on a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[11:43:17]] For-200 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u86	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I see that, obviously, everyone is in a hurry today to adopt more important bills. So you need everything that makes sense, that there's no point just taking it to get across, and everyone still understands what they're saying. Quickly and quickly. I didn't want any normal legislative initiative to happen today. Because once again, I say, the previous bill, it was an initiative, including the enforcement services. It wasn't just, it was suggested on the committee, it was discussed and it really isn't in that regulatory act, it's because people are dying, not just in the village, and people are dying. But when there is no such mood today, when there is no such will today and everyone hastens to move on to that vast document that will then be considered to destroy the judicial system. Then I ask you to postpone the consideration of this bill, or remove it from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the motion to postpone the consideration of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on how to determine the amount of a fine as a form of criminal punishment. Registration number 4412. [[11:44:55]] For 299 Decision taken. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine to violate the order of pets. [[Dogs]] Registration number 5126. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Irina Heratchenko. The Coroner is the head of the committee's subcommittee on legislative security and law enforcement activities, Igor Savchenko. I'm voting on a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. [[11:45:39]] For 213 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, this is a completely apolitical law and it's about violating the criminal responsibility of the owners of domestic animals, primarily fighting dogs, and introducing articles to the Criminal Code of Ukraine that reinforce the responsibility of dog owners. In particular, a fine should be lifted from such owners if it caused the victim’s average body damage and fined between 200 and 500 untaxed minimums. And if such an animal attack caused the victim’s death or serious injury to the body, it would deprive the animal’s disheartening owner of his will for a period of three to eight years. Well, it's quite obvious that the reason for drafting such a bill has been that recently there have been more frequent cases of dog attacks on humans. In Kiev alone, more than 3,000 people suffered from a dog attack in the last 10 months. Some cases, especially when they were attacks on children, were fatal. Usually, blame the dog for such aggressive behavior, it lies solely on the owners who do not raise dogs, walk away without tips and muzzles, and even sometimes, especially in this way, have fun by putting dogs on people, without being held responsible for it, except for a fine that has recently reached only 136 dollars. In general, the problem of keeping animals in our society is complex because, on the one hand, we don't really have a special place for dogs to pop out. But from another host, they are very often completely irresponsible about the maintenance and training of their pets. And we probably have to deal with this problem anyway. Our bill is in no way directed against animals. We demand responsibility for their masters. Because today, if, for example, a car malfunction has had serious consequences, the owner is responsible not only for insurance but also for criminal liability if there are fatalities. I think so. What's the rule?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u89	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u90	I think a rule like that should be set for those people who put their dogs on defenseless citizens, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u91	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Igor Savchenko, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u92	Mr. Chairman, the country's distinguished national deputies, the honourable present, your opinion is suggested to consider a draft Ukrainian law amending Ukraine's Criminal Procedure Code to violate the order of pets, dogs. [[Registration number 5126]] The project proposes to address the issue of liability for disturbances in the order of hatching of domestic dogs, which has been the cause of the animal’s task of causing bodily harm to surrounding animals. After discussing the bill, Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the committee testified that in his preparation the authors of the legislative initiative had taken into account the comments made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Concluded to the previous version of this bill, dated September 14, 2009. National MPs of Ukraine, members of the committee consider it appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine to violate the order of the outbreak of domestic dogs on the first reading basis. [[Registration number 5126]] The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is of the same opinion. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in the first reading as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss whether we need to make a decision would be based on what the committee suggests. I'm voting on the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u94	What? So let's think about it this way. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin will speak and then we will vote, and Taras Crnowil. We've risked it. That's it, that's it. We've risked it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine. Dear National MPs, I am, indeed, very painfully referring to every draft amendment to the Criminal Code, but in this case I would like to thank both Heratchenko and Gerasimük for raising a very relevant question for society today. But I want to expand the boundaries of this question. Don't they have Bears today? And they hold the tigers and the rice, to her God, to this day that you may know and hold the dragons. So if we are, we're going to go this way, and we're going to put a new article in the Criminal Code, let's write it down as these are the animals that are kept at home first. The second is not only the outing, we'll talk, we'll talk, we'll keep, we'll keep the house, we'll keep the apartment, we'll keep it in the yard, we'll keep it in the yard, we'll keep it in the house, we'll keep it in the yard, we'll keep it in the house, we'll keep it in the house, we'll keep it in the yard, we'll keep it in the house, we'll keep it in the yard, we'll keep it in the house, we'll keep it in the yard, we'll keep it in the house, we'll keep it in the yard, we'll keep it in the house, we'll keep it in the house, we'll keep it in the yard, So don't worry. So there is a question and a very correct question raised. The only question is that the article needs to be worked out a little bit. If we were to now include the same snakes, bears, or tigers that would still be held, all of these animals, I think we can make the right changes to the bill. And I'm going to ask you to support this bill in the first reading and thank you for bringing this project up because it's bothering people today, it's biting people today, it's bullying people today, and they can't complain anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u96	Thank you. Taras Crnowil, then Andrew Pavlovsky, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! By rephrasing the famous parable, let us say: “Dogs are not guilty, men are guilty.” Each case, and cases are made just like those that are not included in the head when dogs are put on children, when there are fatalities, when there are terrible disabilities. And then because there are not enough clearly defined standards in the Criminal Code, people who have fed dogs or who have created conditions under which children may be affected in particular tend to be unpunished. I don't recall individual cases of fines of minor sanctions to be criminal cases on the responsibility of the owners of pets, even in cases where it was a fatal result or a permanent disability. As for me, today in the background of a generally very weak day of opposition, when, in fact, there were bills that were already duplicating existing norms or causing a smile of openness, it was probably the first project that was really just necessary. As far as I know, I've seen that the faction of the Party of Regions didn't plan to vote on this issue, and so I'm just personally asking Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov in this case to review his position. It's the first reading. And I don't know what the reason was. Raise your hand in order to vote, we may be able to correct some of the machinations in the second reading. But knowing the meaning of what a colossal problem is and how wild is not animals, that is, the owners of animals are already threatening people's lives in general, to give us the green light of this project. And they could finally predict responsibility for those savages who today, with the help of their so - called pets, abuse everyone around them. Please support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u98	Andrew Pavlovsky. Microphone. It's a BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u99	Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! What I'm saying is that even though I own a dog myself, I find this bill relevant. Because there are different kinds of dogs, there are dogs that can be considered a guard as a weapon, right? So we have a responsibility for weapons, and there is no responsibility for a dog that can bite a person to death. Yes, and it's not the dog's fault, yes, it's an animal. Guilt and a person who has not given a measure of parenting to his dog or deliberately to the bogeymen are trained by some cool boys. They put up their fighting dogs, they train on the bogeymen. I think it's, it's got to be, like, criminal. That is why I support Irina Heratchenko and Gerasimük. At the same time, I believe that not only should the Criminal Code be amended, but also the Administrative of these cases. And let's move on a civilized path, and deal with it as is being done in European countries. There, for these things, if a dog harms a person's body, it's a strict responsibility. And we have to go in a civilized way. So I propose, on behalf of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, that the bill be supported by all factions. Including the Party of the Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office supports this proposal. That is, the possibility of adopting a bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to violate the rules on the maintenance of dogs. Registration number 5126. Please vote. [[11:56:27]] For 382 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is such an offer. Since we have not so many questions left to consider, let's just get this over with, I think it's a matter of course up to 13 hours, and then we'll be able to get acquainted with the amendments to the Courtship and Judicial Status Act. There's no objection. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine. [[on consumer protection measures]] [[Registration number 4024]] It is suggested that this issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:57:20]] For 204 Decision taken. Thank you. The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin. The correspondent is the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u101	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I address you on the basis that every day you have to do something good for the Ukrainian people. In particular, the situation in the banks forced me to introduce this bill almost a year and a half ago. And that's why I'm surprised that a socially oriented bill in this case you want to look at it in a simplified way. The National Bank of Ukraine Act proposes to make changes that will help protect the banking system – consumers of banking services – and thus enhance the authority of the banking system as a whole. In an anti-constitutional manner, the National Bank has consistently restricted the right of consumers to use their deposits, which can also lead to a violation of the rights of consumers in the event of bankruptcy. At the same time, neither the National Bank nor the Bank, which provides consumer services for a bank contribution, are accountable to the consumer for failure or failure to comply with a moratorium on the satisfaction of creditors, the suspension of transactions in accounts, the arrest of the bank’s own funds in its accounts by authorized public authorities. Consumers of banking services, in particular in the area of participation of funds under a bank contribution contract, are not exempt from the payment of government duties on charges related to infringements of their rights, although they have the right not only to consumers of services and other economic operators but also to consumers of bank services. To this end, I propose to introduce the term “bank service user”, or a bank customer using the services of the bank. We also propose that Article 4 be supplemented by a new part of the six content: “The National Bank is responsible for the bank’s obligations to customers of the bank’s services in the case of the application of influence measures to banks whose activities are checked by the National Bank in accordance with the Banking and Banking Act”. Next, honourable national MPs are offered, or in case of failure.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u102	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u103	It is proposed that, in the event of failure or improper execution by the Government of the National Bank of Decisions of the National Bank Board, which are binding under this law, the National Bank Board was obliged to immediately address the Head of the National Bank, the Supreme Council, that is, all of you national deputies, and the President of Ukraine with their positions. Today, this requirement is not mandatory and can only be applied after repeated violations. Restrictions are imposed on members of the government and the Nutzbank Council, who cannot be members of the government, engage in entrepreneurial activities, work for co-existence, apart from teaching, scientific and other creative activities. The National Bank also commits itself to making public its acts, including those on the basis of which moratoriums are imposed on banks and thus restricts the right of investors to use their funds freely, for which it issues acts to the National Bank in accordance with the requirements of law. Today you know how many complaints we get with you at Nadra Bank. I'm ashamed to say something to 76 Tucko of Odessa, who writes that he needs money for the operation, and Nadra is criminally holding that money and not even giving it to a person for surgery.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u104	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u105	I propose that these banks too be included. Today, Nazbank's government is unlawfully issuing a moratorium on the activities of the bank and restricting the rights of persons, exercising their property rather than registering them with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, not publishing them on the official website, in official editions of the National Bank. The heads of Natzbank, his deputies, the members of the government are also being asked to ban loans from any other credit institution, because this is corruption around the world, it is acknowledged. Today, officials of the National Bank receive interest - free loans.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u106	Thank you. Time's up. All of it. Have a seat, please. Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Mr. Stanislaw Arzwethyn, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u107	Dear National Deputies! A year and a half ago, in our Committee on Finance and Banking, we reviewed this bill and we usually recommended that it be sent to you for work. Many of the standards that have just been discussed have been regulated by laws or laws during the year. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council also recommends that this bill be sent for further work. In addition to everything else, our committee is currently considering a new version, so to speak, of the National Bank of Ukraine Act, which was introduced by the President of Ukraine. This is the joint work of the National Bank, the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine, which has been defined as urgent for further consideration. So I propose to our drafter of this bill to join these norms. So the committee's proposal is to send for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Yuri Carmazin. Well, one of the factions can. And Andrew Pavlovsky. The faction can be written either “for” or “against”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u109	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I have introduced this bill as a general response to the citizens of Ukraine. And that's why I'm asking the question of the responsibility of banks to us, to those who are investors: to private citizens. I don't think anyone, even the lobbyists of the banking system that came together on the profile committee, would object. I also asked the blocks the question of what should be the declaration of income, securities, real estate by Nutzbank and the National Bank Board. We also offered responsibility for failure or improper implementation by the National Bank of Decisions of the National Bank, which are binding. You and I are a strange country, absolutely strange. 70 percent in one day, the national currency is falling, and no legislative body has responded to it, not at all. I propose responsibility, first. And secondly, I propose not to allow banks to disappear, so that today people who put their contributions there don't pay back that money, and they don't even pay for the operation. This is impossible! That I am forced to write to the so - called “Nadra ” bank today. And, head of government, Mr. Stelma, do you not care? Mr. Stelmach, I'm going to direct these complaints to you people so you can understand. Maybe you're one of those preferences that you get paid for, maybe you'll pay them for the operation? I ask you to uphold this law. Finish as much as you want, but don't lobby the interests of the banks – lobby the interests of the Ukrainian citizens who sent you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u110	Andrew Pavlovsky, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u111	Dear compatriots, there are now many reports that the government has reached agreement with the International Monetary Fund, agreed to unacceptable conditions that discredit the social and social services of our citizens, such as: a 5-year increase in pensionable age, a 50-percent reduction in the payout of working pensioners, a sharp rise in housing prices, a reduction in the benefits of certain categories of citizens, the same neighborhoods. At the same time, I'd like to draw attention to what is being pointed out by those banking professionals who are now in the hands of the population in excess of the dollar terms of the amounts that we are asking international monetary organizations to pay. So we have to make this money go back to the banking system, and this blood, the money of the economy, then work for our industry, for the benefit of the people. The rights of consumers of banking services must be guaranteed. I mean rights, first of all, of individuals. Because they're actually illegal in front of banks right now. If you look at the contracts, they are. And the client bank, if it's a natural person, is always wrong. I think we need to support the Karmazin bill and support, first of all, ordinary citizens. And it's important that the bank's management, in the event that the same deposits don't return, will be responsible if this failure is due to the fraud of the same bank's management. And I think that's fair, and that requires the restoration of social justice in our country. So I would like to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as the basis of the draft Law. On the basis of the Rules, I have to lay the groundwork for the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine. [[on measures and protection of consumer rights]] At the same time, I would like to inform you that the decision of the committee is to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative. The main scientific and scientific management is also of the same perspective. That's all, and then you're determined, dear colleagues. I'm betting on a draft Law 4024 to be adopted as a basis. [[12:09:04]] For 121 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the bill. [[Registration number 4024]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:09:29]] For 122 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The factions? Please. Region Party – 0, "Club of July Timoshenko" – 98, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 23, communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 1, non-fractional – 0. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the monitoring of financial transactions of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State. [[Registration number 4204]] I'm voting on a motion to review the bill for a reduced procedure. [[12:10:17]] For-195 Decision taken. Rapporteur, National Deputy of Ukraine Hennaday Hennadiovich Moskal, co-rapporteur, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Stanislav Mihajlovich Arzvetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! I've heard a lot of criticism for the previous, but respectfully, why are those bills that were still being drafted in 2008, and where have they been to this day? This bill deals with improving the monitoring of financial transactions of persons authorized to perform the functions of the state, starting with the President of Ukraine, ending with civil servants of categories I and II, this does not affect the ordinary citizens of Ukraine. Because everyone in Ukraine today says that money from the village is gathering in the area, from the area is moving to the area, from the area to the Kiev area, so where they are staying in Kiev. In order not to sit in the hands of those authorized to perform functions of the State but to sit in the treasury and draft the bill. I understand that there are interests here, starting with the President of the State, all the courts, the prosecution, the national deputies, the prime minister and the judges, and so forth. That's why I'm not counting on coalition support because it's primarily about who's in office today. But, Your Honor, one of the deputies today said that the President had issued an order that should be followed. Thus, the decree on the fight against corruption, the first two decrees and the eradication of poverty were issued by the President. Neither poverty is overcome in the state nor corruption is overcome, nor is there a bill for improvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u114	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u115	You don't want to vote. I realize that there are some inadequacies, but it was fulfilled in 2008. So I'd like to take it as a base, and then add it to the second reading, taking into account your suggestions. Yes, corruption must be tackled radically, without radical measures and radical bills, no one can overcome corruption in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u116	Mr. Arzvetin Stanislav Mikhajlovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, if you've pointed out that most of the proposals are related to the financial monitoring of various operations and for this reason, you know, we've actually adopted a new edition of the Maintenance Act, where many of these proposals are being resounded there too. But at our meeting, of course, we have considered this bill and we suggest that it be rejected. The same is true of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption and other state bodies. So our committee's proposal is to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! If there is a need to discuss a bill, please register. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. National Deputy Peace faction of the Party of the Regions and Kulczynski. Stanislaw Arzewityn if Kulczynski gives you the right to speak. Microphone, please. He's giving up the word. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u119	Dear National Deputies! In this bill there are many, of course, proposals that do not apply to our administration, but to the Committee on Crime Control. So they did, and I reported that they didn't support this bill. And with regard to our committee, we've considered that, for example, the IMF and the CSB and other law enforcement agencies have the opportunity to suspend bank accounts. Well, first of all, it's a direct violation of the Constitution, because it's the right of people's property, this time. Secondly, there are rules that allow such a situation to be halted, and you know, the Law on Determining Control determines that they have the right to stop for five days in a bank account, two days in a banking institution, and therefore seven days enough to suspend this property, and determine for one or another operation. And finally, there's another option: a court decision, if you have to pause, make a court decision and block the cost of our citizens in that way. It's about opening a special account. In line with this bill, which almost everyone falls under, so I looked at our government officials in the 1st and 3rd ranks, they need to open up special accounts in banking institutions that will store funds. However, the terms that are defined are difficult to interpret normally, for example, in connection with the performance of the corresponding functions of the State. I don't know how a banking institution can adjust like this, so it's impossible to do this from a technical point of view. So in fact, we're getting out of this and we're rejecting this bill and we're asking you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u120	Yuri Carmazin, microphone, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National MPs, among other things, this is the best law that we've considered in the fight against corruption over many years, it's really meant to stop, it gives authority to the special organs that you have today in the coalition: both the Security Service and the Unit to Fight Organized Crime and Corruption. But you can stop for three days of counting, stop only if you know it's corrupt, it's stolen money, and so on. This time, especially at the added value tax, which now, you know how and how much there was. That's the first one. The other one. This law is aimed at preventing corruption among the state's top officials: both the President, and the Prime Minister, district council deputies, city councils, all of us. He also makes it possible to commit others to the declaration. I would ask you, don't just throw out this law, vote, support the first reading, work on it, make the fuses, and let them work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, please, Michael Chechchev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, it is a pity, of course, that the law is good, written for two years, but was not required by the past authority. Why wasn't there, it doesn't make sense, although the law is good. But on the other hand, there is the effect of moral aging. We have moved forward for two years, there has been a new progressive power, new legislation, new economic and legal realities. Hence, the law is somewhat outdated. Therefore, the correct reasoning was Mr. Arjevitina. I think that the relevant law will be prepared by the Government in this context, and it will be introduced, which will be no longer outdated, adequate to today's realities, and we will vote in favour of it. And here we only regret to say to Mr. Moscal that in two years he was knocking in the cabinets of the former government and, unfortunately, he was not heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, the opinion of the committee on this bill is negative, he suggests that it be rejected. The main scientific and scientific management holds that opinion. At the same time, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, have put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the monitoring of financial transactions of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State. [[Registration number 4204]] [[12:19:48]] For-26 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second motion for re-reading the draft law. [[Registration number 4204]] [[12:20:12]] For 111 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, at the time of the review of the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Construction and Housing. [[on the protection of the rights of investors in housing]] [[Registration number 4426]] At the same time, there is a letter from the author of the bill requesting that the matter be reconsidered, in view of the need for further development. Since the project has received proposals and comments from investors and construction companies, it is also in connection with the decision of the profile committee to send a draft bill. I am voting on the proposal to postpone the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Construction and Housing. [[on the protection of the rights of investors to housing]] Please vote. [[12:21:32]] For the 320. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am now announcing the draft Law amending article 4 of the Law on Joint Investment Institutions. [[on enhancing the efficiency of investment activities of joint investment institutions]] Registration number 4668. The author is Ukraine's national deputy, Bilozoz Oksana. At the same time, the author of the bill asks for a decision to withdraw and withdraw the bill in view of its need for serious work. I'm voting on a motion to withdraw from the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Joint Investment Institutions on Withdrawal. [[12:22:53]] For 319 Decision taken. Yes, dear fellows, we are now moving on to a second reading of the bill. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on licensing of certain types of agricultural activity is being announced for consideration. Registration number 6153. Second reading. Natalia Yuriovna, where's the chart? Please, let's work. Bill 6153. No, you gave me 6265. Synchronising folder failed: %s: %s Dear colleagues, table 6153 is missing. There's a table for Bill 6265 and the next Bill 3224, and there's no table either. Let's think about 6265, because there's no table to those laws. So Bill 6153 isn't ready, is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u125	6153 is important, but we need to clarify with Apparat.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u126	You don't have to go to the Apparatus, you don't have a license plate. Natalia Yuriovna, only a table was given to Bill 6275. So I have a proposition, let's start with Bill 6265. Now, please, the secretariat, find out what is wrong with Bill 6153. Do you have a deal?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u127	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Today we are considering on second reading a bill relating to the introduction of a declaration principle. Under this principle, an entity may engage in activities without obtaining a permit document. It shall inform the administrator or the relevant authorising authority of compliance with its logistic framework with the requirements of the law. With the entry into force of the Law on the Authorisation System in the field of economic activity, operators have the right to carry out economic activities on a declarative basis. That was a serious step forward. To date, however, only some licensing authorities have agreed to apply this principle. Most licensing authorities, however, consider the introduction of the principle to be inappropriate and on the ground to manually block the introduction of the principle and to block the implementation of the Law on the Authorisation System in the field of economic activity. Project 6265 establishes that an economic operator is entitled to an economic activity or an economic activity on the basis of a declaration without obtaining a permit document. You are well aware that in doing so, we are fully reorganizing the authorizing system and the most corrupt system in our country. This is the most serious reformist, deregulation law. We deregulation of the entire permit system that works today, which blocks and is the main barrier to business development in Ukraine. The Committee requests all members of the people to support the bill. Because this is a serious and big step forward. This bill has been drafted jointly with almost all political forces in Parliament, together with Goskom Entrepreneurship, with small businesses, with representatives of the public. We believe that such a step will enable us to significantly improve our global ratings and will greatly help our entrepreneurship today to feel protected from the enormous pressure of officials, which today comes from small and medium-sized businesses largely. And we very much hope that this bill will be one of the major reforms in Parliament. It is a reform of deregulation that many policies speak of. Many reformers promise, but unfortunately no one has. Therefore, it is a great request to support the bill. A table of amendments to the second reading has been prepared, which takes into account mainly all the proposals of the amendment authors. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we ask you to accept it. The only thing that happened was a technical error in Amendment 9 of People's Deputies Lapin and Royal, which was a purely technical mistake. And we ask there to change the word “hazards” to “hazards”. That's the only comment we've just seen in the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Let's get some repairs. The first one is counted. Yes, everyone, all the adjustments are taken into account. Which of the authors insists? You don't? Yes, there is. Carmazine, please. Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u129	Dear Adam Ivanovich! The law is, of course, necessary, good. And let's thank both the Royal and the Lapin for their offer. But there is one thing, so that we don't lose this law because of the conclusion of the Chief Legal Authority, which made a remark that I immediately saw in the Final Positions. At the end of the first reading and in the second reading, the provision remained: “The laws at other legal acts adopted to take effect by this law operate in a part which does not conflict with this law.” This is contrary to the Constitution and therefore to the approach we have adopted here with you in the creation of laws. Therefore, I believe that, Adam Ivanovich, this paragraph must be deleted, and the law must be voted on and counseled by our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, it's a perfectly fair observation by the Chief Legal Authority. That's the first one. The other one. Sadly, in recent times, almost every law has been followed by such a standard. And fortunately, the Supreme Council has not yet missed out on such a formulation. That is why I propose and now let us rule out the latter part of the Final Regulations, which states: “The laws and other legal acts adopted to take effect by this law act in a part that does not conflict with this law.” Let's vote to get this rule out of the law. Please vote. [[12:30:20.]] For 290 Thank you. And I take this opportunity to address the committee heads, so please don't write any more of these laws. Let's make this novel go away. No other comments?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u131	Adam Ivanovich, and the request, Amendments 9 and 10: the word “hazard” should be changed to the word “hazard”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u132	What the transcript said is, let's take into account, there's a "hazard" there needs to be a "hazard" inserted "hazard". With such amendments, and with the deletion of that norm in part two of the Final Regulations, I am voting on the adoption of the whole bill of Bill No. 6265 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. [[on the implementation of economic activities on the basis of a declaration]] Please vote. You don't have any amendments, I can't wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u133	I congratulate all my colleagues. Thank you very much. This is indeed the most serious step, a huge reform that we have made today. [[12:31:29]] For 272 Once again, my fellow believers, on second reading, have the word of those who have made amendments. That's one thing. The other one. There's no voting motive in the Rules, so the word of Pud, but let you know for the future. Sit down, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u134	Adam Ivanovich, it is very difficult for me to argue with you because you are an experienced person in this field of the Rules, but I can tell you that we needed to resolve and conclude our legal administration, which wrote clearly and clearly: “The bill needs to be finalized and reintroduced for a second reading.” And he's got nothing to do with fighting a civil servant. This is a lobbyist bill, and you broke the Rules, you failed to express your point of view to the MP. And I'll tell you that you've done no good in settling matters, but damage. We are deregulation of what is now in force in the field of economic activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u135	Well, first of all, we've taken into account what was said by the scientific, more faithful Chief Legal Authority, and second of all, the author of the bill and the head of the committee is quite close. Thirdly, you represent one faction, fourthly, you define the relationship between each other. Dear colleagues, we should be looking now, we've already moved 6153 more faithfully, but there's no table, we wait a minute, as soon as the table comes, we'll be working on it. The following Bill No. 3224 of the Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities. There is a letter from a committee signed by the Royal, which reports that the bill is currently not prepared for second reading and therefore requests that it be moved. next plenary week. In short, I'm putting forward a motion for a committee to move the bill to 3224. Please vote. [[12:34:19]] For 259. We've moved on. I repeat, just moved. Natalia Yuriovna! Natalia Yuriovna, we carried him as ready as possible. You will be ready on Friday. If you're ready, we'll look into it if you're ready. Yes, since the table is not yet available, let's go to Bill 5044, the National Military Memorial Cemetery Act. The Koleschenka project. Please. In summary, I propose that the bill be considered. Please vote. [[12:35:12]] For 204 Offer supported. Please, Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u136	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! This year, the entire Ukrainian people celebrated the 65th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders. The peoples will honor their sons' memory in the military memorial tombs: the American people in Arlington, the Italian people in Milan, the Israeli people in Jad Wa-Shem Memorial, the Russian people in the Federal Military Memorial Cemetery, and so on. Unfortunately, we don't have one. In the military memorial tombs there are burials of veterans of World War II, wartime participants, military officials, citizens who have committed heroic acts in the name of the people, deserving statesmen, and individuals who have special merit in the eyes of the state and members of those families. Meanwhile, in Ukraine as a whole, and in particular in the city, the burial of war veterans — members of the fighting, members of the military and members of their families — is taking place in a systemless manner and in violation of legislation. Many instances of ignoring the requirements of Christian law and morals by the authorities regarding the proper veneration of a veteran of war after his death and the provision of financial assistance to the family. Veterans’ organizations have received numerous complaints from families of war veterans and military officials, members of combat efforts to demand bribes for burial sites. A common burial with family members is not at all a matter of concern. In accordance with article 7 of the Ukrainian National Security Act, this state of affairs threatens Ukraine's national interests and national security in the internal political and military spheres. That's why it's suggested that we support the idea -- and suggest that we create a National Military Memorial Cemetery, first in Kiev, and then we can do that in the regions. Only in the project you have in mind that the project was being prepared for about a year should you make the additions that are available and that have been offered. Add to the representatives who will deal with this issue, the State Committee on Veterans and predict in the State Budget, not in 2010, but in 2011.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u137	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u138	for 2011, the next funding for this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u139	Thank you. Have a seat. Please, from the committee. Squibney Alexander Matviyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, the National Security and Defence Committee has considered the bill and has suggested that it be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u141	Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. Yes, Yuri Baldirev, please. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u142	I give the dry word to the dry one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u143	Please, Jaroslav Suhi. No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u144	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine”. The question raised is, of course, of great importance to the people’s honourable deputies. I'd like us to take less care, really, of funerals and more care for war veterans, of Afghan war participants, of other military conflicts today, even though the guarantees provided for by legislation are guaranteed. Instead, we don't yet. This is not ensured by the State Budget Act. As a result, I feel that this decree should be adopted and made by law. And not only do we need to talk about what some place defines, for example, the Arlington Cemetery in the United States, where about 250,000 people are buried. Obviously, not only in the place of business but how to do so, at what cost these deserving people and their attitude toward them. This includes military personnel. I think in the form of a decree, it's a wrong approach to this normative act, it's to be made in the form of a law, and it's to be extended a lot to the limits of this subject, the subject matter of this bill. Because it is only recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers create an organ committee and define the Ministry of Defence as the defining agency for the development and implementation of preparatory measures. In fact, it is a purely governmental problem, a serious problem, a problem of attitude toward veterans, to disabled people, to all deserving people. So I suggest that we do this in the form of two readings and in the form of a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u145	Thank you. Question completed. I put to the vote a proposal supported by a professional committee, including the adoption of a decree on the National Military Memorial Cemetery. Registration number 5044. Please vote. [[12:41:15.]] For 242 Decision taken. Please prepare this draft decision quickly for the second reading. We should now consider Bill 5425, the draft Law on Greenhouse Gas, but there is a letter from the committee of profile signed by the committee head of Seminogue, to withdraw this bill from consideration. I'm voting on the motion to withdraw bill number 5425, draft law on greenhouse gases. Please vote. [[12:42:05]] For 323 The bill has been removed. And please, where's the Queen? Please, Bill 6153, on amending some Ukrainian legislation on licensing for certain types of economic activity. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Today we have a business day in the Supreme Council, and I very much hope that we will be able to adopt a second critical document that aims to reduce 12 types of licences. The Supreme Council has long gone to such a decision, you know, we have dealt with these proposals many times. We understand how difficult it is for ministries today to abandon such a fine procedure as to license the whole country, because every license has a mass and a mass of officials who are profiting from entrepreneurs today. The Committee, together with representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, together with representatives of the public, carried out more detailed work and discussed practically every paragraph of the bill. As a result, we agreed that the activities licensed in Ukraine should clearly relate to two types of criteria. Criterion number one is a major threat to public security and in one of the following areas, to life and health, to environmental security, State security, public security. In that case, the use of special resources is licensed for the purpose of certifying the company's availability, knowingly limiting morally questionable, public and dangerous activities. And criterion number two, activities related to access to limited resources, natural resources and artificial resources. In this case, use is licensed to limit the number of participants in order to maintain the pace of resource reproduction. All other activities that do not fall under two types of criteria are proposed to be excluded and not licensed in our country. We therefore propose to reduce 12 activities. First. Manufacture of precious metals. Second. Manufacture of precious metals. Third. Collection and primary treatment of waste of precious metals. Fourth. Organization of totalitarians of gaming institutions. Fifth. The provision of goods transport services is proposed and it is proposed to leave licensing only for the transport of dangerous goods. Collection, collection of selected types of waste as secondary raw materials per list, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, topographical and cartographic work, mail transfers, simple and registration letters, tourist activities, physical and sporting activities, construction design and reconstruction of existing melioration systems, brokering of customs broker and customs carrier. We propose to exclude 12 activities from activities that are subject to licensing. The Committee has considered proposals submitted by the People's Deputies and the Committee has taken such a decision. Please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u147	Yeah, let's go get some work done. Number one, accounted for. 2nd, accounted for. 3rd and 4th Lapin counts. Carmazine's 6th Amendment? Declined. Don't you insist? Same thing as 7th. Yeah, 9th. Most are counted. But respectable colleagues. But respectable colleagues are one but. On May 18th, when we voted on the adoption of this law in the first reading of the Supreme Council, when we voted on the bill in the first reading, we made a decision that cancelled the license for the production of precious metals and so on and so forth. That is, what we adopted at the first reading of the Supreme Council, the Committee, contrary to the Supreme Council's decision, decided that it was superior to the Supreme Council and that in the second reading it re-set those standards. So as a result of a gross violation of the Supreme Council's decision, I'm taking this bill off the table. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u148	Adam Ivanovich, we ask that this question be put to the vote, perhaps the Supreme Council has reconsidered.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u149	Natalie Juryovn, I repeat, the committee has no right to change the decision of the Supreme Council, you have allowed it, and you and others will be science, the bill on this case is off-limits and is preparing for a second read. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. And please stop juggling the decisions of the Supreme Council of any committee. [[12:47:42]] For 238. What should be done is what has already been voted on in the first reading. Lapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u150	Xenya Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues! I want to point out that our decision was motivated by the position of the government when the government suggested that these activities be removed. I'm going to tell you that the government has changed its position, and today both Azarov and Tihypco, whom you love very much as a reformer, have reported that all these activities need to be suspended. Today, the government's position is even more than the type of license to cancel, the ones we've proposed and the other 12. Then what are we filming, dear colleagues? It's just that things have changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the decision has been taken, the Supreme Council has decided to prepare the bill for the second, second, second reading. Please, Queen, one minute and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, the Committee has prepared those proposals and is taking into account today in the table submitted by the People's Deputies and the Committee has no right not to take the proposal into account, not to consider the proposals of the People's Deputies. As a result of the amendments we have received, we have prepared for them a draft for second reading and therefore for second reading, now for third reading, that the decision of the Supreme Council, we will submit the same text because no other amendments have been received by the Committee. Nor do we have the right to consider amendments to the people's deputies. So I suggest, let's now, immediately and consider this bill on a read-out, why are we wasting our time?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-07-07-m0.u153	Natalia Yuriovna, then you don't need a committee, then you have to make amendments to any committee he wants, and you've looked at them here. Then why the committees? Committees to make decisions. You've overturned the decision of the Supreme Council by decision of the committee. What's the point of this? You were obliged to observe what the Supreme Council had accepted. Have a seat, please. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. At 4: 00 p.m., we hold an evening session, requests to those committees that need to hold meetings, please mobilize and organize them. At 16 o’clock, we will begin consideration of the laws on the judicial system.
