ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. And invite the national deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:34]] There were 400 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Let us welcome you and all of our citizens with the great festival of today, the revelation of the Lord, and wish all of us a strong spirit. At the same time, dear colleagues, let's welcome People's Deputy Arkallayev Nurulislam Hadjievich on his birthday. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, Tuesday 30 minutes are allocated for presentations by authorized representatives and factions with proposals, announcements, messages. I'd like the factions to sign up for an opening from the rostrum. It's a recording. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I join those greetings that are echoing today on the occasion of the great festival. And at the same time, from the last political event, from an event that has not yet been completed, I would like, on behalf of the Communist faction, to thank, on behalf of our party, those supporters of the Communist idea, which on January 17th, despite fierce opposition despite bribery, blackmail, false information, and anti-propaganda, cast their votes for the only candidate from the left -- for Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenck. Unfortunately, most people voted in favour of power, voted in favour of power, which cannot help but wear or wear people's shoes. [[sometimes in those regions to which I have a direct attitude]] In this regard, I want to name just a few numbers and examples. We have, as you know, fewer than 46 million people. But we're going to get out of 46 million people. So, according to the official figures for 46 million people this year, our Ukrainian industry has produced only 52 million pantyhose products, a little more than one sock per person. Our industry for these 46 million has produced only 18 million pairs of shoes. So it's not hard to figure out that one pair of shoes is 2.5 people. Not only is it not to wear, wear, excuse me, even undergarments, that's simply because the industry can't provide, because in the last year's mere lower trimming, the Ukrainian industry produced only 13 million -- 13 million pieces! - at 46 million. I mean, I'm sorry, it's three and a half people's underwear. I'm not talking about social pay anymore, I'm not talking about the level of wages, the debt on salary, the debt on other payments, the other payments and the underageness, and the failure to comply with the law that you and I have adopted on social standards. I'm sure and I'm sure that sooner or later our people will realize that we can't live like this and support the socialist alternative that our candidate has made to the presidents. And another point that characterizes today's power and its representatives. Dear colleagues, you recall that on December 15th, we worked hard in this session hall to protect one of the categories of the disabled, the category of people, namely the disabled, who are receiving from the state budget or with the aid of the aid of a car. The Cabinet of Ministers introduced a bill that was taken care of by the head of the profile committee, colleague Suškević. The idea of the bill was that if a person with disabilities died, his car would have to pay taxes that did not cost them if you wanted to leave home. As a result of the amendments I made, they were not supported at first. Then, I'll remind you, according to the transcript, at 11:59 on December 15, 312 people's deputies returned to my amendment, and at 12 o'clock in the fourth amendment, and I'm going to read it, what was it going to be like, voted 319 people's deputies. Overall, at 12 p.m., 342 deputies supported the law, which was based on my amendment that a car recognized as a humanitarian aid that had been used by a disabled person for less than 10 years could be transferred to the free possession of his family. As a result of the falsification that was directly carried out by the head of the profile committee, who must protect the disabled because he himself belongs to the same category. The words for “less than 10 years” and the most important word for “free stay in the care of the family of this car” have disappeared. Here are some examples of how power works. Here are some examples of how they rob, even destitute people. I stress again and again, so you can't live on, the choice of a socialist alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? You know, there was a tragedy in Lugansk -- an explosion in Lugansk's hospital, people were injured, there were deaths, there were casualties. I ask, first of all, the relevant committees to join in on this issue, what we must do on the line of parliament. And most importantly, I ask that you, your honourable colleagues, honor the moment of silence of the people who died in this tragedy. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Oleg Zarubinski is invited to the presentation, followed by Vadim Kolesnichenko, Sevkovich, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Respectable citizens! Five years of slogans and spells about democracy and the peoples of the world have ended in total propaganda. Elections, as a tool for the formation of people of power, as an instrument of democracy, by their content, by elections as such did not become, but turned out to be a buttofora and a cynical imitation of the will of citizens. It was a competition of money bags, money, not elections, not candidates' programs and personal qualities. Financially-industrial oligarchy groups have invested billions of money in their candidates in order to, after their victory, and in fact, win over the people monopolically and exclusively for their own benefit to use all the resources and wealth of the country and to square their billions of expenses on their highlanders, clearly, at the expense of the people. On January 17, it was obvious that in a poor society there could be no real objective elections, who would put the money in the electoral pocket, and who would have the result. And so it happened -- money made the first round of elections. I expect an angry and actually hypocritical condemnation of this statement, but it just confirms the correctness of my words: money made the first round of elections. What are the most important features of these imitation elections that have identified the results of the vote? First. The extensive and insidious use of administrative resources at all levels — from the highest central to district education, health care, to the JECW and witness — were all but silent, for today it is not convenient to talk about it. A number of meetings, including multi-thousands of trips and flights on service flights, cars, multiple direct broadcasts on state television channels -- all of this was done directly for the benefit of and for the purpose of contrasting to competitors, and it was done solely for government money, for the money of taxpayers. In addition, those who did so did not go on vacation and openly advertised their positions. For example. When the IL-62 only takes off once, it's equivalent to money for the entire area for spring-field work. The governor of the Plains Region is adorned with numerous white boards and agitates to vote for whoever assigned him to this post without being on vacation. The billboards of the guarantor of the Constitution continue to hang on January 16 and 17, when this is expressly forbidden by law. On January 14th, in Kharkiv, underage schoolchildren, at the direction of local education officials, are taking a 10-degree ice road to meet the candidate's corset. Another mark. Massive and widespread electoral bribery. Christmas gifts look like handing out food kits indicating who to vote for. Handing out the product kits under the passport fixation. Mass direct offers of voice money and the implementation of these proposals. The principals of schools for the organization of proper ped-collective voting will receive a monetary reward. Commemorating car distributions to disabled persons, apartments personally from the candidate at a time when they are government programs and all of this at a state expense. And everyone knows that, but they don't. And the third sign. Self-made legislative norms that serve as favourable conditions for voter vote manipulation and the shameless use of these options. So so much of what's already said that no one can argue is enough to argue that these imitation elections did not conform to basic democratic principles and did not reflect the real will of people. And then these pseudos won't give people anything in the future. At the very least, it would be appropriate to list the ballot papers in a transparent and public manner and to conduct a sample test to determine whether to vote by specific people. At one point, it is necessary to punch the supporters and the constituencies in the hands. If people don't want it, we're going to have to get used to democracy in Bernard Shaw's interpretation of democracy as an airball that hangs over our heads, and we're looking at other people in our pockets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u5	Vladimir Sovkovic, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please. Sergey Sobolev will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, on January 17th of the election day in Kiev, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, and Lugansk, a large number of Georgian citizens arrived trying to penetrate the polling stations on the day of the vote. The question is: For what purpose did thousands and thousands of young men from another country come to Ukraine without any documents without any status? Foreign citizens are forbidden both to be present at polling stations and to influence the electoral process in any other way. Of the people who tried to register, one and a half thousand people are unemployed and without a profession. Among them are only one woman, all other men between the ages of 25 and 45. Hundreds of them did not provide any survey data: Who are they, and for what purpose have they come? Presidential candidate Brodsky published on the Internet a conversation between Timoshenko and Michael Saakashvili, where Timoshenko thanks the leadership of a foreign state for sending a team to Ukraine. Saakashvili claims that fighting and vetting people came to Ukraine. What battle is Timoshenko preparing for, inviting thousands of foreigners to Ukraine, including hundreds of OMON fighters from Georgia’s inner armies? President Saakashvili claims that Georgian observers came to Ukraine at the request of Ukrainians and at the agreement of the parties. Our party, the Party of the Regions, gave no consent to the arrival of the OMON of internal forces and observers from Georgia. Not in vain the former head of the Georgian Parliament, the leader of the opposition Burjanadez called such a behavior by the Georgian authorities a rude intervention in the internal political situation of Ukraine. She called, and our authority is silent, and everyone is silent. In the Ukrainian media, discussions were published by Georgian high officials: Minister of Interior Merabishvili and head of the Georgian Parliamentary Committee on Security and Defence, Gui Targamadze. The Targamadze threatens to rape the city of Donetsk in an unnatural way, threatening us with war. I'd like these records to be included now. Can I turn it on?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u7	What records?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u8	Records of conversations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u9	Dear National Deputies! Just a minute. Dear national deputies, we need to. Additional audio recordings and shows need to be agreed upon by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Just a minute. Is there a denial? [[B in m in s a l in]] May I have your attention, please? I'll put it to a vote. Who is it that the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees to listen to the audio recording? Please vote, please. Only by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because the secretariat has no right. Am I going to be censored or what? [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:16:39]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Come on, please. Region Party – 170, “Julia Timoshenko Block” – 0, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 1, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 19, non-fractional – 1. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u10	Okay. In my own words, then, I'll be sure to tell you what's going on. In a conversation between the Minister of Interior and Gromadze, Gromadze says that there are planes loaded with fighters today. The fighters that President Alahaya gave them. Alahaya is the president of the struggle. There are 300 of them, and they can't make it to Georgia. He asks the representatives of July to send their planes. The second conversation between Constantine and Targaladze. Targaladze says that “if we are not registered, I am the city.” I'm ashamed to say that word. I'll give out all the printing, and you'll read it. Georgian says he's gonna take the town of Donetsk. This. It's unprecedented. Who's Targamede? Targamadze is the leader of the militias who led the troops of the Georgians during the Roz Revolution. And these are the people we were sent to Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] In this regard, the Party of Regions requires the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Border Service, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the External Intelligence Service to investigate the facts immediately; to determine the purpose of the citizens of Ukraine, other countries, to intervene in the electoral process, particularly in the Lugansk, Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk region. Actually, I'd like to pay your attention. Well, you can imagine that the Communists would invite the Chinese Special Forces, and the Party of the Regions would go to the party. For example, she sent Russian or Chechen special forces to Galicina. What's going on? What is one of President Tymoshenko's candidates doing today? Tymoshenko actually invited armed formations that could have calmly recruited weapons here, because the Georgians, when Yushchenko ruled, when our borders were discovered, when the whole crime was expelled from Russia, he came all the way here. And this is where the leaders came today. We were actually on the verge of mass unrest, on the verge of a state of emergency in the country, preparing a breakdown of elections. I think the whole country should know that. At 12 o'clock, I'm going to give a briefing, I'm going to show you both the records and the printing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u11	Sergey Sobolev, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Alexander Martinenko will be next. Mikola Martinenko, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, respected citizens of Ukraine! Let me welcome you to the feast, the feast of purification, the feast of Waters! I think that those hot heads whose heads are filled with information that has just been published will cool off after all that. What cleansing will give us this great festival. First of all, I would like to thank on behalf of Julia Timoshenko all the voters in Ukraine who supported her in the elections. I would like to thank all the voters of Ukraine who supported the democratic candidates and have clearly confirmed that the democratic path of Ukraine is irreversible. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, those elections that took place on 17 January 2010 have borne witness to the old truth: the most crucial issues that are being resolved in the elections are not just the question of which voter is voting, but this is also the question of the political technologies used in the elections. That is why one of the first issues on which the faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” insists is the question of amending and supplementing the Electoral Law in order to stop those technologies that involved the involvement of people who are totally healthy, who have the ability to participate in the elections themselves, into home forgeries. Our faction clearly advocates that all those who do not have the opportunity to vote at home will have the opportunity, according to the order that has been applied in Ukraine for all 18 years of independence, including in previous parliamentary and local elections, in previous presidential elections. When a person, if he is unable to vote at home, gave a certificate, whether a disabled person or a suitable help, and thus to a million of our citizens, there was always such a right, and there was no other basis for it. This would make it impossible for the facts to happen when thousands of applications were written in one hand in the district election boards by people who wanted to vote themselves, and they learned that these statements were written for them at the time they came to their home. It is this standard that needs to be changed immediately. Secondly, the rule that applies to the inclusion of voters on election day solely on the basis of a court decision, as has always been the case in Ukraine, in all previous elections, including parliamentary and local elections, makes it impossible for individual citizens to vote on several polling stations at the same time, which we insist on. And the last rule that requires urgent inclusion is the rule that proclaims the number of voters who have taken part in the vote. Because we have an unprecedented case where the Central Election Commission has not announced the results for nearly five hours — as many of our citizens have taken part in the election. And that was for one reason, because four areas: Donetsk, Lugansk, Harkovsky, and Zaporizka provided only 23 hours of information on how many citizens voted in these areas. This is a straight line to falsifying the election results. And these issues need to be corrected by the election law. The second situation, which is equally important, is that of the Central Electoral Commission itself. Under the Central Electoral Commission Act, each faction of Parliament should be entitled to representation on the Central Electoral Commission. Today, there is no such representation as “Vlodimir Litvina’s Block”. That is why we insist that a member of the CLTC be recalled from a party of socialists who do not have representation in parliament, and the representative of the Block of Lithuania was directly introduced. And the person who has reached retirement age should be replaced by the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". And the last. We insist on including a decree that does not require an additional vote, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. It's a removal order, eventually, from the judge's office, a man who's been in office illegally for two years while he's retired. This is the head of the Supreme Economic Court, Mr. Demchenko. Please include this in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u13	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u14	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Ukraine survived the first stage of the presidential election. But it was just a break before the second tour, which would be very stressful. The shortcomings of the current Presidential Election Act are discussed not only by national experts and politicians but also by international observers. For example, the head of the International Election Observation Mission stated that the NMO was concerned about the voter lists and the fact that they would be eligible on election day. Anxiety was also caused by the situation of voting at home. Thus, a second tour under the old law would endanger his legitimacy. Not only in the eyes of Ukrainian society but also in the perception of the world community. It is our duty to warn of such a negative situation, both for the internal political situation in Ukraine and for its international image. Any explanation as to why you don't have to do this is evil and unfair. Let's at least fix the situation before we finish the presidential race. Which of the two candidates couldn't win this election, he has to do it honestly and legitimately. Otherwise, it'll be Pire's victory. Once again, it is unacceptable that changes to the voter lists should be made on the day of the vote, thus producing thousands and thousands of voters of unknown origin. Only those who are physically unable to get to the polling station should vote at home, and this should be supported by medical advice. I believe that the Supreme Council should put this issue first and foremost on the agenda and adopt the law not only in the first reading but also in general. It's not just to improve the legislative base, it's going to make Parliament's decision, first of all, more transparent and honest; second of all, it's going to ensure an electoral process against endless lawsuits; third of all, it's going to remove political tension. After the first tour, stress only increases. About 40 percent of voters have to make choices during these three weeks. They voted in favour of those candidates who did not go on the second round. Fighting for these voters is the main content of the election campaign before the second round. But I believe that these voters are able to make their own responsible choices, the vast majority of these 40 percent are people of democratic conviction, they want to live in a normal European state. Parliament’s electoral rhetoric will not go anywhere until the second round, but for normal legislative work it is not necessary to wait three weeks before the elections are over, and the economy suffers both from the crisis and from electoral populism. We have no right to waste precious time; the Supreme Council has long been inactive. Parliament must exercise its constitutional powers, adopt economic and social laws. Many bills have been waiting for months, perhaps years. In particular, the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" makes its proposals for this plenary week: no politics is just a matter of concern. For example, a draft law that I've talked about many times about banning financial institutions unilaterally to increase interest on loans. I urge all factions to work on the country's laws. The Supreme Council is to be rehabilitated in a month of legislative simplicity; otherwise, after the presidential elections, there may be a turn for the extra parliamentary elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u15	Dear National Deputies! Factions finished speaking. With regard to the proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputies, I ask you to prepare an appropriate commission for Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's statement on the fact that a number of important points were issued in the law in preparation for the signature. Yesterday we decided that a special commission would be set up under the direction of the Chief of the Supreme Council, who would check all the circumstances of the preparation of the document for signature. And the results will be informed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the issues identified, please, one minute from the factions. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, respected voters. A few minutes ago, an unprecedented fact was indeed sounded, and unprecedented information was provided when one of the presidential candidates, Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko, brought several thousand fighters to Ukraine to falsify the elections. This is an unprecedented fact of interference in the internal affairs of Ukraine. And it is a pity that the coalition did not support the possibility of watching a film that would show, expose, dispel the true mask from those who are falling into the highest public office, and in fact have embarked on a shift in national interests. I therefore propose that we discuss this issue in the Chamber and, after discussion, put to the vote the question of whether we should watch the film and then take the appropriate decision that prevented the arrival of the militants on 7 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u17	Who else? No, after one minute, please, Oleg Easy from the faction alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u18	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. You see, the gentleman who is now accusing our candidate, he's talking about, he says they've been offering us a film here, so they've already made a film about the artist, and who's the director there, Steven Spielberg or Guy Richie, who's the director in that film you faked to fool the citizens of the country. You should make an honest effort to hold an election. Unfortunately, our opponents have failed. And it's an understanding that they're on the verge of losing and leading to these forgerys, dirty accusations and so forth. So I think that if there's any of those documents, if there's any of them, if you want to go to the Attorney General's Office, let her determine the origins of these documents that were filming them, maybe Mr. Michael's assistant director was. And figure out all of these nuances, and then inform the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u19	Yeah, who else from the faction? None. Dear colleagues! Attention, please, and so forth. Let's make sure that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not involved in the debates between the finalists of the presidential campaign, because then we'll go far. I put the proposal to the vote. 218 deputies voted. We didn't. So I have this request, please, a press conference, we have the "Council" channel, there is an opportunity to report on the information that each faction considers necessary. On the Conciliation Council, I asked yesterday whether the Supreme Council of Ukraine will work, or we will finally destroy it with our own hands. You know the trust. And once again, dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will not serve the interests of either one or another candidate. It won't. Let's work then. If we're going to consider the summation of the first round, there's going to be this proposal, we're going to put it to a vote, and we're going to support, please, let's take a look at it. And I would ask you not to push either side or the other side. A draft decree on the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5481]] The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on the Rules of Deputy Ethics and Ensuring the Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Skubashewski Stanislav Valerianovich. Please. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on 23 December 2009, the Committee considered and supported the draft calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was supported by the deputy factions: Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense Block, Lithuania, the Communist Party and the Party of the Regions, and decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the Committee's proposals. The draft calendar plan proposes to start the calendar sessions of the sixth session of the Supreme Council on February 2, 2010, and to complete its work on July 16, 2010. During this time, there are 13 weeks of plenary work: 5 weeks for committees and factions, 6 weeks for national deputies to work with voters and 13 hours for government questions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, made proposals for the project, namely: in February of 1 to 5, predict: February 2 – opening of a session, plenary session, committee and faction work; February 3 to 5, work in committees and factions instead of plenary meetings; and week 8 to 12 predict in plenary mode, instead of working in committees and factions. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider and support the draft decision. [[Registration number 5481]] Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u22	Everyone backed up, all the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u23	Yes. No, no, is there, like, his name of a national MP?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u24	National deputy Kamchatny, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u25	Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. I have great respect, and I say these true words to my colleague on the committee of Scoobashevski Stanislav Valerianovich. But at the committee meeting to report on the matter, the committee head was appointed. I understand that if the chairman of the committee for some reason failed to report this question, he should report the first deputy. So I have a question, Stanislaw Valerianovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u26	And we agreed with him, me. We agreed to the committee head, so there are no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u27	The first deputy says they disagreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u28	Yes, the First Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u29	He says they disagreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, there are no other warnings. Well, obviously there is a logic for us to open the session as required by the Constitution and, obviously, this will be the last election week, the deputies will work for their candidates and sympathizers. So let's take this proposal into account and approve the calendar plan. Is there no objection? I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the calendar of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. [[Registration number 5481]] Please vote. [[10:37:53]] For 411 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the issue of the release and appointment of a member of the Central Electoral Commission is under review. You know, the president of Ukraine is still 10.03. In 2009, he filed an appropriate application for his discharge as a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Anatoly Arkadyovich Pisarenka, in connection with his reaching the age limit that allows him to be in office. At the same time, we repeatedly asked the President of Ukraine to apply. I have to say that I had several conversations with the President of Ukraine, the last one happened yesterday, he assured me that if only the Supreme Council of Ukraine would release him, he would immediately submit the application on the same day. At the same time, a proposal was made to consider demchenk’s release from office as judge of the Supreme Court of Agriculture of Ukraine. In order to ensure predictability, yes, I will now put first the issue of the release of a member of the CLTC, and second I will ask the question of the release of a member. Judge Demchenko of the Supreme Economic Court. And you, please be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u31	I said my position on this matter. Dear colleagues, no objection? I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u32	What's that? Who's got it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u33	Ruslan Knazevich, please. One minute. Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head! I'm just reminding my colleagues that this issue has already been considered in Parliament. And, if you recall, then a hindrance to his positive decision was the rule of part of article 30 of the Central Electoral Commission Act, which, at the same time as the submission to the Supreme Council of the termination of the mandate of the relevant CEC member, the President is obliged to apply for another candidate instead of an outstanding one. And that's why we couldn't solve this issue and agree to take a time-out until the proper submission is in Parliament. I understand that something has changed during this period of time. I understand that there are claims of legitimacy -- illegality. But there is no need to substitute for a violation of the law. You can’t substitute for another, considering that someone thinks that one more is a violation and the other less. So if it happens now that we're going to release a member and there's not going to be a next application, that means we can't assign our own initiative until the President's submission is done and there's just a vacant seat. Whether this should be done on the eve of elections when there is a serious imbalance in the votes of the Central Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way, I ask you, let's do it this way. The president treats the law in his own way. He, one minute, I ask your attention, he tells me, "You're fired, I can't take the job." But I'm reading again. One court ruled that one could participate, and the other court decided that one could not participate. Let us, then, not allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be the cause of lawsuits. I come only from such a point of view. In the voting process, please make your decision. I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the dismissal of a member of the Central Electoral Commission. [[Registration number 4181]] Please vote. [[10:42:08]] For 240 Decision taken. I now ask the secretariat to address the presidential structures. I was told that the document was signed, a submission, so we could get it right away. And we immediately, I'd like to ask your permission to make a decision regarding the appointment of a member of the CBC. Now let's move on. Draft Decision on the release of Demchenko S.F. from the post of Judge of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine. “According to article 126, paragraph 2, of the fifth part of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to release Demchenko Sergio Fedorovich from office of judge of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine in connection with the achievement of 65 years.” Registration number 2605. Yes, there's a vote coming. Please vote. [[10:43:22]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I'm asking the faction leaders to hold consultations, and I'll put it back to the voting session tonight. We have to make a decision. I'd like to vote for everyone. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. [[on the non-permission of voter will]] [[Registration number 5509]] About getting into the daytime. [[10:44:14]] For 205 The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 151, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” – 53, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 1, non-fractional – 0. Please ask the factions for 1 minute to comment on this document. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please, or you will have someone from the faction. Peter Mikolaiovich? Who's it gonna be? From the Communist faction, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u36	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I think we have spoken about this problem more than once and have made our position clear to all, clearly, clearly. Well, where you can see it, it's just us once in 2004, driven by someone we don't know, more specifically, who we know, who we went to every day to change the rules of the election. Today, the first round of voting took place. We passed January 17 by one law, and on February 7th, some want to follow another law. Then let's take the changes to the law along with the decision: cancel the results on January 17th and announce the President's new election under the new law. Well, let's not make the world laugh to come back to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u37	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Olena Lukash, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u38	Respectable colleagues, respected voters under this law have several myths and several real circumstances. Well, we've heard a rumor for two weeks that voting at home on Donbass is going to be between 10 and 20 percent. The people themselves and the voices themselves have rejected this lie. Not more than 3 per cent of people whose mobility is limited voted. Apologize to those who call themselves Democrats and accept it as a lie. Second. Addition to the list on the day of voting. We were told that it would be so massive that it would completely distort the will of the people. These were isolated cases. People who went through everything: both commissions and courts. Apologize for the suffering of those people who call themselves Democrats. We were told that there would be a very small gap of 4 percent. But CEC finished processing electronic data, and the gap was almost 11 percent. Apologize to the people, those who lied, that the breakup is almost gone, and you win. Accept your defeat. Now listen to those who are truly Democrats: representatives of PASE, OSCE, ENEMO and all international.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u39	Please finish the speech for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u40	Thank you very much. They said to you yesterday: Do not change the rules of the game, do not change, do not be so naive, and do not be so hasty. Therefore, no one today will change this law. And ye shall tell the truth: for ye fear not the law, but the election; ye fear not the law, but the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u41	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u42	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, yesterday at the Conciliation Council meeting, I have already expressed our faction's position on this issue. And today it has been said that two factions have themselves created legislative norms that lead to certain legal colleges, and they are serious. That's absolutely right. And so we suggest that those who have produced this law, those who have rejected our proposals, including our faction, to throw out these standards -- and to make it impossible for them to get together, agree, and be responsible for the law that they both adopted and didn't want to improve it. And the second question. It is important, understand correctly, that all participants in the so - called presidential race must be in one condition. This is the basic norm of any election. And so it turns out that those on the first tour called stayed, and those who went on the second tour with money were in different conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u43	Please, who. Pisarenko, please. It's a BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, well, to observe this holiday of democracy, I think it's going to be harder and harder to fit in with the second round of elections. You know, first of all, the Supreme Council has just finally changed the balance of power at least for someone on the Central Electoral Commission. On your way to breaking the law, you only made a decision to hand over the keys to the Central Electoral Commission of the Party of the Regions and one of the candidates. This will also affect the result of the counting of votes. With regard to voting at home, you know you can say anything, but if you don't want to clean the windows for for forgeries, please tell me why you need them? Then you have to be honest with the citizens, these windows are being prepared to use them in their own counterfeiting technology. In addition, I would like to point out that all citizens who today are unable to come to the polling station by their physical means are, however, already able to do so in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u45	Let me complete the possibility, please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u46	To this day, we've only offered to clean up the possibilities for counterfeiting. Why do you need them, you have to say it yourself. And thirdly, you know, today these issues were serious enough for the entire coalition and I think we need to hold consultations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u47	Please, Ruslan Knazevich. And with regard to the consultations -- that's very correct -- then the consultation should be held, not when it's convenient, or not convenient, but when, starting with the law on the election of the President of Ukraine, consultations were to be held, consultations were to be held. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u48	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u49	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, well, in principle, I can agree that these issues had to be recorded at the outset, including a bill that could be settled long ago. But on the other hand, I point out that all the arguments in favor of not changing the rules of the game during the election campaign, well, they probably don't apply exactly to Ukraine. Because I'll tell you from my own experience, there have been cases where the Central Electoral Commission from the media has learned that on the day of the vote, there are certain changes to the law that the Supreme Council adopted the day before and signed by the President, and that was the case. That's another question, how much does this answer, let's say, the Copenhagen popular election standards. But that is what happens in Ukraine. And if there are the authors of a legislative initiative that think that there are norms that are in a violent way violating whether or not, let's say, the popular standards of electoral law, it can't be a formal obstacle to us that seems to be not changing the law. Or we should reject the entire previous 18 - year - old Ukrainian history, when it was not the norm, but the usual rule: everyone tried the electoral campaign the day before.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u50	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u51	Adjust the law. So that's why you have to be defined from the point of view of today and from the point of view of the real impact of negative* of these norms on the campaign, not from the point of view that it's not possible to do this in front of an election campaign, because it's just a cynical lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I have an offer. Let us do this: I will now ask that this document – a draft amendment to the President of Ukraine Election Act – be sent to the Central Election Commission immediately and ask them by the end of the day, if possible, to be concluded, and then we will have the opportunity to go back to the consideration of this document. Well, let's give them a heads-up. Well. There's a problem. We need to keep an understanding. We need to consider making a decision following the discussion of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 209 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[about the use of funds]] Dear colleagues, we discussed this issue at an extraordinary meeting. Bill 3231 adopted. The committee offered to accept it as a basis, and Bill 4379 returned the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration coincides with the committee's proposal, namely, to be adopted on the basis of draft Law 3231 and draft Law 4379 to be redrafted. No warning? So I'm going to put to the vote the committee's proposal, please note, on the basis of the draft Law amending article 209 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, registration number 3231. [[about the use of funds]] Please vote. [[10:54:21]] For 361 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Change to Sections 14 and 15 of Chapter X of the Land Code, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 29.12.2009, is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Secretary of State Šlapak Alexander Vitaliyovich. The correspondent is the head of the Agrarian Policy Committee. Deputy Chairman of the Committee, Sergey Ribhuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u53	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 22 December 2009 the Act “On Change to Sections 14 and 15 of Chapter X of the Transitional Positions” of the Earth Code on the Term for Sale of Land Areas”. The law introduces an additional condition for ending the moratorium on land sales, namely, the moratorium. may be suspended no later than January 1, 2012. In the opinion of the President of Ukraine, this law cannot be supported for the following reasons: first, the continuation of the moratorium on free circulation of land could exacerbate the situation of effective use and protection of land, as well as the expansion of the shadow mechanisms of land secession, the increase in the number of abuses in the field and, as a result, the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens. The moratorium is said to prevent the land loss of modern Ukrainian peasants, but in fact the moratorium has given rise to a situation from which it seems to have been called to rescue. Instead of eliminating the threat of loss of property, he himself caused such a loss. A small plot of land with an average land share of 4 hectares can't be processed using progressive agrotechnologies. There are 20 or more land areas within the former entire area. Under such conditions, no seismics or soil fertility is to be talked about. Under these conditions, despite the ban on the sale of agricultural land, the land's shadow market has become booming, illegal schemes for its ownership. More than 10 percent of the land has been leased for more than 10 years. In individual regions, agreements have been made for 49 years. In fact, a shadow market of alienation has been created for the value of land. It is estimated that some consulting companies left 5 million acres [5 million ha] of agricultural land in Ukraine in four years. And the longer the market takes, the more it will flourish. The simple prohibition did not solve the problems of protecting peasants’ rights to land, but it did result in violations of legislation, deception, fraud, and abuse. Secondly, restricting or even depriving owners of the ability to manage their land actually means depriving the owner of most of the goods that could give him the right to own property. The ban on selling land means that the owner is unable to make a good profit from his property. This is especially so in cases where a person is unable to process the land of his own agricultural assignment. The alternative — the lease of land — cannot compensate for the loss of the failure to sell land because the rent rates are low. According to the State Committee on Land and Land Resources, most land leases, i.e. almost 70 percent, are made of rents of between one and a half percent and three percent. The main reason for the meager leases on agricultural land is the moratorium on the alienation of agricultural land, for peasants have no choice. The continuation of the moratorium will result in further damage to landowners. On average, tenants across the country will receive 260 dollars per hectare per year and no more than 75 dollars per hectare per year in individual regions. In fact, taking into account the average size of the eligible people, the State offers landowners a year to live for just one thousand dollars received from their rent. In addition, the owners of agricultural land now have no right to receive even unemployment aid, and in the face of a crisis, a large number of people have lost their jobs. Instead, allowing these people to put money from land sales into deposits will allow owners who cannot get a good profit from land processing to get at least 40 billion dollars each year. Third. Ukraine's Land Code for the completion of a moratorium on land sales is based solely on the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on State Land cadastre and Land Market, as proposed by law, stipulated that such a moratorium would take effect under any circumstances until 1 January 2012, even if the two laws were in force. Such an approach does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, which establishes that the adoption of new laws or amendments to existing laws prevents the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms from being narrowed. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its decision of 22 September 2005, in the case of permanent land use, has determined that narrowing the content and scope of rights and freedoms is their limitation. Accordingly, the changes proposed by the law under consideration are also a violation of the constitutionally defined principles of the inviolability of constitutional rights and freedoms. I would also like to point out that, in accordance with article 41 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to own, use and manage his property, the results of his intellectual and creative activities. The introduction of a new condition for ending the moratorium on free circulation of land is an additional restriction on the constitutional rights of citizens to land, the right of everyone to own his property. Fourth. Investments in the processing of agricultural land will only come after the market has been established. In Ukraine some 30 million hectares [30 million ha] of land is dedicated to agricultural work. According to just an estimated estimate of the experts, their value for today is about $100 billion. An example of our Polish neighbors shows that even in the free circulation of the earth, the earth is able to attract additional amounts of investment. To that end, they had, like us, spent only on processing areas, where they produced rapid and commercial results. But after the free sale of the land, the cost went to the agricultural producer. Poland’s agriculture began to develop in the full chain, in the production, processing, filling the internal market, and expansion to the external markets. On the benches of Ukrainian, Russian shops, we can see today a large range of Polish agricultural products. On the basis of the statement, the President of Ukraine proposed to reject the law of Ukraine amending paragraphs 14 and 15, chapter 10 of the “Transitional Positions of the Code of Earth”. [[on the time limit for sale of land]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u54	Please ask the reporter. Please, the Zarubinsky Oleg Alexanderovich question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u55	Dear reporter, I have this question, first of all finding that the intensity and investment in most countries simply does not depend on the form of ownership of agricultural land. No one can deny that Denmark, the Netherlands, Israel are countries in which agriculture is extremely high, at a high technological level with high productivity and so forth. And there's almost all the land in the hands of the state, not the black earth. Today, other countries, in France, in Germany, own 60 percent of the land of agriculture, in the United States in just four years 40 percent of farmers have been bought by the state, and they are doing so because now in the face of a global crisis, billions of empty money is going to go and it needs to be made. Obviously, someone wants them to be built in Ukraine. How would you comment on that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u56	Mr. Oleg, I only have one comment. In none of the countries that you've just talked about, the important and developed agricultural states have any restrictions on the sale of land by owners today. No, I'd like to emphasize. Another thing is, if the state considers it necessary to own the land today, please let it buy the land on commercial grounds and continue to rent it, the state can do so. But to ban the owner of the land today from selling his land to either the State or another effective owner, this is not right. And once again, there is no such rule in any of the states that you have listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u57	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u58	Mr. Reporter! Earth is a special resource, it's an economic resource, and it's a spatial basis for the existence of a nation. And that's why it's the last resource of the Ukrainians today. What you're suggesting means that let's not have any rules of the game, either cadastre or the Land Market Act. So let's not take into account that 40 percent of the pies today don't have a owner, but let's just run a sales mechanism. What does that mean? And that means that for today's stupid money, which is very large and very low levels of agriculture, agricultural efficiency -- that means the low cost of land. This land will be concentrated in the hands of a small number of people and we will have large landowners, the so - called oligarchs of the land, according to the Latin American version. And that's not going to add any efficiency to agriculture, it's just going to depopulate the peasants today, our Ukrainian land. And this will only lead to foreigners, not Ukrainians, owning the Ukrainian land. And you can understand why you don't insist on having one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u59	Dear John Alexanderovich! Here's what I'm being told, your faction colleagues, that we have long ago, unfortunately, a lot of land oligarchs, and they live very well in today's conditions of the "muddy" system, when the land can be bought anyway. Go to any region, it's easy to do that. I could count the three or four schemes that are being used today. However, given that it is the shadow market of a peasant who in one way or another disposes of ownership of his land, there remain three copies instead of a serious amount. It's different. I would ask you not to twist what I've reported. We have a rule and it remains: the full market for land comes only after the adoption of the Land Market Act and the State Land cadastre – this rule works. The President only denies one thing: against this rule being supplemented by a rule that, under any circumstances, let's say, we're going to adopt these two laws in the next session, we're very close to their adoption, but we're not going to have any transactions with the land until 2012. I am convinced that the introduction of such rules is all the more so that, Ivane Alexandrovich, look closely at the Earth Code, there are restrictions already imposed, and about the purchase of land by foreigners, and about the purchase of land in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u60	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to ask you, have you spoken to the president since the first round of elections? The electorate responded, including such a policy on earth. Maybe after the first round of presidential elections, the President's view of selling land, selling souls, children, parents, all that is most expensive in the Ukrainian people -- there's no more expensive than the land of agricultural destination, and it will never be restored. And an additional barrier by 2012, which we are still setting while the Ukrainian economy is in crisis, but also in crisis for the last two years, shows a serious increase in agricultural production, a serious one. If it wasn't for treachery at the WTO, it wasn't for the traitorous position of all of us when we joined the WTO, we'd been going at a completely different level for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u62	Dear Mr. Carmazin, I want to tell you something like that. I haven't been able to communicate with the President since the first round of elections, but I do like our President, and I respect him for not changing his position according to the first or the third round of elections. The president expressed his position on the free market of the land without being afraid, realizing that it was not very popular long ago, and repeatedly in all its public speeches. So I am convinced that he has not changed his position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u63	National MP Blackwolf, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u64	Mr. Reporter, in support of the President's position, I'd like you, after all, to explain more perhaps profitablely*** to the MPs, because many of them may not understand the truth, and many of them do not seem to understand that the earth is really a real commodity, just like any other commodity with a specific nature. But if we care about the people, we should involve huge assets in our economy, the ones that make up the land as an opportunity to invest, we could double the gross product if it were normal. And I'd like you to compare more to what's happening in neighbouring countries, in other countries, and show them how we can reviving our agriculture and the economy as a whole, because these are progressive proposals from the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u65	Mr. Alexander, I thank you very much for supporting the President's position and, in fact, you've only helped your thesis to develop what I've been trying to say in my speech. I would like to emphasize once again that my deep belief as an economist until the earth becomes a full-fledged commodity we will never wait for normal investment in Ukrainian agriculture. Yes, we have today an increase in the gross harvest of grain, we have an increase in gross processing, all that could be used today as an extensive way of developing agriculture, used. And then I'm pretty sure we're going to stay at 30 maybe 35 centimetres of a hectare until we finally change this fastening pattern that exists today in terms of land as a commodity that can't be sold. No investment in the village will come seriously, and consider that 85 investments in the agricultural sector have come into the processing industry because there is really a normal free market. There's practically investment in the land. the primary farming does not come to the farm. About our neighbors. I tried to give an example of Poland, there was the same discussion in the semester, the same argument. Poles, in fact, in a better way, are after what they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u66	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u67	When the socialist regime was introduced after World War II, private property was not lost to the ground, it was somewhat simpler for them, formally the land was left in the hands of peasants, but socialism was going through Bulgarians, Slovaks were going through, in all of these countries today, a perfectly normal full market for land, 80 percent of the land's property, but also a hundred percent of the land's property, it's normally processed in Poles, and again in our neighbours on the same land, the worse land the yield of hectares, I want to remind you, about 60 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u68	National Deputy Skubashewski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u69	Give it to Smithu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u70	Mr. Smith's National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u71	Dear Alexander Vitaliovich! Garbage, Party of Regions. Judging from the fact that the President is so actively defending his interests as he was defending the issue on the island of Snakes, you remember that when Ukraine lost part of its territory. If he continues to manage land resources, our peasants will lose all their land resources. This is my personal view of the matter. In this regard, I have two questions. Has President Yushchenko passed a bill that would make it impossible for the land to be moved to foreign companies? This is the first question in line with articles 13 and 14 of the Constitution. And the second question. Please tell the current head of the Secretary of the President's Office, Mrs. Ulyanchenko, as head of the administration of the Kyiv region, how many in the Kyiv region have been controlled by the oligarchs of the land, and who are their owners? Please name out of the 5 million that these lands make up in the Kyiv region. A specific answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u72	As for the first question. Dear Lord People's Deputy! Once again, I would like to ask you to read carefully the law passed by the Supreme Council. Read chapter X of the “Transitional Positions ” of the Earth Code, which clearly prohibits the acquisition of land by foreigners. So this is a matter that the Supreme Council has decided, and then the President has no sense of breaking open the door. As for the second question of yours. I would suggest that you contact the Attorney General with an appropriate formal request. I think he's more competent than I'm going to give you the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. From the committee, deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! When considered in the Committee of the Draft Law on Amendments to Sections 14 and 15 of Section X of the Transitional Regulations of the Land Code of Ukraine concerning the term for sale of land, the prescribed bill was supported by the following positions and arguments. The introduction of the agricultural land market is possible only after the establishment of a system of state registration of real estate rights and their limitations and systems of the State cadastre, which many colleagues have now asked the previous speaker. For five years the authorities of the executive branch have been sabotaging, otherwise you will not say, the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions. In particular, so far neither the single registration system nor the state register of real estate rights and their limitations and cadastres have been created. Attempts to introduce an automated State Land Cadastre system through the creation of a state-owned enterprise, the State Land Cadastre Centre, have practically led to even greater disruption of the state land cadastre system, which operated in Ukraine clearly but on paper carriers. According to the ‘Dergecommere’ management, I don't know how the ‘Dergecomme’ estimates it, because there are 60 percent of people out there who are no longer professionals in their business. The State Land Cadastre system can only be created in mid - 2012 even with the State Commission. The World Bank estimates that it will take at least another six years. Even those who want to make a lot of investments like that, and those who want to make a hole in our land, say that you need six years in Ukraine to bring the system to a legislative and normative base that deals with the land market. Thus, the extension of the moratorium until January 1, 2012, whether or not the State Land cadastre and the State Land cadastre laws will be passed. Lands are fully in line with the current situation. In view of the foregoing, it is clear to us that even without particular debates here, we have talked a lot about it, we need to overcome the veto and adopt, as it should be, this law once again, we will say, overcome the veto. The faction of the region has given me more to say that we support, we will overcome the veto, because, you know, a lot of things have been done by us in Ukraine say that people in places of despair when fashion today went to issue documents on property rights and land. So, even if one man cares about the land, that pie that's been given to a peasant in kind? Not highlighted. So instead, they give you paper and they say it's your land. It's not his land, it's paper. We don't even have an aerial shot. Today, whoever wants and gets a normal salary, he buys a navigator in his car and goes around the world on a navigator, all the way to any village, to any field. And we, the state of Ukraine, come on, open the market for the land, we don't even have the airport and we don't have the borders. You can imagine what disability will be among the peasants of the disadvantaged, who will start bordering and seeking, and where my limit. We've been through this before and not once. There can't be such a thing. After the investment. We've already invested. First of all, as 14.5 million peasants live in the countryside today, only 550 thousand today are more or less busy in agriculture directly organized, and 14 million are said to be unoccupied, unemployed and have nothing other than their own household. So today, when these false investments come in, which technologies are different, our people are going to be out of work in general. We've already invested five times as much sunflower as when they rob the land, when 50 percent of the gross grain harvest, by destroying the livestock, is exported at no cost when 60 percent is sown by grain, and instead of having the money of a good farmer, a blighted grain today, a worthless grain. This means that 60 percent of the earth works for damage. What budget, what pensions, what wages? Veto and only veto and order in a normative base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, are you familiar with the position of the committee? Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Oh, this veto is not being discussed. I'm sorry. I'm not discussing it. Dear colleagues, I now offer you in this order. The President's first proposal is to vote against this law. If the Supreme Council does not support the proposal, the second proposal will be from the committee – to overcome the President's veto on this law. Dear colleagues, the question is, we need to make a conscious decision. Yes, there is a warning that there can be no market for land because we have not yet passed the Land Assessment Act, that is, cadastres and the Land Market. But at the same time today, you know how the sale of land is done, and all the more so that everyone understands that the moratorium has been lifted, the land can be sold. And here the committee was right about the idea that we should get rid of the land. By the way, I have to tell you that there is a famous company called Geosystems in Winnic, which allows you to conduct the entire inventory with a precision of up to five centimeters, and we follow the principle of Step*** to order it more expensive. So it's obvious that we need to make this decision and calm down for the beginning of people, and then the next question is inventory and order. I am voting on the first proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Change to Section X, paragraphs 14 and 15, of the Ukraine Code of Land Sales. [[Registration number 3425]] I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to identify itself. [[11:20:56]] For-26 The decision is not taken. The proposal to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote on the Ukrainian Act on the amendment to sections X, paragraphs 14 and 15, of the Ukraine Code of Lands Sales. [[Registration number 3425]] Please vote. [[11:21:36]] For 275 The decision is not taken. Please. Wait a minute! From factions, please, from each faction. Please, which one of the factions of “Our Ukraine”? Who's there, Blackwolf or who? Roman Tchac. One minute! What? Put the results of the vote on the board. Roman Tchac. By factions, please let me announce. Region Party – 168, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 43, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 15, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20, “Afterfractional” – 2. [[reserves]] Please, Roman Tchac.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u76	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I don't understand what passion is all about here. To date, even before the adoption of this law, there is a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. Because the previous norm clearly stated that until two basic laws were passed: about the LLC and about the land market, the ban on agricultural land was in force, it was in force. [[cadastre]] When we adopted this law, we simply introduced it on a time scale. What does that mean? That if we were to overcome the President's veto today, no one here in the Supreme Council would actually be involved in the drafting of these bills by 2012. Dearly beloved, the land market is not just a sale of land. All the rules are written there, including the establishment of such an institution in the state as the State’s land bank. And that's why I think, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that the Supreme Council has now made a very good decision. We didn't get the moratorium, it's there, it's going to be until we get two.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u77	Let me finish Roman Tuck, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u78	Today, there is a moratorium, and it will exist. And all of these passions that come out here in the Supreme Council, we need to make it clear that all the restrictions that we're talking about here in the law are about the State Land Cadastre, about the land market, about the State Land Mortgage Bank. That's where our forces need to be corrected, that's what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u79	Thank you. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u80	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I want to answer to the previous speaker. We have three laws on the land market in the Supreme Council. So where you are, Your Honor, one of the authors of the bill, there is a permit to trade in agricultural land for the legal axis. This means to think people that through one iteration we're going to sell this land to foreigners. That's the first one. Second, why didn’t you write down in your law the limitations that are in my law? So you're consciously making a situation so that you don't pass laws without making arrangements today with cadastres, with the land, without taking possession of it where it lost its owner today, you want to start a trade mechanism on land and sell this land, depopulate the village, destroy, in fact, the Ukrainians in the territory. You know that agricultural production is ineffective today, it can't even feed Ukrainians today. What? Because you're doing everything you can to make agricultural enterprises, well, actually, degraded and the cost of land is minimal. And if the price of the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u81	Finish up, Ivan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u82	And if the price of the land is minimal, then the uncle comes with a bag and buys everything. So it is not necessary to fool people, but it is necessary for the land to be in the hands of a Ukrainian farmer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u83	Yes, thank you. Is there anyone who'll be speaking? I can't see. Please, Oleg Zarubinski. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u84	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, there's only one thing I wanted to say. It's not about the ground right now, it's about the territory. Because we're being pushed, Your Honor, to have Ukraine now go out on the market with almost 60 percent of the territory. I will read to you the conclusion of the “International Ellet” expert group in the “Climate Conflict” report: “With global warming and rising levels of the world’s oceans, the number of lands eligible for living and processing will be catastrophically reduced, leading to overcrowding and conflicts across the territory”. Once again, we're being pushed into the market by 60 percent of our territory. We should vote in favour of breaking the veto, and that's not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u85	Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u86	Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a very, very important issue for Ukraine and the entire population. Moreover, in Ukraine a third of the population lives in the village. You can't ask that without discussing it. There are rules and regulations that allow us to discuss this issue within the limits of the veto, and I propose that this issue be discussed. That's the first question. The second question. I call on all colleagues to overcome the President's veto, because this law will bring a conflict between the existing legislation that will allow the courts to make counter-annual decisions regarding the sale of land. And what Zarubinsky said, you know, there are very serious changes in the world, the climate change that destroys, in principle, the agrarian sector system around the world, and Ukraine is the lean part of those people who want to take over this land. So so that Ukraine doesn't lose its independence over the countryside, I propose, first of all, that we go back to this issue and, secondly, discuss this issue, and give this question a broad, so to speak, a voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u87	Who will speak from the Communist faction? Adama Martinyuk? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u88	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear voters, I hope you'll remember the story and remember how not once in the session hall and in the different stands, from the screens of various television studios, the Prime Minister and her political power said that she would do anything to keep the land from being sold. It was her greatest promise. Then let me ask you, what has changed? And it feels like what's changed is probably right for those who say that the land of Kiev and not just Kiev is owned by the clans of BUTU, and those who say that the biggest problem that foreigners are facing us are buying and selling land for agriculture. They no longer need anything in Ukraine. So BUT wants to deal with foreigners. I do not rule out that the thousands of Georgians who came today must also be counted on land. [[B in m in s a l in]] And finally.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, let's do this. I have an offer. I think we're going to have a lot of emotion, so I'm going to put the vote on the committee to work on Thursday. Dear colleagues, we will now vote on everything. Let's move forward. There are no 300 votes, I can see that. There are no 300 votes. That's why I have an offer like this. Vote the committee to work on the arguments and return to the matter on Thursday. I'd like to support this proposal. I'm putting her to a vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:30:16.]] For 308. Decision taken. I'm asking the committee. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, we have the right to refer the work to the Regulatory Committee, which the Supreme Council made in 308 votes. By Thursday, the committee, work on it. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act is being announced. [[on student self-government issues]] Registration number 1280. Second reading. The rapporteur is the Vice-President of the Committee on Science and Education, Davymuk Stepan Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u90	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Let me remind you that the purpose of the bill is to expand the powers and functions of student self-government in order to increase its role in higher education institutions. To this end, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, including the establishment of a quota for the representation of students in colleges of higher education institutions, to clarify the creation and functioning of student self-government bodies and to specify the spheres and directions of their activities. Now I'm going to point out that this bill is also timely, because our universities, higher education institutions, are moving into new self-government mechanisms. Ukraine's Higher Education Act, which regulates the activities of student self-government bodies, does not allow to some extent use of their potential. Therefore, the legislative imbalance in this issue has led to a number of bills during the last two calls. The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine was also prepared and approved at an extended meeting of the Government of Ukraine in September 2009, with the participation of the Rectors of Ukraine's leading higher education institutions, a new edition of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, which significantly expands the participation of students in the administration of higher education institutions. The committee supported the need to adopt this bill, which contributes to the development of democratic traditions in the higher education system and fits into the context of the Bologna Treaties. There were 34 amendments to the bill, they were discussed at a committee meeting and most of these amendments, or they are repeated, or they are imposed, and a table of these amendments for the second reading is presented for our meeting and I ask you to consider it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! The report is completed, and the committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading and generally as a law. The chief legal office made some comments there, but the committee doesn't think they're relevant. Any warnings about the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u92	Therefore, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote and as a whole a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on student self-government issues]] [[Registration number 1280]] Please vote. [[11:34:24]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 139, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 52, Communists – 0, Litvina Block – 20, non-fractional – 1. Who's for going back to the draft law. [[Registration number 1280]] Come back. [[11:35:03]] For 234 We're back. I'm now voting on the committee's proposal. On adoption in second reading and in general as a bill of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on student self-government issues]] [[Registration number 1280]] Please vote. [[11:35:40]] For 232 The law is passed. It is announced for consideration, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets. [[on the regulation of the order of amendments to financial services contracts]] [[Registration number 3524, 3524-1]] Reporters: Ukrainian National Deputies Dubil Valerij Aleksandrovich and Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich. The reporter is Arzvetin Stanislav Mikhailovich. In view of the large number of bills, might it be possible to consider the procedure shorter or not? FROM THE ZALU, NO.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u93	No, it's not. There's an offer I'm asking the reporter, if they agree, I'll put it to the vote. Who's in charge of reviewing the draft laws 3524, 3524-1? Please vote. Dear colleagues! On the Conciliation Council. [[11:37:02]] For 155 Decision taken. . require that the relevant laws be considered and proposed – there is another proposal, let's be like in all civilized parliaments – set a timetable and work until the discussion is complete. So let's do it this way. Please, Valery Alexanderovich Dubyl. And then Kirilo Borisovich. None. Please, Kirilo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Thank you very much for the opportunity to contact you with a bill that is very necessary for Ukrainian citizens. It's actually just one change that we didn't take into account when we passed a bill that dealt with the consequences of the financial crisis. We've taken into account that banks can't unilaterally raise interest rates for their customers. This bill did not include credit unions. We understand that banks' customers are one, and loan-share customers are our citizens who invest last. That is why we are amending the bill, first of all, to the Civil Code by the word “bank” to put “credit unions” and also the Act amending certain legislative acts to prohibit banks from changing the terms of the agreement on bank contributions and the loan agreement in a unilateral manner, which was adopted in response to the consequences of the financial crisis. It's a very urgent question, it's very easy. I believe that any people who support our candidates will support this bill. In any part of the room there are voters who are members of credit unions, and they're being raised unilaterally today by credit rates. That's why I'm calling on you to support this bill, and I'll be very grateful for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u95	Thank you. Mr. Arjewityn Stanislav Mikhailovich, from the committee. Yeah, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u96	Dear Head, my fellow Members, two bills have been proposed for your consideration. One bill that prohibits amendments to the financial services contract is the author of Dubil Valeriy Aleksandrovich, and another bill of alternative to Kulikova Kiril Borisovich on the prohibition of unilateral financial institutions to increase interest and other payments provided for in the loan agreement. Bills are designed to protect the rights and legitimate interests of financial customers and are aimed at promoting a single practice of banning changes to credit agreements. In particular, such restrictions are already imposed on the banking system. In December 2008, the National Bank introduced its normative acts governing the subject. And of course it would be appropriate to extend this practice to the entire financial market, i.e. credit unions, credit institutions, financial companies, pawnbrokers and other financial institutions. Today, our committee has also received many appeals from citizens who are complaining about a unilateral increase in interest rates. The chief scientific and expert board of the Supreme Council proposes that the bill 3524 should be rejected in the first reading, and the bill 3524-1, which more comprehensively addressed the topic, should be adopted in the first reading. And the decision of our committee. Given that Bill 5324-1 introduced by the People's MP Kulik Kiril Borisović prohibits financial institutions from increasing interest rates unilaterally, it is a complex way of amending the Financial Services Act of Ukraine and at the same time to the Civil Code of Ukraine. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the above-mentioned bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, please sign up to express your point of view, two for, two for. It's a recording. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski,
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u98	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, it has indeed happened that we should, frankly, put credit societies out somewhere, so, beyond, and completely put them in charge, on. Their functions have been fully passed on to, say, the board of supervisors, and so almost without legalizing them in all legislative positions. It was indeed a big mistake, and we know that today literally there is a wave of colossal distortions, artificial bankruptcy of these credit unions all over Ukraine. I just want to remind you that, let's say in the same America and Canada, where Ukrainians survived the very formation of these credit unions that were operating within laws that were very functional and helped, indeed, to survive the Ukrainian diaspora, and there's even, I would say, such a certain cult of these credit unions. We can talk about the fact that they were completely compromising themselves today. For example, the “Turbota” credit union, where the Ukrainian intelligence gave up its own there, let's say, pitiful copies, today, in fact, are also on the verge of artificial bankruptcy. And this is not just about "Turbots," it's actually running all over Ukraine today. In the same Kirovograd, where I am firmly established and where I am often, so is the credit union “Ukraine-Centre”, which, for example, can give credit, and then a few days later, demand that it be returned. Because of the clarifications that our colleague Kulikov made, the clarifications that we're putting in one row of responsibility for human preservation of credit links together with banks, the Yulia Timoshenko Block will support them. I think I agree with the previous statement that it is indeed possible to accept this bill peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u99	Yes, Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u100	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, this is a question that our distinguished colleagues, Mr. Dubyl and Kulikov, are trying to settle, it's not only mature, it's mature. Frankly, I'm a little bit surprised that they have to regulate this exclusively from other spheres of social life. I would also like to see that when bankers go in the process of breaking actual deals with their customers for their own benefit, their representatives in the Supreme Council also represent a certain interest not only in their own sector, but also in the interest of their constituents, because this situation has become absurd, the crisis is overwhelming, including the financial crisis on the part of ordinary people, and those who have serious financial gains are trying to minimize their losses at the expense of these people, in which, perhaps, under these agreements, the last money is left. So I think I should not, I think, do it in three or four weeks. I would suggest that because the two bills are not actually conflicting with each other and there is a positive decision by the Scientific and Experimental Authority regarding the Kulikov bill, perhaps we would take it not only on a basis today, but in general, because people suffer first of all. I understand that maybe the banks don't like it very much, but a bank and a client is a contract that has to be convenient for both. And I think that this banking situation is going to soon turn over, and actually it's already switched to the area of credit relations, which I think we're going to talk about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, which of the factions insists on speaking? I can't see. Please, Arjewitin and then Kulikov. Huh? No, factions have the right to speak for one minute if they have not participated. It's from the faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u102	Deputies! In fact, the bill needs to be adopted, but if you don't mind, I'll tell you why, just on the first reading. First, the bill really regulates a good standard to spread everything to the financial market. But there are things that are set up as contradictions. For example, a new terminology “status”, “legal status of the debt repayment schedule”, is being introduced. This is the first time in legislation. It needs to be prescribed. Next. The law mentions that some payments are also prohibited. What kind of payments? This has to be written down. Next. With regard to the prohibition of early repayment of part of the debt, the Civil Code, not the Financial Markets Act, and anything relating to the non-extension of the Act in previous agreements, as stated in the Final Regulations, should be removed. Therefore, these standards need to be adjusted very quickly to the second reading. So please let's send him out for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u103	Yes, Jaroslav Suhi, and then you. It's a Microphone from the place of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u104	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought it was clear that the bill was intended to protect our citizens, as all the colleagues who spoke to me about the abolition of financial institutions by banning them. And the bill of colleague Kulikov exactly, and rightly said to the committee representative, which is positive, you've broken two laws, and you've come to the conclusion of the tire one. So now it's clear that this bill, which is comprehensively written, is what it is that makes changes to the Civil Code of Ukraine, what we actually have to say, and we should have done a long time ago, I think, and I propose that this Bill 3524-1 be adopted as a basis in the first reading and in general. There's no need. Or then. Please, if the committee denies it, we won't accept it as a whole, but I think I can convince you. If not, then Vladimir Mikhajlovich will be asked to make a protocol commission to prepare him for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u105	Kulik's Kirilo, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u106	Thank you. I mean, there's no time to waste today, this bill was considered on the committee this summer. It's about a lot of citizens, it's millions of citizens, it's the investors of credit unions, it's people who invested money and got money not to buy buildings there, it's buying apartments, it's for the simplest things. So we have to immediately adopt this bill, there's no contradiction, it's not political, it's completely justified in introducing changes to the Civil Code and to the law. There's nothing else to offer. I propose to support this position and to adopt this bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go this way. I will now put to the vote according to the registration of these bills, regardless of what is supported on the basis of the second. The Supreme Council is to be determined. And then I'm going to put a second sentence to the vote, so I'm going to have to take a brief procedure, and let's say we assign a committee on Thursday to prepare it for consideration, because it's a very difficult problem. Credit unions have found themselves in the most difficult situation, including fraud, but also in view of the difficult financial situation. For when the funds were brought into the banks from the State, the credit unions received nothing. And today there are many problems, and there are usually the poorest. So I'm the first to put a motion for adoption on the basis of the bill. [[Registration number 3524]] The committee is proposing to reject it, but I'm putting it to a vote on the ground, and I'm asking you to determine how to vote. But what difference does it make if he passed the committee, so we won't look at him? Once again, the committee has reported two bills. [[11:51:13]] For 106 The decision is not taken. I now put to the vote the draft Law amending the Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services. [[author Kirilo Kulikov]] Please vote. [[11:51:51]] For 365 Decision taken. Now, here's a second offer, dear colleagues. Considering the importance of accepting it. I'll put a motion to the vote. The commission of the committee is to consider it tomorrow at a committee meeting and to take it up on Thursday in a second reading. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this proposal for Bill 3524-1. Please vote. First question on Thursday. The offer is very much heard by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, as always. [[11:52:37]] For 338 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have five minutes left. Then why don't we call it a break? I suggest that the break be announced for up to 12 hours for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u108	Yes, please invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on improving the mechanism for the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens in the conduct of operational and counter-investigative activities]] Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Sergei Grigorovich Mishchenko. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I ask attention so that I can explain the purpose of the bill. If we ask ourselves whether we should solve crimes based on operational-search activities. Yeah, we definitely have to do that. And it is clear that the constitutional rights of our citizens should not be violated. I just want to give you a few examples of how we are doing today in search of politicians, in terms of businessmen, in terms of ordinary Ukrainian citizens. If we take data from Ukraine for this year, in 2009, Ukraine was established near. Because you can't say the exact number, about 40,000 operational-search cases, where operational-technical measures have been applied. That's it. You know what it is, it's both obedience and supervision, and taking information from correspondence and communication, and breaking into housing, or restrictions. restrictions on citizens' rights, temporary restrictions on the possibility of exposing crimes. So I can give you another example, some of these 40,000. 25 grand. Some 25,000 were agreed before going to court, with the prosecutor’s office, or the prosecutor’s office, to ensure that these operations were carried out. The other 15,000 were not in agreement. After that, most of them were protested, and the court overturned the decision. So I want to listen to you now, what is the purpose and purpose of the last few years of using search and search, services for which purposes. I want you to read article 121 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states that one of the functions of the Public Prosecutor's Office is to oversee compliance with the laws of the bodies that carry out the search and search, the knowledge, the pre-trial investigation. We have the Criminal Procedure Code, this is article 97 of the Criminal Procedure Code, where the last part says that "the conduct of separate operational and investigation measures defined in the Ukrainian legislative acts is carried out with the permission of the court to agree with the prosecutor." The 97 articles of the Criminal Procedure Code clearly state this. What article 8 of the Operational and Search Activities Act tells us. She says that the prosecutor's office is reported after the court has ruled on the establishment of an intelligence case. So here it was understood that KPC is a mandatory agreement, 8th article of the law's operational and search activity, after the court has taken a decision. This is the difference: 25 agreed because the submission was made on the basis of a total of 97 articles and 15,000 went to 8 articles. [[Through the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Court]] [[so that you don't agree]] What's the matter if you look at these things. These are orders: against politicians, against judges, against businessmen, against everything else. Why? If we take 3, 4, 5 years ago -- and look at how many of these things went, not in the 97th article, not on her basis of agreeing that these are units all over Ukraine. Each year there is an increase, a trend, a thousand times and a set of things to be done. What do you want to do? To visit politicians, to visit businessmen, to see judges, and to have more information. Clearly, the last two years in connection with this opposition in the country are all very clear. So I urge Parliament very carefully to listen to this, which is clear that today, today, if we don't adopt the law, no matter what opposition someone in power, we must first protect ourselves, the politician must defend himself in this case so that without any sanctions on him. We did not have such data, there was no reason why the Head of the Supreme Court was heard when our deputies were listened to, when the former heads of the Security Service were interrogated and operationalized, on other matters.? If we do not think first of ourselves, of the people concerned, then of course we do. I'm not idealizing that if we compare the Constitution, the Criminal Procedure Code and the Operational Search Act, we're going to sort it out. I'm not idealizing, but this sleaghbaum that the prosecution can put before this case goes to trial, and look, and there's a politician, and there's an order, and that's why this case is sucked out, how we're going to answer tomorrow. So it's clear that these contradictions between the Constitution, between the Criminal Procedure Code, between the Operational Search Act and the use of illegal actions against our citizens, limit their constitutional rights. So what I'm saying is that we have to bring the system in whatever position we're in or where we're sitting. First of all, to think about the future, whether it will be here, whether we have a “aircraft” or whether we will have legitimate grounds to then, including the prosecutor who will examine the case, bring responsibility that he has missed to trial. It is clear, therefore, that in this case we must say whether we are in favour of, and vote in favour of, the Constitution and the Criminal Procedure Code, which is above the Operational Search Act. But I want to say the following under the transcript. We have one question that causes such contradictions between some deputies, and it's clear that if he doesn't clean it up, it can deprive him of the meaning of this law and the collapse of this law and the vote. Well, first of all, you have to take it on the first reading. Now, after consulting in the Chamber with MPs who are involved in the search and who have made their remarks, is the last part of this law – this is the amendment to the Anti-Investigative Activities Act, where it is also stated that these cases are to be agreed with the prosecutor. I want to take down the latest amendments to the Anti-Investigative Activities Act under the transcript, to remove all contradictions, so that we can read this law before the second reading, so that there is no violation of the law, there is no violation of the Constitution, and, in fact, we have adopted in the second reading a balanced law, the cocoa would be clearly stated that we have the Constitution operating, the constitutional rights of citizens are not being violated, we do not have any. We're not going to have a lot of search-and-rescue orders, we're not going to have any orders for these operational-investigative criminal cases. And that's why I want to do the transcript, if you'll let me read it. This is article 7 of the Ukrainian Anti-Investigative Activities Act, which amends the 12th. And the 12th. Please remove them from the law and vote without these in the first reading, without these articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, there is a question for the rapporteur. Please sign in. It's a recording. And now the name of the national MPs is on the board. National Deputy Scybinetsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear Sergey Grigorovich, it is clear that there are contradictions between article 97 of the Criminal Procedure Code and article 8 of the SRD Act. But at the same time, there is nowhere in the world to practice double sanctioning of search and rescue measures -- either the prosecutor's office or the court. This might contradict, better eliminate, by making changes to the Criminal Procedure Code. But if you go along with your bill, the court will have no right to make a decision without a prosecutor's permission. That is, the prosecutor has previously sanctioned that the court can take this up for consideration. And the second. What prevents supervision and prosecution from investigating the prosecutor's intelligence report within 24 hours of the court's decision. Give me an answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u112	Thank you for asking. As far as other countries of the world are concerned, if you read the Constitution of other countries of the world, the functions assigned to our prosecutor's office, the supervision of the intelligence agencies that carry out this activity, I don't have any Constitution of the world, I don't have any post-Radians, you have European and world experience. But if we take Russia, Belarus, Lithuania, Latvia, all the other countries, then there's the prosecutor's office -- one of these investigations, the supervision of the investigation and the supervision of the intelligence agencies. So I can tell you that if you remove this standard, you have to change 121 articles of the Constitution and take care of it. And if this is stated in the Constitution, if the CPC is above what the law stands for and they specifically state that this is an agreement, then there are no issues. And what I want to remind you is that five to ten years ago there were things that didn't agree, units, they came up literally two years ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u113	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u114	And now there's a tendency to increase it. Who else could have said a few years ago that there would be 15,000 cases in 2009 that disagreed with the prosecutor? Almost all of the cases, these units were in the country that didn't agree, but they were cancelling at the same time. Thus, out of 15,000 cases, most of them have already been abolished by the same courts they have tried, in protest against the prosecutor. So if we report later, where will oversight then be? Take out the D.A.'s department of intelligence and everything, and then you don't have to agree with anything, and the indictment doesn't have to be agreed in a criminal case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u115	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u116	Sergey Georgievich, I have no doubt to you. I personally support this bill, because we need to put order in whatever part of it, because the vacchanalia that's being created today from the search and search, with the Soviet Union, it's pretty close to being unacceptable. That's my first observation. I have two questions to ask. First question. Please state the figures that more than 15,000 have been illegally violated, or cases against Ukrainian citizens have been instituted, respectively, either a competitive or a commercial order. Please tell me who carried at least one. The one who carried the order. That's the first question. And the second question. Please tell me, is your bill or is there an increase in responsibility for unlawfully initiating search-and-rescue cases against Ukrainian citizens? And if so, please tell us clearly in what part of the article, in which part of the article, and how does it work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u117	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Today, there is the following rule that if there is an illegal violation of the operational and operational activity or of the establishment of the search and search on purpose, we have two articles of the Criminal Code: the abuse of office and this is the excess of the position, because the criminal case for it exists. So, relative to illegal criminal cases, I'm going to point out exactly this in the 2009 famous case. You remember when you listened to our deputies and the officers of the court and the prosecutor’s office, when a criminal case was instituted under the direction of one of the heads of the Security Service, regarding the fact that a person who did not have access to classified material would have been taking these secret materials out of the premises. Thus, it is clear that a criminal case was immediately violated. You know I was looking for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u118	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u119	There's also a criminal case pending, but you're looking for an example of one of the heads of the Security Service against the MPs, and against the prosecution's employees, there was a falsified, fabricated search and search case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u120	National Deputy Skubashewski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u121	Pass it to Vernidub.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u122	Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u123	Dear Sergey Grigorovich, the chief figure in granting permission to carry out operational and technical measures in the bill, you're placing the prosecutor, not the court. And from the point of view of improving prosecutorial supervision, that's kind of normal, and from the point of view of preventing violations of citizens' constitutional rights, I'd like to ask this question. In the bill, I do not see such a clear indication that when the prosecutor refuses to grant permission, in agreement, he has a subject, he has the right to appeal to the court, as it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u124	Thank you for asking. Ivan Vasilovich, you know that nobody by this law 97 does not change the Criminal Procedure Code in this article and in the eighth article of the Operational Investigations Act, it is clearly stated that permission for operational and technical measures is made by the court and not by the prosecutor. The D.A. only exercises his consent. Your point is that if you disagree with this action and you have the right to continue to put an operative into action without consent, then I would urge that we now vote on it in the first reading. This observation that you said, we can introduce into the Operational Search Act in the second reading, and. I'm not asking you to accept him as a whole. Clearly, then, there are questions that we can improve to our second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u125	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Sergey Grigorovich! Thank you so much for going on this subject at all. Thank you very much. Because you have raised a colossal layer of problems, but even in this law you are now saying "a", you are forced to say "b" without actually doing anything. And I'd like you to know that the last name you said already bought the case, don't worry! Nobody's hiding anywhere. [[I'm talking about Durdink.]] It's bought fine. No one was responsible for the 15,000. Nobody! Seven spies, seven spies, and 40,000 cases were found in the country — this ratio. You will come to the house and you will be there to break, legally, on the basis that there will be a court decision and no one will report to anyone. Not here, not from the rostrum, nobody.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u127	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for asking. I can tell you more, actually today, if you're taking statistics, then out of all the operational and search measures, the cases were only used in criminal legislation under the IMF -- 13 percent, under the BSI -- 12 percent. So you can see what the result is about what to do. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. But it's impossible, you can't break it today, you can't go on making it absurd to start a search and rescue operation, so it's not 15 grand in the next year, it's 50,000 in the next year, it's 70,000 in the next year. We have to do something. That's why I'm saying that this law gives us reason to do this second reading, to find the one already. We're not going to find the perfect mechanism, it's going to be sold, it's going to be in one structure, it's going to be in the other, it's going to be in the third. It is up to the people involved in this matter who are in these positions. We need to change people, which ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u128	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u129	I would like to take the floor to Beviz Valerija Ananiyovich, the Committee on Legislative Protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u130	Microphone, Valeriy Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u131	Thank you, Your Honor. Sergei Grigorovich, here's what I'd like to say. One of the main conditions in general is to keep the secret of this activity, i.e. the regime of secrecy. Unfortunately, today's apriorium is going on: we've got a search-and-research thing going on, and in five minutes, what it's started is known on the market. As far as subjects are concerned, starting with the operative and finishing the judge, 9 people are going through the search and search. The question is, is it possible in such conditions, is it possible, in such conditions, to ensure a regime of secrecy, well, and understandably the effectiveness of general search and search activities? [[And we know that if the other knows, he knows and he knows.]] Please, I'm waiting on you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u132	Thank you for asking. Well, you know, yeah, there's criminal responsibility in the Criminal Code for distributing that information. And from the people, I say again, if these nine people who are going through this criminal case are holding their tongues behind their teeth, there would be no criminal prosecution against them. But again, I'm saying, not about the people who hold these positions and give information on operational matters, but about who executes these laws. Let's throw it away at all, put it as it is today, the part will go, 25,000 will go through the prosecution, and 15,000 will go in the unknown way. So today the criminal responsibility for the distribution of this information, the secret information, is that it should be brought to criminal responsibility. And otherwise there should be surveillance, let's change the Constitution and then there won't be supervision, and then we'll say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u133	Dear national MPs, distinguished national MPs, the answers to the questions have been completed. Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch, please sit down. Vladimir Romanovich Moses the head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u134	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, the drafter of the bill proposes to amend three laws or, more faithfully, two laws and the Criminal Procedure Code in order to standardize and bring to conformity with each other provisions of the Constitution on the procedure for obtaining a permit to enter the residence or other possession of citizens, to remove information from the channels of communication, to establish control over correspondence, and so on. So this is about the procedural limitations of the most important, fundamental rights of Ukrainian citizens. How things are going today. Today, the heads of the units that conduct the search and search activities are without consent and without the signature of the prosecutor and have the right to directly apply to the court for permission to enter, re-examine and so forth. When the Operational Search Act was passed, Sergey Grigorovitch reported that there was no procedure for considering these materials. And as we worked in the Supreme Court, we gave instructions or positions in three branches: the B.C.E., the D.A., and the Supreme Court. And I'll tell you this: there are always operatives who deny that there should be some kind of middle-level structure between them and the court. So today the question arises. Is there any other authority necessary between the search chain and the court? The reporter expressed the correct view that the supervision stems from article 121 of the Constitution, but what form of oversight and whether such supervision would not double control and thus make it impossible for operational workers to be brought to court. Because if the application is to be agreed with the prosecutor, it means that without consent the court will not accept such a submission. So on behalf of the committee, I support the opinion of the bill's author, but we still need to allow the prosecutors to implement their task of overseeing the operational and search activities. Whether it is a form, for example, proposed by a fellow Scybinetsky, that consent means a prosecutor's decree either in favour or against, but does not deprive the director of the operating unit of seeking such a sanction. And lastly, your colleagues, and, Volodymyr Mikhajlovich, every time you report the entrapment of the current Code of Criminal Procedure, I ask you once again to refer to the new Code of Criminal Procedure. I have almost 100 kilograms of different texts and versions of this codex in my office. Regrettably, the Supreme Council distributed a code for its creation between the two committees. So no one is doing it today. The offer of five factions to create a temporary commission is not supported, and we are dealing with such nonsystemic approaches and changes to these issues. The committee proposes to support the first reading as a basis. It is good that my colleague Mishchenko has removed the position on amendments to the Anti - Intelligence Act, since the prosecutor does not have the authority to oversee the activities of the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for a coconspirator? Is it? None. Then let's move on to the discussion. I'm sorry. Please, National Deputy Scybinetsky. There's a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u136	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Romanovich, I have such a question. Don't you think the bill is aimed not so much at protecting the rights and interests of citizens as it is for the benefit of those who would like to have for some reason some biased information about the plans and intentions of the intelligence units? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u137	Dear colleague, the drafter of the bill is not to be suspected of this directly, but I must inform you that there has been another bill before the Supreme Council on this subject by colleagues Olijnik and Portnova since March 2009. And they're one another in the way of regulating the problem, but unfortunately, there's only one bill left today, and it's still uncontested. So we're still going to face the problem that there's another law on the same subject. Actually, dear colleagues, it's kind of thin. Well, in criminal theory, these cases are called legal espionage. This is a fine sphere of relations between the state and the people, and it needs to be regulated very finely. And here's a problem that we wouldn't have the law if, let's say, the operative of the bottom line becomes the lawyer of the one who's going to be persecuted, of course, there's no law that can do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u138	Dear colleagues. Blackwolf, please turn on the microphone, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u139	Mr. Reporter, please tell me, you have certainly analysed the world's experience exactly how different our situation is from the countries we call civilized, in which all these legal procedures are actually more developed, which are more of a Byzantine civilization than ours, and the Roman ones, that is, where they are built. And as far as this is concerned, it contributes to the process itself and, on the other hand, to how effectively it impedes the protection of human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u140	The point is that the role and place of the prosecutor's office and the court in different states is defined differently, and so the relationship in these matters is different, but usually this function relies on the court, and the prosecutor is not deprived of the right to participate in this process. But I have to say for justice's sake, even though the judge himself, but once again, if the court had nothing to do with these actions, but only the procurator's sanction, the prosecutors forced the operational worker to look for other means of obtaining information. Out of ten, for example, appeals to the prosecutor were given one or two. While the courts today give nine to ten sanctions out of ten appeals to the court. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u141	Dear colleagues who still have questions before. None. Vladimir Romanovich, thank you, sit down. Please sign up for the bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Jaroslav Suhi. Prepare Yuri Carmazin. You'll be out of town, won't you? And Valeria Bezu is transferred to Jaroslav Suhi. Please, the microphone. I think we're good for people, let's go to the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u142	Again, I am grateful to Jaroslav Mikhailovich, but I wanted to express my position in this regard. I absolutely have to agree with my colleague Mopsik in the plan because, on a large scale, prosecutors at their own time, when they were making appropriate operational-search arrangements, were more reluctant to give such permission or not to give it. And that's what you have to count on. I asked my colleague Mishchenka a question because I had one question. How to narrow it down to those who have to control and at the same time take responsibility for the decision that has been made, this is about talk. Of course, the law enforcement agencies themselves and their operational units need to be orderly, since 80 percent of the search-and-research is for the sake of mercantile interests, not for the sake of business, is also fair. And so in this case, I think that we should vote first in favour of the proposed bill, support it, and, of course, in the second reading, make the changes that we're counting on to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u143	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I would certainly like to ask our secretariat that, if there are two bills, they should be considered together. I mean Bill 4106, which was to be considered along with this bill. It's a big flaw. What do we do now? That bill is not much worse and practically also addresses these same issues. So there should be no such case. At the same time, we have such experiences as did the Law on Elections, as it did today. My bill to amend the Elections Act has not been put in place by another bill. I guess so. While it would be logical to vote for one, one did not pass, it means to vote for the other. It's my general comment I'm making before. Because it probably applies to the committee that then puts the day's paperwork here. As far as the issue raised is concerned, it is extremely important to ensure the rights and protection of the Constitutions, the interests of citizens. But the Constitution provides for the prosecutor's office to oversee operational and search activities. All operational and search activities. Does it come true? No, it's not. In practice, I'll tell you. We need to go to the secretary's head and tell him. There's something there, something they said to the President. A name will be entered, and everything will be done by the full application. And the boys will come and tell you how and where. The name doesn't matter who, the MP or the prosecutor or the judge or the investigator, doesn't matter who. 99 percent, not 80 percent, are thrown into the pipe. These are state funds, government funds. No one's reported it anywhere. We didn't listen to any of the reports. This law should therefore include a mechanism for parliamentary control. The Ministry of Justice sits, in many countries these organs are generally under the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice's influence on something in this regard has now been ruled out. Therefore, I believe that the law should be adopted in the first reading, but in adopting the law, it is necessary to assign the chief of the operational unit if the prosecutor refuses and to specify that in this law the “prosecutor” has solely a prosecutor, not an acting assistant, not an assistant, whether an elder or an extremely senior or an assistant manager. And then the number of these sanctions will go down a thousand times -- and then there'll be order in the state. But then he has to report, and there has to be parliamentary control over the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u145	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, the “Block of Lithuania” faction, is invited to the presentation. Alexander Skibinetsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u146	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, it is good that we have now come to the consideration of draft laws relating to the constitutional rights of citizens. Obviously, this is where we need to start, not think about the industries, the officials, the corporate interests, and so forth. The constitutional rights of citizens in the first place, not in terms of electoral rhetoric, but should always be in a normal state, regardless of the election campaign. And in this context, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you very much, but I will now read an article of the Constitution concerning the constitutional rights of all peoples and citizens. This is article 13: “The earth, the nadra, the atmospheric air, the water and other natural resources within Ukraine are the property rights of the Ukrainian people.” Sadly, he was not able to cope today. the veto is not overturned on the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. I very much ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council, and my colleagues to return to this subject today, not to put it in a long box, for the parcels from. and land frauders have already received a very good signal today – green light to continue their fraudulent land activities. I'm sorry it took some time. And now on the subject of this bill, there's no person in this room who doesn't know that the law enforcement agencies are not only politicized, they're commercialized. And it was absolutely correct for experts to say that the vast majority of cases where there is stalking, listening and so on are things that are ordered to fight their principal business competitors and opponents. So the procedure here has to be extremely clear. And the fact that the prosecutor is still involved in this procedure is a good thing. And I have a question right away. The second bill, mentioned by a colleague of Carmazin, also refers to a pretrial investigation. We are now looking at, look, "the rights of citizens in the conduct of operational research and counter-intelligence." And that bill, which we are not considering, says: “in the course of pretrial investigation”, a coma, “operational exploration and counterintelligence”. I am convinced that the third position must also be included in this procedure. And there is also a question of a meaningful nature, there is a proposal to grant only Henprosecutor or his deputy the right to bring before the court a case motion which should be considered by the Head of the Supreme Court. I think it's important, Vladimir Ivanovich, to extend this to the prosecutor who oversees the search and search, only then will we achieve the result. I think you can read first.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u147	National Deputy Scybinetsky, microphone, please, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u148	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make only two remarks on this bill. First. There is a clear norm of article 121 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the task of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office with regard to the bodies that carry out the search and search activities, which is to oversee compliance with the laws. This standard has been researched in article 5 on the functions of the Prosecutor's Office, the Ukrainian Procurator's Office Act. And a warning in part two of this article: “The prosecution cannot rely on the performance of functions not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine and by this law.” At the same time, the drafters propose to assign prosecutors a function that is essentially a function of control and not only in terms of operational and search entities, but also in terms of judges and their decisions. It's obvious. And secondly, according to these articles of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine, the Procurator's Office, and then the prosecutors are not given a proper function in relation to the bodies that carry out the search and search activities, and because the departments of the Prosecutor's Office are not defined by the Ukraine's Operational Search and Investigation Act, these departments, their employees have no authority to carry out the search and search measures and to make decisions regarding the conduct of such actions, competence* which are given to legislatively designated officials, operational and counter-investigative entities. That is, agreeing on a decision or impact on its adoption or rejection is an order of action, and agreeing to do so in no sense is the same as overseeing compliance with laws in doing so. So I think that the dissemination of the rights of prosecutors, contrary to the standards that I'm talking about, is not very valid in the legal sense. And that's why my position is that this bill needs work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed, the committee's proposal to accept it as a basis. Is there no objection? I ask you to prepare for the vote and invite the deputies to the session room to make a decision. A proposal for a committee to adopt is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving the mechanism for the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens in the implementation of operational and counter-investigative activities]] Registration number 4663. Please vote. [[13:14:10]] For 328 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, there is an offer. As the resonant land issue has repeatedly sounded here, because in Ukraine the more important issue, the more land there is, and I have been approached by a group of national MPs, for whom this is a fundamental question: they had no opportunity to participate in this vote -- to return to the question of moratoriums on land. To approach him in principle, not to allow any kind of land - market manipulation. And after this successful vote, I hope we have a lot of debt to the Ukrainian people, to follow the simplified procedure. Therefore, I ask that the veto be re-elected on the Ukrainian Code of Earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, what will be the thoughts? Adam Martinyuk, please. Please invite the deputies to the session room. Then Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u152	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I think that on this holiday we will do exactly what is right if we solve the most sacred issue that we have with the earth. And it's very good that in the course of the consultations, talking to representatives of other factions, I think we have found an understanding of what needs to be done and should be resolved today, without delaying it the way we voted with you on the fourth. This is one moment. And second moment, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Regrettably, I didn’t get into the rules when I was speaking on the subject, so I was running out of time. That's when I wanted to propose what was now said to us to use another procedural rule: we went back to the veto vote. Therefore, I would like to ask the current one to use this rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u153	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u154	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! The faction of the Party of the Regions and the Party of the Regions has always protected, protected and protected the national interests of Ukraine and the interests of the Ukrainian people. We were definitely against the sale of land because no legal basis had been established to exclude manipulation, speculation, and the sale of land at no cost. Therefore, we continue to speak in principle and support the question of the extension of the moratorium on the sale of land until the legislative framework that excludes speculation, manipulation of land is fully established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u155	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u156	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm going to be very quiet, and I just want to thank you for understanding the proposal that I made. Understand correctly, someone says that there is a “transitional situation” in the Earth Code that is already an obstacle, it is little such wickedness, because the legal colossion comes into force and indeed, a crack, or lacuna, occurs for those who, oh how well they know how to use these legal lacunas and legitimize their fraud schemes on agricultural land. So I think our proposal was timely, and my colleagues' response confirms that. Please proceed to the vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u157	Is there anything else to think about? None. Dear colleagues! Gregory Smythech, please speak from the faction. 20 seconds, who's it gonna be? Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u158	I've always been a performer and a performer. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u159	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u160	Thank you. The position of the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" is clear: without adopting two key rules concerning the prohibition of selling land to legal and natural persons abroad without settling the issue of cadastral land assessment and without settling the issue of land assessment, any further restrictions should work. And that's why, no doubt, we support it, and we don't care here whether it's 140 hectares of land in the "Migiri", or whether it's three hectares of land under Kiev -- the law should be one for all, that's why we support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u161	National MP Blackwolf. That's it. I used to call Smitch that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u162	Dear friends, the point is that there is now a law that prohibits the sale of land until we adopt the Land Sales Act and the Earth cadastre. If we don't accept it by 2012, we're either going to continue that term again, or we're going to sell it without laws that's absurd. So today's warnings about selling land are absolutely right, they're working, now we can't sell until we've passed this law. And now we've actually been offered an offer not to adopt the Land Sales Act and the Earth cadastre by 2012. If so, whether it is worth voting for or not. If language is used to prevent the uncontrolled sale of land, there is now absolute control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u163	Thank you. Now Gregory Smythech, then Adam Martinyuk's lines and we're going to be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u164	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I always say that in a state like the state of our state and the economy of our state, you can't sell land free of salt, although of course citizens have the right. So I would suggest and I think we have a President when he becomes President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, he will first by decree create a National Agrarian Bank, which will accumulate land in the state reserve and thus ensure for the future generation the right to have land of agriculture. Those of us who will be born in rural areas. So I ask you to support this bill and overcome the President's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u165	Adam Martinyuk and Yuri Karmazin, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u166	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Your Honor's colleague, the point is, let's take a look at the law, we've taken into account the thoughts that you're now expressing when you've passed the law. It is in this law that we have stressed that the land of agriculture cannot be sold before 1 January 2012 and not before the laws you are talking about are taken into account. So it's connected here and it's complementing each other, it's not overstepping, it's stimulating what these laws are supposed to be. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u167	Just a minute. I announced Yuri Carmazin, and then you'll have a line. Only I would ask that there be no replica on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u168	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Of course, not only do laws called laws interfere with everyone. We still need to adopt the Land Bank Act, which we need to create; we still need to do all the ground inventory; we need to look at the grounds on which the land has already crossed, including shadow schemes, including foreigners, to let you know. And that is why it is absolutely in Ukraine's national interest to return to the vote now and overcome the President's veto. The President’s veto overcame the Ukrainian people in the January 17 elections, saying that all those who sell land, souls, children, and Ukraine have only five percent. Everyone else has everything else. So let's save Ukraine and vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u169	Yes, a replica of a colleague of Blackwolf's, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u170	Once again, I'd like to ask my colleague, not to call his name, to say he's absolutely right, now there's a ban on selling until we've adopted the Earth cadastre and the Land Market Act. That's right. And until we do, it will work. After we accept it, we can go back to that question. So now to put 2012 – this is to encourage the Supreme Council not to accept this issue by 2012, which is wrong for one simple reason that the Earth cadastre and the Land Market Act need us now. And the sooner we get to work effectively, the more serious it will be. So now there's no point in enacting another law about 2012 -- it's going to be butter butter, it's going to be a transfer from empty to empty. Well, if you want to take it again, well, that'll only mean one thing, we won't have two important laws for the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, since this proposal has been made, let's do this, I'll put it to the vote on the return. Because we've decided to refer you to the committee. On the return to the review of this law and thus repealing our previous decision on committee redrafting. So I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm voting on a motion to repeal our decision to amend this law to the committee, and its consideration now. Please vote. [[13:24:35]] For-360 Decision taken. I will now put to the vote a proposal to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine under the Ukraine Act on the amendment to sections X, paragraphs 14 and 15, of the Ukraine Code of Land Sales. [[Registration number 3425]] Please vote. [[13:25:18]] For 366 Veto resist. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party 151, Timoshenko Yulia Block 151, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" 16, communists 27, "Litvina Block" 20, non-fractional - 1. Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the proposal was to consider further bills on a simplified procedure. My colleague Tomenko offered. I'm putting this motion to the vote, please vote. [[13:26:17]] For-166 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the laws are now proposed: 3176, 4438, 4441. So there's this proposal, because they're essentially congruent, we're not going to do that, are we? No, it's not. Then my colleague Mishchenko denies it. Then, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the Extradition of Persons is announced. [[Extraditions]] [[Registration number 3671]] The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Sergei Grigorovich Mishchenko, co-rapporteur - Moysik Volodymir Romanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u172	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! For your consideration, the Act on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code on Extradition is presented. That is extradition, you realize, is the extradition of criminals who have committed crimes in other states but have been detained and treated accordingly in our territory. To date, Ukraine, according to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders of 1957, all these acts, the procedural actions relating to this extradition and to the involvement and protection and provisional arrest and temporary extradition, and extradition and extradition, are carried out only within the framework of this convention, which has been in existence for some 50 years. It is clear, therefore, that although the convention points to article 22, the following is that national legislation should be adapted to the terms of this international convention. Regrettably, Ukraine is one of the few countries where the implementation of this convention has not been introduced into national legislation. And today, it is very difficult for law enforcement authorities, the judicial authorities that are considering the extradition of criminals to other states to perform their functions clearly, because there is no article in our legislation, the Criminal Procedure Code on this subject. So, dear fellows, I am proposing to bring national legislation in line with this European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders. Moreover, we have a positive conclusion from the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u173	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u174	And a positive conclusion from the Science and Technology Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u175	Thank you. Sit down, Sergey Grigorovitch. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u176	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, I am again asking the same question that extradition is not regulated at the legislative level in Ukraine. There are notable and interministerial normative acts that conflict with the convention referred to by Sergey Grigorovich. So it's about when there are aliens in our country who need to be handed over to another state, or our citizens who have committed crimes abroad are there, by way of arrest, detention, delivery and so forth. It's defined as an extraditional crime. That is, he must conform to international standards and be a criminal in the country to which this citizen appears. But I would like to warn you that the Ukrainian Constitution and Ukrainian legislation do not provide for the extradition of Ukrainian citizens to foreign states where they would not commit a crime if they were in Ukraine at the time of the resolution. So we're taking them to ourselves to attract them, to arrest them, to punish them by extradition, and we're not betraying them. And I would like to say once again, my fellow dignitaries and Vladimir Mikhailovich, that this chapter is the same, only much broader described in the draft of the new Criminal Procedure Code. So once again, I'm addressing you, my esteemed colleagues and Adam Ivanovich, then the question was that we wanted to have a KPC commission to have a cabinet and a secretary. So I'm saying you don't have to do that, let's do the Procedural Code. We'll create a group or commission, as you wish. The committee proposes to support the bill on the basis of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to discuss a bill? If you have any, please sign in. Here's the name of the people's deputies on the board. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u178	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The project is designed to introduce extradition procedures in the criminal process, to protect the rights and interests of the persons concerned. In order to achieve this goal, the project proposes to amend the articles of the Criminal Code and to complete it with a separate chapter IX “The Extradition of Persons. Extradition.’ These rules define the powers of the central authorities of Ukraine responsible for the implementation of international extradition treaties to establish the procedure for the preparation and referral of judicial investigation bodies and the courts of Ukraine for the extradition of persons who have committed crimes in Ukraine, regulate the procedures for the detention of temporary and extraditable arrests of persons who have committed crimes outside Ukraine and whose extradition is required by foreign states, and determine the grounds and order for the prosecutions and decisions of the competent authorities of Ukraine relating to the issuing and handling of such complaints. With this in mind, the faction of the Party of Regions will support this bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u179	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. The successor will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u180	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, that's the right bill for all the signs, in a meaningful manner, in form. But I have a question, we're going back to fragmentation of legislation. Ot Vladimir Romanović, you know very well that the Code of Criminal Procedure has been adopted, and that's where it's regulated. Do you understand what's going on? It turns out that we don't accept complex, system documents, and chronologically later we accept some dot repairs that are correct and so forth. I think it's different for the procedure itself. As far as the meaningful part is concerned, it is certainly right here, even though the true colleague Moses said that we have such important, painful, subtle issues as extradition issues are settled on, literally, the interdisciplinary or subordinate even level. And I don't know if I've talked about it, but now the European Court is also stressing the uncertainty of these extradition procedures. By the way, there are now 12 cases against Ukraine, 12 statements, more specifically, against Ukraine, which are in the course of the European Court of Justice. Hence, there is certainly no warning or barrier to giving this document a move. But once again, I want to pay attention to what I said. Maybe we just have to adopt the Criminal Procedure Code, where all these dot things are going to be included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u181	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u182	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember standing in this high hall reporting the Criminal Code. Many of you remember that. Many said, “Let’s take Criminal and Criminal together.” If we hadn't adopted the Criminal, we'd still be living in the '60s code. That's why we're living on the old KPC. That's why we need to speed up. I think that's exactly what my colleague Moses said, I'm willing to go into any quality there, and then I insisted, and he said, "Give me the code, and I'll finish it, because it's got to be the same arm, the same head." But they didn't. They thought some laurels were needed. No one said the word “thank you”! What laurels? You know. That's it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to resolve a number of political issues in this unquestionably correct law. The first political issue is that to countries that don't give us criminals who committed crimes in Ukraine, we also applied the mirroring method -- we didn't betray them to them, we didn't betray them to those who did it here. It's going to be perfectly appropriate. Let Britain think, let the Russian Federation think, let Israel think. They don't betray, and we don't betray them. There's got to be a relationship in this relationship. This is the first political issue. The second political issue that I have in my mind is that the blanket is a little bit out of hand, I'm not saying it right now, or bad, to the U.S. Attorney General's Office. It's new. a new chapter 9 and article 450, where the “Central Organ” is written, continues to say that “The Central Organ of Implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u183	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u184	Thank you. It says that the central body for implementing Ukraine’s international extradition treaties is the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Why did I say that this is a political issue? Because in many covenants we have recorded that such an organ is the Ministry of Justice. So let's go out what happens if we've already written in those agreements that the Ministry of Justice is responsible for, we've ratified international agreements, and in our Constitution they're higher than our legislation, our internal standards, and there's a conflict that we're not going to get out of. It's a political issue, it needs to be accepted and reconciled, although the role of the Attorney General here should be extremely high, it's not like the Security Service or the External Intelligence Service, which somehow thinks that negotiating with the pirates is very good. No! No! The pirates should not take citizens of Ukraine. Criminal cases are to be broken, and pirates are to be brought here and put in Ukrainian prisons. Then no one will attack any Ukrainian citizen. And we don't ask them to. Instead, we call the generals of the army all in a row. True, there is no army, but there are many generals in the army. Therefore, all crimes against the Ukrainian must be held accountable wherever it is committed and the State must guarantee it. I'd like us to predict it here, too. There are political issues -- we have to consider them and we have to ask them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u185	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Honorable colleagues, discussing the bill. Sergei Mishchenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u186	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Let us ask ourselves: Before this law was passed, did we betray criminals to foreign nations? Yes, we did. And the non-admission of this law - will criminals continue to be extradited? They will be published, but in what way? If today this procedure, if you ask those law enforcement officials how they do these things, is to bring them to a logical conclusion, i.e. by sending a criminal where he has committed this crime, they may say that they do not allow a lawyer to participate, because he is not allowed to participate because he is being obstructed; the courts, by failing to address this convention, are delaying the proceedings; the officials and prosecutors are looking only at this convention, and neither in the Criminal Procedure Code nor in other laws do they specify the procedure. So we do it in the hands of whom without adopting this law? We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u187	Thank you. Well, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u188	And the last. If we haven't accepted three sessions already, we don't accept three calls, we don't accept the Criminal Procedure Code, so if it's not accepted yet, it's clear that it won't be accepted either. So I'm just calling, let's just get our national legislation right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. I'm betting on a motion for a committee to adopt as a basis for a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code for Extradition. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[13:41:39]] For 325 Decision taken. I am introducing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational and Search Activities, the Reporter is the Secretary of the Committee on Legislative Protection of Valerij Ananiyovich Bevaz. [[on international cooperation]] [[Registration number 4438]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u190	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, little history. The Operational Search Act was passed in February 1992. Since then, 17 years have passed, and in these 17 years, Ukraine, as a subject of international law, has been involved in many international treaties. and contracts, including and in, say, specific areas such as law enforcement. As a result, there was a need to make appropriate changes to the Operational Search Act as well. The content of these changes is, above all, that the International Criminal Police Organisation Interpol, which today has 187 countries in the world, is proposing to amend the Operational Investigations Act with a reference to the statute of this organization as a basic document. in the ratio of our law enforcement agencies to the police structures of the world. Thus, the Act on Operational Search Activities is now proposed by five articles, more faithfully by four articles. One of them is an entirely new article called. For number five. 1, which is called “International Cooperation in the Field of Operational and Search Activities”. Another argument, dear colleagues. The thing is, in 2012, as you know, Ukraine is taking the final part of the European Football Championship. There is a special monitoring organization within the Secretariat-General of Interpol, and it provides methodical and practical assistance to all countries of the world in hosting the European Championships, the World Championships and the Olympic Games. In this connection, Interpol Secretary General Ronald Noubold visited Ukraine in February 2009.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u191	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u192	was accepted by the Head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvin, and worked with us, on our committee of profile, where he also urged that appropriate amendments be made to the statutes of this respected international organization, both the Law on Operational Search Activities and, I will report on the following law – the Law on Militia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u193	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the bill? Well, please sign in. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, I am in principle in favour of this law, but I have pressed the button and I will vote against it. Why not? If any of the national MPs in the hall are in this room for 20 years, and you remember, and who is new, 5 years old, remembers all the more because of the fresh memory that Ukraine regularly joins or ratifys or meets other international agreements, including the European Union, including the Interpol line. And so on and so on and so forth. Please tell us that when Ukraine passed a readmission law last year, that the European Union has made it easier for us to get visas for our citizens, whether it has implemented our workers working abroad in their businesses and their gardens. Have they made it easier for us to access our goods and vote in their parliaments, including in European communities, to allow our products, which are essential for Ukraine to export? No, on the contrary, it's quota, it's regulated, it's banned and it's controlled. What does Ukraine have? Ukraine must open its borders. Everything, I'm sorry, including the dirt in the international search, is here in Ukraine, and we've had a worse criminal situation ever since. So I don't mind in principle, but under the right conditions. We've opened up the country to some possibilities -- we're opening it up. We've been shut down in Ukraine -- we're closing down. Why do we not force ourselves to respect why we do not force ourselves to be respected abroad? How can you ratify blindly each time, with a reduced program, laws that have a fundamental impact on life or economic status, or on the criminal system. So I would like them to think again and again, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If the European Union, including the possibility of access to goods, does not allow us to do so, we should do the same. And no matter what we've done, we've joined the SATs, we've joined other programs. As an example. Me, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u195	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u196	By the way, yesterday I passed the Law on the Cessation of the Readmission Act, which is concluded by Ukraine and the European Union. Because during this time, the European community has not made any progress in its concessions to Ukraine, including with regard to citizens, our labour force, our visa regime, economic space, and so on, has not improved for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who signed up, took the floor. There's no insistence? Mishchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u198	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to support my colleague Behves in this legislative initiative. If we look closely at the law, he offers us the following: that where Ukraine operates under international agreements, we do it all through national legislation and we give such police co-workers the right to cooperate with those internal affairs bodies that exist in other countries through Interpol, of course, in our territory when this is going to be some kind of action including Euro-12 and, you know, cooperation goes very closely and these international agreements work. Therefore, I see no problem here in adopting this law and pointing out that the internal rights bodies are acting in accordance with our legislation and within the framework of the international agreements that our Ukraine has ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u199	Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to adopt no objections on the basis of the draft law? [[Registration number 4438]] I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities. [[on international cooperation]] [[Registration number 4438]] Please vote. [[13:49:41]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! From this series we have to consider another bill before the morning session, this is the draft law amending the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on international cooperation]] Registration number 4441. The rapporteur is the Secretary of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection Activities, Valeriy Ananiyovich Bebelz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! I would still like to respond literally with one phrase to my colleague's speech. In an order of information, today the law - enforcement authorities of our country, called Ukraine, have 52 agreements with international organizations regarding legal aid. While Interpol has 187 countries, making amendments to the Operational Search Activities Act pursues one goal: to make our law enforcement agencies more effective, not Europe. Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! For your consideration, a bill on amendments and additions to the Police Act is proposed. [[Registration number 4438]] A similar situation. The Police Act, adopted on 20 December 1990 by the Decree of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR. To this day the law is effective, effective, it foresees everything from place to place, the role of internal affairs and the end of social status. The only thing that looks like a white spot over there is once again the same question of international cooperation, the same question again. You know that Interpol, the International Criminal Police Organization, primarily focuses on four areas of activity. One, it's human trafficking, the second, it's money laundering, it's criminally acquired, the third, it's drug trafficking and the fourth, it's illegal arms trafficking. I think that today, for our country, all four directions are quite relevant and we should take them seriously. That is why it is envisaged in the current legislation, i.e. the amendment of the Police Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u201	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u202	I'm almost 30 seconds away. Four articles, one of which again provides for 5.1, foresees a new article called “International Cooperation in the Field of Operational Investigation” referring to interstate, inter-government, inter-agency agreements and, in addition, to the statute of the International Criminal Police Organization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u203	Thank you. Please sit down, Valery Ananiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to take part in the discussion, please sign in. Please put your names on the board. Sergei Mishchenko, and then Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u204	Thank you. Once again, the issue is that we are improving national legislation. And Comrade Beales has faithfully pointed out that according to those international agreements that exist between Interpol's internal affairs authorities and the relevant services in the police of the world. They're still working today. So if we look at the changes to this law, the implementation that exists in international treaties just gives internal affairs authorities the right to engage in the joint work of the police or the internal affairs of the police in our country and foreign affairs. So I don't see anything wrong here, on the contrary, we should welcome such legislative initiatives to support it in the first reading, if there are any mischievous things there, we should correct them to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u205	Gregory Smythuch, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u206	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! First. I want to say to my colleague Behvizu that I repeat, I do not object to cooperation in one area or another with international organizations, including law enforcement agencies. I say against what's happening with Ukraine. You know that in today’s world, conflicts are escalating — international, interterritorial, interreligious, and others. And Ukraine is in an open space to enter here or to make people incomprehensible with whom, so to speak, the past, including the criminal, is located in Ukraine, and thus the situation in Ukraine is deteriorating. That's one question. The second question. You have a clear example of what happened during the vote in Donetsk, where it is unclear under which mandate more than two thousand people of one, so to speak, age, healthy age, are called age, in one garment, and these are clearly law enforcement officers who are in Ukraine. And at the same time, I know exactly from the media, except for the two thousand people who were in Donetsk, there's a very large number from where they came from. And what these people can do at a certain time, under certain circumstances, only one Lord knows. You know what the situation is today in Crimea, you know what the situation is in other regions, we have a criminogenic situation that is very and very dangerous in part of the security of the public order of our population in Ukraine. So I, I repeat, my position was and is: the law enforcement authorities should certainly have the right and be able to contact their colleagues, but we should not, in a unilateral manner, allow in their territory to do any legal work for foreigners or by using them. You know, there's a recent scandal in the European Union, where in Germany, if foreign intelligence were to shoot a citizen. And you, please tell me if we know anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u207	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u208	And if you don't know, I'll tell you that in Ukraine, as with experience and education, basic law enforcement, right? I assure you that in Ukraine, other states and law enforcement agencies are functioning, working, and preparing, and are just waiting for their time to be used. So please pay more attention to these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u209	Thank you. Dear National MPs, no one insists on
ParlaMint-UA_2010-01-19-m0.u210	The committee proposes to adopt a bill that we have just discussed as a basis. [[Registration number 4441]] I am voting on this proposal, namely the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Police Act. [[on international cooperation]] [[Registration number 4441]] Please vote. [[13:57:40]] For 299 The factions, please. Region Party 105, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 124, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 23, Communist faction - 27, Litvina Block - 19, non-fractional - 1. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. At 16 o'clock we will begin our work by reviewing the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms. [[Registration number 5029]]
