ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:24]] Cards were registered in the 420 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our national deputy of Ukraine, our colleague Mosak Sergio Mikolaiovich. He was 45 years old. Please welcome our colleague, wish him success. [[Applause]] I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on September 21, 2010. 23 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, seven laws and one decree were passed, 10 bills were adopted on a basis, and 6 bills were rejected. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Wednesday for statements made by national deputies with applications, suggestions, and messages. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. George Skudar, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u2	I give the floor to Deputy Kojari.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u3	Next up will be Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u4	Good morning, honourable deputies, dear Mr. Head! Upon entering the pre-election fight, the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, along with other opposition partners, launched a campaign of destructive criticism by Ukrainian authorities abroad. In this criticism, they try to make their own biased assessments of the situation out of the opinion of European leaders. This behavior is shameful, I can't find another word, because there's a simple rule around the world: in any country, there can be a fierce internal political struggle, but when politicians go abroad, the internal struggle stops. The British do not go abroad as conservatives or Labourers, but as British, as French. This is a European style, a European behavior, because Europeans realize that bringing out internal differences in the outside world is a dirty name of their own state. Unfortunately, this rule does not work in Ukraine. We have the opposite tradition: a year after year, opposition runs through European capitals, and it wails, and it complains that it is not possible for the authorities to oppose it. Even while in power, the oranges were not ashamed to display in front of the world the dirty underwear of their own quarrels and disputes. Perhaps only a party of regions in the history of Ukraine was the only exception to this sad rule. Unfortunately, today's opposition continues in the same wrong way: our candidate for President Viktor Yanukovic won the democratic and fair elections -- they, or she, went to call the world not to determine this victory; we made mutual agreements with Russia for the sake of Ukraine's energy security and all of Europe, but they were ashamed of the whole world by throwing smoke checkers in the Parliament Hall. Today, the opposition complains that the current authorities do not create for them the Paradise conditions under which they could still do nothing without merely piling up the image of our nation to make political capital. They turn out to be small foreign experts and officials who, under their direction, prepare loud statements on behalf of serious political forces. But as an intern diplomat, I assure you that influential and responsible European politicians have very different views on Ukraine's development than our opposition. Their statements are on all official European sites. You will not find in any way the destructive criticism that overcrowds our opposition. So knowing how the world really appreciates our work, we're sure that there's nothing going to happen again. An opposition to the same rakes that hit the forehead in pain is the part of the oranges that have already gone into oblivion. And the Ukrainian people, they are convinced, will come to the right conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u5	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh, faction of the Party of Regions, instead of Mikhail Chechetov. The next one's going to be the party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u6	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! At the United Nations, there are 65 General Assembly meetings that address very important issues, challenges to human civilization in the third millennium — such as hunger, poverty, international terrorism, and so forth. We need to understand that Ukraine is already deeply integrated into economic, political and world societies, and national security issues are taking on great importance in the context of both internal and external trends. Ukraine has accumulated huge systemic problems, starting with energy security, the threat to Ukraine’s gas transport system in connection with the construction of northern and southern flows, the loading of the gas transport system, and the further development of oil processing. Similar problems are being exacerbated in the direction of the defence of the state, further reforming the development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and realizing the enormous potential that exists in the defence and industrial complex of Ukraine. Including these problems can be identified as trends in the financial system of the state. Over the past two years, the external, internal, and secured debt of the State has increased more than threefold and is approaching 40 percent of the gross domestic product. The question of the negative balance of external trade, where the state’s ability to protect and promote its economic interests is being tested. Human health, conditions of childhood, motherhood, poverty, international terrorism, piracy — all of these problems must be at the centre of the attention of the State, the authorities, including the Ukrainian Parliament. On the basis of the above, the President of Ukraine gave a mandate based on the Constitution of Ukraine and the legislation of Ukraine, following the development of a National Security Strategy for Ukraine, which would allow for the prediction of all world trends, the consolidation of political will, intelligence, resources to strengthen all elements of national security and Ukraine's output into a powerful permanent development path. In this strategy, all the famous experts of our nation are taking part, and we urge you to cooperate, only a consolidated state, only the ability to protect and promote modern methods of interest is a guarantee of development, and a worthy city in the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u7	National MP Homutinnik instead of Supper. Please, the faction of the Party of Regions. Sergey Tereshuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, received a draft of the Ukrainian Tax Code from the government yesterday. After lengthy discussions, public discussions, receiving thousands of proposals from Ukrainian national deputies, we received a document to work on together and which country has been waiting for 20 years. In addition, taxation is still the only area of law in which almost no system is fully lacking. The definition of taxes as an economic and legal category is given in at least three laws. The rights of control authorities and taxpayers are governed by more than ten laws. Part of the tax rules are contained in legislation that does not apply at all to the field of taxation. Individual taxes and congregations are regulated by decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, adopted 10 years ago, and some of them have made no sense at all. The first and main objective of the Ukrainian Tax Code is that the tax system will finally be based on a system document that will not change every month. Both taxpayers and the state have to work by the same rules. And this is a key condition for investing in Ukraine, because an investor is willing to work when he can predict the development of the situation. I don't want to talk about the advantages and disadvantages of this document right now, but after the presentation of the government's draft Tax Code at the open meeting of the Ukrainian Ministers' Office, where, by the way, representatives of all the business public organizations were present, all the governors, ministers, national deputies, including the opposition, we saw that the Tax Code offers real legal incentives and benefits that ensure the real equality of the rights of administrators and taxpayers. Dear colleagues, the project certainly needs further improvement. And given that the budget process has already started, we need to work with it more quickly to get Ukraine to a normative act that is strategically important for Ukraine's economy. And in the final edition of this document, it has to be balanced, indeed, a law that will be based on the observations of all the sectoral public organizations, ministries, national MPs, professional committees, so that we can make a document for the time being that will have all the factions and political parties. And before that, our faction, the faction of the Party of the Regions, is completely open. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u9	Sergei Tereshuk, please have the right to speak. Prepare the Smiling.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u10	Sergei Tereshuk, Block of Lithuania, People's Party, Cherkaščina. Dear colleagues, respected radio audiences, and television audiences! The Lithuanian bloc considers it necessary to draw the attention of the President, the government, the higher legislative body of Ukraine to the problems of rural workers, because they deserve more attention and greater public support, because in this difficult dry year, they have done everything for each family to have bread on the table, and not just bread. After all, it is not just the rural workers but, above all, the food security of the country, the resurgence of the world’s glory for Ukrainian farmers. To say that we're worried about the state of affairs in the countryside, the living conditions of rural people is very little. The village needs to be saved today because it's gonna be late tomorrow. It is fitting that all the rural problems discussed thoroughly in this Hall are discussed in the Tax Code and in the approval of the state budget for the following year. It is bitter, but it must be admitted that peasants survive on their own, at the expense of hard work in the suburbs, produce products for both their own needs and for the city’s inhabitants. The village declines, degrades, chokes on roadblocks, lacks good medical care, no lighted streets, and the vast majority lack production. And only in Chercachina in 15 years did the number of agricultural workers decrease by 6 times. Our faction in adopting the state budget for the following year will demand and seek substantial state support for agriculture, improvement of living conditions in the countryside. First of all, road construction, road repair, centralized water supply. It's time to launch the fires on rural houses at the premium prices, because the gas isn't going to be in the pockets of most people and it's not going to be expensive tomorrow. I can't get past a question like our black people. While Ukraine has not yet extended much of the gift of the Most High - given Blacklands, it is not only our oligarchs but also our foreigners who are drawn to them. Today, more than 1,100 companies from 11 countries own incomplete data in our fields. We invite the government to take a deep look at this issue. The absence of land inventory, the lack of a legislative base, results in land abuse. Earth in the world has at least two functions: ensuring the food security of every state, and creating jobs in the countryside, and this is filling the budget, this is living the village. We also insist on the creation of a land bank that the villagers cannot afford. If the skeptics say where to get the money? Only by changing the target land use did the state lose billions of dollars. Therefore, honourable colleagues, let us reject political passions, and when we adopt the Budget Code and the Tax Code, the budget and the Tax Code, we will resolve these.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u11	Gregory Smythuch is referring to Helen Bondarenko, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next instead of Gnatkewicz. Yeah? Is it not?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, as well as known by the OSCE, plans to send his media freedom representative to Ukraine. As a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Freedom of Speech Information, and as a representative of the power coalition, they can only welcome Europe's desire to help Ukraine develop democratic principles and strengthen freedom of expression. Every time our political power came to power, Europe watched us closely. European auditors'visits to democracy have been frequented and European experts have not allowed the regional team to drop off. A party of regions in such visits has always seen only the benefits for themselves and the country. We've never been promoted, we've never been ovated with oranges in the European Parliament, we've never created a warm environment. We have always been criticized by more than one. We tried to do even better than the Bible says: “To whom much has been given, much will be asked. ” We certainly do not want leniency, for it corrupts our political opponents in due course. They have weakened, blinded, and lost not only the election but also the country. Therefore, the OSCE representative's stated visit is expected, above all, to work hard and, above all, to work objectively. We are ready for meetings, discussions to provide information of interest to Europe. We invite the OSCE representatives in advance to schedule meetings not only with the Ukrainian opposition, which is currently trying to monopolize Europe's ears, eyes and mouth, but also with the authorities. We are ready to visit the most stringent and most considerate representatives of the OSCE. Since it is their work that will help us build a new country, it will help us build a new Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u13	Yuri Gnatkevitch is referring the right to speak to Vladimir Bondarenko, the BUT faction. At the same time, I inform you, my fellow Members, that 28-30 in Ukraine will be the rapporteurs of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Therefore, it will be possible for the factions of the faction to hold appropriate meetings, to answer all questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u14	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. Dear friends! Those who are interested in the news and read the news every day could not help but notice the three reports that appeared in the press. First. It's President Azarov's job to ensure food security in Ukraine. And as he provides for it, this poor Azarov, when the cow subsidies for the village have been cancelled. When did any seed subsidies get canceled? Who is going to gather some crops today when it is not sown? And so on. That's why I don't think Azarov will do the President's job. The second is that you should notice all of us. That's what the statistics report is about how the economy is developing in Ukraine. In particular, inflation is only 0.1 percent in August. 0.1 percent, that's, well, an incredibly small statistical given even at the error level. And that's why every citizen who goes to the market notices the lie of government, the lie of everyone who represents the coalition today, the fact that, take it, take it, take it, take it, take it, here's the rabbit in Parliament that took the carrot, here. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have also witnessed the announcement by the two deputy minister of agriculture of heathen for not organizing fairs in Kiev. This is their role as fairs in Kiev to organize. Fairs are an ossification where they were supposed to perform with figures that show what cheap prices in Ukraine. But each one of us has his own statistics in his pocket, and Ukrainian citizens understand that this government only builds everything on lies and lies. I would like to point out that yesterday there was an interesting bill here that didn't support the Party of Regions and its satellites, that the gas for Ukrainian citizens who are children of war shouldn't make it cheaper, that is, the benefits that urban residents use do not reach the village. So today we have the fact that we're finally getting the rural population. Look at these baskets. Here's two prices. One basket is when Julia Timoshenko ran the government, and we went to the markets, and today we go there. So notice the price difference and see if this corresponds to 0.1 percent. Carrots, beetroot, potatoes, cabbage -- what you used to talk about, it's three times as expensive. So when I go to Kiev, and across Ukraine, and read the slogans “We are building a new country!” remember, a new country cannot be built on lies, on deception, on cynicism. You bought the salesmen in this room that filled your ranks, and that's how you're changing the state's development vector today. It's a lie, it's cynicism, it's your sin! Today you are deceiving people who need to believe in something that has made life better. How they live.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u17	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u18	As they live today, we see. And that's what citizens see. That's why it's scary for you to go to the elections, and you've canceled them in Kiev and you're trying to take down the rating party in most areas, first of all "Paternity".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u19	Thank you. Alexander Steshenko hands over the right to speak to the national MP. Please, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u20	Paul Mokchan, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I have a commission, on behalf of the representatives of the Ukrainian Intelligence, to familiarize myself with this address, which was approved on September 12 on the basis of the work of the round table, which was attended by the academics Dončik, Boris Olijnik, the heroes of Ukraine Yuri Mishketić, Nina Matvienko, Doctor of Philological Sciences Larissa Masenko, Yuri Mitzik, historian, renowned lawyer Vladimir Vasilko. “Dear Ukrainians, there has come to power in Ukraine a regime that actively dismantles our state. Each of us has already felt the danger of the social and economic atmosphere prevailing in Ukraine. The improvement of life now promised to the gullible electorate who voted in favour of the Party of Regions and its leader has not taken place. Instead of focusing on solving the burning socio-economic problems and raising the living standards of poor citizens, the ruling regime sought to destroy Ukrainian education, history, culture, and language. On the eve of local elections, the coalition registered in the Supreme Council a bill on languages in Ukraine, keeping only the “State” epithet in English. The drafters of this bill have the real goal of creating a tool for the elimination of Ukrainian language from all spheres of social life, contrary to the Basic Law of the State, the fundamental principles of European language policy and practice. By this document, which legitimizes total ruse, the Yanukovich regime testifies to being a direct heir to the royal and Communist regimes, an open opponent of the Ukrainian national idea. Education, science, culture, and information space are completely rudimentary. Apparently, the slogan “Building a New Country” actually hides the programme of the destruction of the Ukrainian nation – the system-building element of Ukraine’s state independence, exacerbates the divisions between its people, the fragmentation of society, the senseless regionalization of every hamlet or labor village. This bill of power means the continuation of a fierce language war against Ukraine, between us the one that is the critical increase in Ukraine's asymmetric ambiguity in favour of the domination of the language of the neighbouring state, which deliberately consumes Ukraine, restores it to the Asian space of poverty, corruption and seductiveness. The citizens of Ukraine, today it is up to each of us to be Ukrainians in our country, Ukraine, not to betray the memory of our generations, our ancestors, who are.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u21	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u22	Let us not resort to the democratic choice of the Ukrainian people, preserve our soul, our uniqueness, our own word. We call upon each and every one of you to write a letter of protest to the Supreme Council, to its speaker, to the President, because we will use other means to remind them that all the regimes that have invaded the life of the Ukrainian language have found their own infamous end because there is no other world.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u23	Thank you, Paul Mikhailovich, thank you. Jaroslav Kenzior, the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” conveys the right to speak to Viacheslav Kirilenko. Vassil Hara will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u24	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” A statement by the Party “For Ukraine!” “It has been six months since the appointment of Minister of Education of Dmitri Tobacco. On the day of this odious appointment, President Yanukovic and the coalition warned that they would be responsible for the consequences of his anti-education and anti-Ukraine policies. These are just some of the consequences of this destructive policy. The system of entry into institutions is discredited, external testing is eliminated, corruption is returned to the introductory campaign. Because of an estimate of so - called midpoints, not knowledge, 30 percent more medallists have suddenly become a year. About the chaos under the walls of the branches created by the Smoker during the summer when he entered the highlands, stop talking. Ceremonially ousted from the Soviets is the Ukrainian language, canceled exams from the Ukrainian language for bachelors, for the entrance to postgraduate, for the presentation of a candminium. There are facts in some areas where parents are forced to write applications for the transfer of students from Ukrainian classes to Russian. In fact, everything that graduates do is not only the middle school, but also the higher school doesn't know Ukrainian, there's a Stalinese-Cageist view of history. The truth about the heroic struggle of Ukrainians for independence is thrown out of the textbooks, scientific data and historical facts are cynically distorted. You could add a lot more to that. However, the culmination of nonprofessionalism from Tobacco was adopted in July, which, contrary to the Constitution, transformed preschool education for children from five years to duty. In July, the Party “For Ukraine!” warned that this law was not only illegal but also unrealistic, as only 57 percent of preschoolers attended kindergartens last year, while gardening was 108 percent, and in large cities even more. How do we teach the rest of the children to fill their gardens? What can you do in a village where there are miles to the nearest garden? What can parents do to raise a child in a family? The coalition did not hear our arguments and voted in favour of this nonsense. Now this law is working on paper, and in reality nothing has changed. In this connection, tens of thousands of parents have inadvertently become lawbreakers. This absurdity must be put to an end. And that's why I put in a bill to restore the preschool education law that was in effect by July of this year. I propose that we immediately accept this project to calm the parents and stop the experiments on children. And an experimenter, a non-professional tobacco expert, as soon as Parliament separates from education and from education management, the better it will be for education, which means for Ukraine as a whole. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u25	Hara Vasil Georgievicz, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I've been getting more and more excited lately by Timoshenko's absurd theater. You will look at these mourning, face-loving people who are increasingly coming up on television screens and the demand not for the Supreme Council. How they genuinely take care of workers, how they suffer for them, as if they were never in power and had no opportunity to do anything good for people. Without a year, it had been a week since the oranges had been removed from power after five years of abuse over the country. By destroying 30 per cent of the industry, millions of jobs, destroying the country's financial system by acquiring unprecedented debts, leading to poverty two thirds of the population of Ukraine, they suddenly engulfed their love for the impoverished people. You think about the cynicism of what's going on! Futures insist on raising social standards. They think that people have forgotten, as their leader, Timoshenko, as Prime Minister, has categorically failed to comply with the Supreme Council's decision to raise social standards, claiming that it is an atomic bomb under the 2010 budget. Viktor Fedorovic Janukovic became President and immediately launched an increase in social standards, with a backlog. Strangely enough, today the botovans are looking after the budgeters, who, under the power of power, have been completely humiliated by freezing their wages for, in fact, three years. It was Timoshenko who, at a minimum wage of 605 grevens from 1 January 2009, established a first-class budgeting rate of 545 grevens, equaling the salaries of professionals from 1st to 7th grade. President Yanukovic and the Government of Azarov are now trying to resolve this distortion as quickly as possible, but it is clear that the economy of Ukraine should give money. You will see with what hypocrisy they demand a moratorium on raising the price of gas for the population! The Bhutanese forgot that it was their leader Timoshenko who signed the country's gas contract with Russia, that it was Timoshenko who signed a memorandum with the IMF, which pledged to raise the price of gas for the population by 2.5 times for a loan of 16 billion dollars. The money has been received, the commitments have yet to be fulfilled. In addition, money had gone unknown and Ukraine's commitments to the IMF had moved to the Government of Azarov. The President and the Cabinet of Ministers have been held hostage to the IMF for the very fault of the Bhutanese team and Timoshenko himself. The new power had to seek ways to minimize the consequences of the free activities of its predecessors. I cannot but mention the participation of the FPUs that I am leading in this process. Despite the initial conflict between FPU and Kabmin, the results of the joint group's work have been found a way out — the maximum social protection of the population and the fulfilment of commitments by the International Monetary Fund. A lower threshold for the population of subsidies from 15 to 10 for retirees working from 20 to 15. The procedure is as simplified as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u27	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u28	The number of families receiving the grant has increased. If they could get up to 300,000 earlier, now up to one and a half million. The large number of low-income families will pay for gas as before the increase. Some will pay less. A little bit of it might pay for 5 or 10 bracelets more. Negotiations are under way at the request of the Kabmin, FPU and IMF federation. The challenge is to remove the requirement to increase the retirement age, remove the second increase in the price of gas in April, and remove the requirement to freeze budget salaries. There's a chance we can make a positive decision. The only thing that is regrettable is the conduct of the opposition, which is harmful. The object of the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues taken to the talk are exhausted. I ask the secretariat traditionally to prepare appropriate referrals and assignments, based on those recommendations and suggestions, and statements that have been made by the national deputies during the presentations. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to Wednesday's issues. We have an extremely stressful work plan. Please, Sergei Sass, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u30	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! National Deputy Sas, “Block of Timoshenko” faction, “Fatherland” party. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, as we know, is a saying that democracy is a procedure. The procedure for Parliament is the Rules. Thus, in article 25, part three of the Rules states that Wednesday is used to form the order of the day’s opposition. I wanted to find out how Bills 7060 and 7061 were introduced by the National MP Simonenko, or I missed the fact that the Communist faction had left the coalition or was in breach of the regulations. So I ask you to stop all of these things because all of these things happen over and over again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u31	Thank you. I, my dear colleagues, provide information. At a meeting of the Conciliation Council, it was agreed that since there was a bill under the authority of the People's Deputies of Saintchenko and in fact bills which. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, don't yell at me, breaking the Rules. And since they actually resonate with each other, they need to be considered at the same time. If you don't mind, we'll remove it, then we'll consider it. But the Conciliation Council -- I ask you again -- but the Conciliation Council has made this decision. And if you are such an advocate of the Rules, it is not allowed to be placed in the Supreme Council. You put order in there first, then you teach me. We agreed that today all the issues proposed by opposition factions would be considered. So I'd like to ask, Your Honor, not to accuse you of having no cause at all. Please, let's do better than that, how do we look at all these issues, and the main thing is to look at them effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u32	Didn't we make a deal? Then we will not make decisions. Dear colleagues, I propose that if there's a proposal to consider a reduced procedure, you will say and we'll consider something else. And now I'm announcing a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Nadra for the Extraction of Drinking Groundwater. [[Registration number 4679]] The author and chairman of the committee are proposed for a reduced procedure. I am voting on the proposal to review the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code on Nadra in terms of extracting drinking groundwater under reduced procedures. [[Registration number 4679]] Please vote. [[10:36:09]] For 243 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Associate Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Sergey Mikolaiovich Glazunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! You are invited to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Code on Drinking Groundwaters. The bill was prepared on the basis of numerous electoral referrals. The bill is intended to remove restrictions on underground drinking water, which are now outdated. The aim of the project is to give landowners and land users the right to obtain drinking underground water without obtaining special permits and mining permits, irrespective of the depth of their production. Now, without special permission, landowners and land users can extract fresh water at a depth of up to 20 metres. However, there is no resource for quality drinking water on the horizons up to 20 metres today. Moreover, more than 260 settlements in Ukraine are now denied access to quality drinking water. Such a rule of free access to drinking water at a depth of up to 20 metres today in the face of environmental degradation requires changes. For their own consumption, the population usually has to extract water from a deeper depth than the law provides. Particularly often, this occurs in mountain areas and mining areas, where groundwaters disappear because of underground works, leaving for ever-increasing depths. The artificial restriction actually forces people to break the law. Under the Criminal Code, articles 240 of the Criminal Code are punishable by a fine of up to 100 unpaid minimum incomes of citizens or a restriction of will for up to two years. [[Article 2]] The proposed Bill 4678 amends the restrictions on free access of 20 metres and the right of production is granted provided that the production of water is to the underground.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u34	Allow me to finish the speech. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u35	that the water yield of groundwater does not exceed 300 cubic metres per day. The implementation of the project does not require additional public budget costs. Please support this bill and do a good job for the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u36	Yes, I'd like to invite you to the co-rapporteur of the Glazunov Committee, Sergio Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u37	The committee considered a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Nadra for Subterranean Water Extraction, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Natalia Kraljevska. The main purpose of the bill is to empower landowners and land users to extract drinking underground water without obtaining special permits and mining drainage regardless of the depth of its extraction. The bill proposes to provide for the right to extract without obtaining a special permit for drinking water for own household consumption, not centralized and centralized, except for the production of fasciated drinking water for household drinking water, provided that the productivity of groundwaters does not exceed 300 meters per day. At present, article 23 of the Ukrainian Code on Nadra provides for the right of landowners and landowners without special permission and mining for their agricultural and household needs to extract fresh underground waters up to 20 meters deep. In today’s conditions, the use of fresh groundwater for its own consumption is very common from deeper depths than the Ukrainian Nadra Codex. This is particularly true in mountain areas where neighbouring households are located at different distances from groundwaters, allowing some people to extract water without permission up to 20 meters and others, according to current legislation, to obtain permits, as well as mining areas in Ukraine, where mining work causes underground water to disappear and has to be extracted from larger and deeper depths. This calls for appropriate changes to Ukraine’s Nadra Codex. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the bill could be adopted on the basis that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports this bill, the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship supports this bill and recommends that it be adopted on the basis of public organisations, such as the European Business Association, also support the bill. In view of the above, the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u38	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u39	recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion: two – "for, two – "against". May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine” faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u41	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Roman Tkachu.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u42	Roman Tchac. You can come from the rostrum if you are. Turn on the microphone. Scubenko will be next in line, the “BUT – Fatherland” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u43	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like first of all to really thank Natalia Yuriovni for introducing this bill and the great is the positive in that. This is primarily true of the really mountainous areas of Ivano-Frankishte, as well as of the areas where fossils are mined. But here's a little note. I think that in the first reading you can vote in favour. But still, this is where we're talking about the day-to-day production of fresh water, 300 meters cubic, but we have to do a differentiation here. After all, this bill binds us to landowners, land users. For example, when it comes to private gardening, there are no questions, no more than 300 cubes. And for example, when there's a school or a boarding school where there's 100, 200, 300 children, there's more than 300 cubic meters of water per day. If it's a small utility, it's also more than 300 meters of cubic. And the question here is, on the one hand, we say it's a positive, and on the other hand, we can reduce the resource of those who use this drinking water. So I think you can take it as a basis, and in the second reading, you have to make a clear graduation: to whom, as far as the landowner or the landowner is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u44	National Deputy Skoubenko, “BUT – Fatherland” faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I believe that we are going the right way, removing the mass of restrictions on productive and economic activities, especially when we distinguish consumption for private purposes and consumption for spills. To date, it is not a secret that there is a mass of underground water spills, but the most terrifying is the water of not the best quality that our underground drinking water uses to get over arrived. To date it is necessary, on the one hand, to limit farmers and the private sector to such misdeeds. On the other hand, to protect them from improper claims by the current authorities. To date, all villagers use their wells and use their wells. Measure depth to 20 meters after 20 meters. Those who have faced it always have a large component of corruption and everyone understands the amount of bribes to be paid in order to obtain wells on their own land. There will be no problem if we limit water consumption to 300 cubic metres and increase the depth of the well to an indefinite size. Because, from a geological point of view, water in each region can be found at different depths, especially drinking water. That is why I believe that the law is positive. He needs to be taken. And such laws must be as many as possible. It is necessary to remove restrictions, to weaken more and more the public impression on the neck of an entrepreneur and a private citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u46	Mikhailo Chechetov, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u47	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! A party of regions never sees who is the author of the law. We're looking at the point. Today, Natalia Royal is introducing several laws. Where Natalia Royal wrote the law as a specialist, she is indeed a high-level specialist, a high-level professional. Where she wrote as a professional, the law is indeed necessary for the country. Objectively. That's what we're admitting, and so are you. We'll vote for him. But where the rest of the laws are needed, Natalia Jurievna wrote as a politician, based on the political situation, she, well, is simply lowering her professional level. Of course we won't. I therefore call for the right part of the Hall to pass laws that will not be written by politicians. You're all professionals. Write like professionals. And you'll always find support for this part of the room. At that time, we will consolidate Parliament's efforts and provide a legislative framework that will enable the economy to rise and effectively raise the social standard of life of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u48	Yes, who else insists on the factions? None. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The conclusion of the Chief Expert Office is that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending the Code of Nadra. [[on the extraction of drinking groundwater]] [[Registration number 4679]] Please vote. [[10:46:59]] For 351 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two factions: the BUT faction and Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense require a 30-minute recess or an opportunity to make a statement. Please, who's going to perform? Sergey Sass, would you excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, my distinguished colleagues, I wanted to draw your attention on behalf of the two factions once again to the fact that, in accordance with the Law on the Rules of Wednesday, the opposition is given the opportunity to form a day order and to include in it the questions it considers necessary. First of all, it's a question of a moratorium on the price of gas; it's a question of a moratorium on the price of food products; it's a question of an increase in the retirement age already declared in certain agreements. And the inclusion of non-opposed day-to-day issues limits its rights to address these very important issues for society. And we are witnessing that most of the issues that are put into the agenda on Wednesday, at your suggestion, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, are being considered in a reduced procedure, as if to look at the entire agenda that is being considered today. We therefore demand that, once and for all, no Conciliation Council be proposed, because, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Conciliation Council is solely an advisory body, decisions on the agenda are taken by Parliament, you have stopped insinuating with the Rules. And on Wednesday, all the issues that are being raised should be dealt with in full procedure, the issues should be raised solely by the opposition. So we're warning once again, and I don't think it's going to happen again, so there's not going to be any more violations in the future, because we're going to be constantly guided by our rights and we're not going to let anyone take them away from us. That is why we propose to exclude the 7060 issues put into the agenda today by the National MP Simonenko and 7061, because the authors of these bills are not members of the opposition and so today let them deal with these issues in the general order envisaged by the Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's see if we can see that, in fact, on Wednesday, the opposition has the right to form a day's order, that if there are alternative bills, we will continue to include them, not including the opposition, but carry them on to the next day. And that, obviously, could be said during the Conciliation Council meeting, without waiting for a plenary day to demonstrate its principle. At the same time, I invite the First Vice-Chairman of the Regulatory Committee that he has, in principle, defended the Rules in all matters, as it is forbidden in the Supreme Council in the sessional room to place objects and things that have no bearing on parliamentary activity, including. Then you will have the basis for this principled and explicit talk about the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I'm all in solidarity with you in order to ensure that we only do what we're supposed to do. As it is. I'm just not commenting, and I'm saying what was the decision of the Conciliation Board. And when we get to the grain-related bill, I'm going to put your proposal to the vote, because I can't take it off the table alone right now. He will support the Supreme Council, and so on and so forth. Let us put it this way: if there are alternative bills, they raise objections, we will consider them in other days, not in "the day of opposition". Do you agree with that? Thank you for that. Now we're going to consider the draft law on the establishment of a moratorium on the retirement age for women. [[Registration number 7039, 7039-d]] The rapporteurs are Ukrainian national deputies Natalia Královska and Valerij Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The statement by Deputy Prime Minister Tigipco on the mandatory increase in the retirement age for women has caused panic and anxiety among our women. Ukrainian women want to make hostages of inconsistent policies. We have been approached by hundreds of women's organizations, social organizations, and we have been asked to take the initiative to prevent an increase in the retirement age for women. Their indignation is understandable because the pension is the minimum guarantee that the State has to provide. Today we call on you to decide on a moratorium on the rise of the retirement age for women. Why are we talking about a moratorium against increasing retirement age? Women have always played an outstanding role in the history of Ukraine. They have called hard work on their shoulders in the years of peace and in the years of devastating wars and during the restoration of the people's economy. Our mothers have been working hard their whole lives, hoping to get some rest on their pension. And now that they've done nothing for their happy old age, they're trying to force them to work for another five years longer, and I find that cynical and immoral. These are black reforms that are unacceptable in our country. Unfortunately, as men, some policies have failed to negotiate with the IMF, and today they are trying to place their mistakes on the shoulders of women. We are led by the countries of the European Union where they retire at the age of 70. Yes, there are such examples. But can the possibilities of pensioners in Europe and Ukraine be compared? The average old-age pension in Germany is 250 euros and is 10 times lower in Ukraine. In Europe, retirement is the beginning of travel time, in Ukraine, the beginning of survival time. We are told that the retirement age for women, the increase in the retirement age for women, will reduce the pension deficit. Indeed, the economic impact of the innovations in 2011 will not exceed 2 billion grevens, representing only 3 per cent of the deficit — 30.7 billion grevens — of the Pension Fund. In doing so, an additional 180,000 jobs are needed to ensure that women who are unable to retire in 2011 remain in their jobs. Who, what kind of woman can get a job at 60? As a result, an army of elderly unemployed women will be established in the country and will be on the verge of survival. The job will be impossible to find, and the pension will be early. The Government also plans to increase the minimum period of social insurance from 5 to 15 years and to increase the qualification period for full pension to 10 years. Rumors of this have already led to mass panic. Leniency pensions are being established, and teachers, doctors, military personnel are now retiring. With this policy, we will lead the country to the point where no one will be treated or taught or protected. People want to succeed as long as the old rules of the law are in force, to form a pension. When will our citizens stop being intimidated? When will such shocking reforms be stopped? I am convinced that it is necessary to reform the pension system. And probably not just popular measures. But I am also convinced that it is necessary to create conditions for decent employment for hundreds of thousands of women of pre-retirement age before the pre-retirement age is forced by the pre-retirement period. Today, we must all answer the question: What is ahead of our women whom you are depriving of minimum social security in old age for at least five more years? What will happen to those whom you leave alone with illness and unresolved social problems? Dear People's Deputies, the decision on the moratorium on the rise of retirement age take us together, and I'd like to have everyone present their mother, sister, daughter, those who are next to you, who raised you, who supported you, who gave you everything you have today. And tell them that you are ready to increase their retirement age today without creating any additional conditions. No, I don't think a normal civilized person is prepared for that. Therefore, there is a proposal to stop panic, to stop misunderstandings in society, to prevent a tremendous reduction in the number of jobs, to prevent teachers, doctors, members of the mass from being dismissed because of mistrust and retirement. Let us adopt a moratorium and ensure that people are calmly retired and, above all, reform that improves the quality of life, delineate the economy and take care of social guarantees rather than carry out such black shock reforms. Thank you for your attention, I hope very much for your support. I also ask for the support of Bill 7039-d, which we, together with the Committee, together with the Chairman of the Suskevic Committee, have finalized and taken into account all the technical inaccuracies that have been laid down in the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the question. Please put your name on the board. Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u53	Dear reporter, I would very much hate for you to politicize this issue. Indeed, the issue of retirement is a complex social one. But give me the answer: you say, "Here, they retire, they must rest." How many teachers, doctors who receive a full pension, and full wages work today? Does this not prevent those who do not change places today from allowing young people to go and work? That's the first question. The second question. Say, please, if we say, let these people retire, does that mean, by your law, that they are bound to retire tomorrow rather than continue to work? Because if you're so sorry that they're poor, old women, I mean, the vast majority of women who reach the age of 55, they don't recognize that they're retired, they want to keep working. Have you consulted people or is this just your position as a young person? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u54	There's no limit to cynicism, as they say. Have you consulted with people? I told you, dozens of women's social organizations have asked for an end to panic, to stop such shocking statements that today push women to resign and receive an old pension. And if you believe that the social insurance rate today can be increased from 5 to 15 years, which can increase the qualification period by 10 years, and thus improve the social status of our women today, you are unfortunately too far away and too far away from people's views. Young people certainly need to be given jobs and, of course, the unemployment rate that is in our country is unacceptable, but it is necessary to provide incentives for the economy today, and it is necessary to provide opportunities for new jobs and new enterprises. And it is necessary to leave in peace women who today can and can obtain a pension and work. Because the State is not in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u55	Deputy Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u56	Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Natalia Yuriovna, please tell us why, when Julia Timoshenko is going to Europe, she is there promising a pension reform, and she was just saying that reform should relate to an increase in retirement age. So the question is, why do you say one thing in Europe, and when you go back to Ukraine, it's quite different. That's the first question. And the second question. In the bill you propose to set a ten - year moratorium on retirement. Please explain why it is 10 years, not, say, 5 or 20, or 30? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u57	Dear colleague, I think you'd better ask Julia Timoshenko what you mean. But I think the first thing to do is to judge cases. In the case of cases: the most difficult crisis in 2009 and 2008, Timoshenko was able to hold back and not raise the retirement age nor break any months of pension payments within the time limit, nor to allow for the retention of a pension. That's why things, they show real intentions. With respect to 10 years, I believe that this period is sufficient in the normal, stable development of the economy to create decent wages and decent pensions and to ensure the required number of jobs. There are structural changes in pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u58	Yuri Kostenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u59	Dear Natalia Yuriovna, you realize that effective pension policies or social policies are impossible without effective economic policies. Ukraine has a government budget of $37 billion for 48 million citizens. To compare: Poland is $170 billion per 38 million population, Estonia is a 1.4 million population, almost $20 billion of the government budget's income. My question. As head of the Committee on Economic Policy, I think you'd be more effective in solving social issues if your committee had been through such issues over the past few years, such as the cancellation of all licenses and licences for small businesses, tax holidays for at least five years. All of this would enable people to create jobs for themselves. That is why today’s bill, which we generally support, does not solve the main problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u60	Please finish your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u61	So, Natalia Juryevna, today's bill does not solve the main problem that you're facing: raising social standards in Ukraine. Because it doesn't solve the economic problem, the problems of filling the state budget with the funds needed for social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. The first objective that we set out in this bill will calm our women and end the panic that has been sown by politicians and, in particular, the statement by Vice-Prime Minister Tigipco on the inadmissibility of shock today for women. First, I am Chairman of the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Enterprise, not Chairman of the Committee on Economic Policy. Second. Together in the committee, with the participation of all factions, we have been able to develop and adopt in Parliament really serious and progressive rules: that is both a declarative principle and the principle of non-conformity. We have adopted a moratorium on verification, and we have even considered and accepted tax breaks on our first reading. We have adopted a law on public private partnership that has not worked in our country for 19 years. Unfortunately, however, laws often remain on paper and laws are then ignored by officials when the time comes for their implementation. And here I'd like to address you, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u63	Please complete your response. Then Jaroslav Jojik, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u64	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. While going to the elections today’s authorities promised stability today, Honourable Natalia Yuriovna promised to hear everyone’s attention in solving the pressing problems of today’s society. In your opinion, who could have been heard by the new Ukrainian authorities during this time, that they had offered to increase prices for residential services, increase retirement age, propose “dragon” standards to the new Tax Code. Does it not give you the impression that it hears -- the new Ukrainian authority -- just a new oligarchic environment of its own and therefore suggests an increase in retirement age, an increase in housing services for an ordinary Ukrainian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. I would say that the slogan “Standing steady today!” when translated into human language and analyzed the actions and initiatives that we see and the statements that come from the economic bloc of the Government are primarily a steady rise in food prices, steadily rising from month to month, is a steady rise in gas prices, a steady rise in the tariff and utility economy. Because when it is said that gas prices for the population will increase by 50 per cent, if you take and compare payments that come to people, the price not only for gas is rising, both for transportation and for transit, for services. As a result, the steady increase will not be 50 per cent, but all 150 per cent. It is a steady promise and intimidation of women to increase the retirement age, i.e. it is a steady deterioration in the lives of people. This is what I think they meant by stability today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u66	Ivan Hare, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u67	Oh. Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. It's a problem. There's tension with the Retirement Fund. But I think we need to talk about this today, and we need to talk about this a lot more. We're only talking about retirement and why we're not talking about other means. For example, we need to finally figure out the age of 40 to 45, when people retire, we need to deal with those specialties. The other one. We are well aware that the Pension Fund is being filled with wages. So let's fight corruption, let's fight wage withdrawal from shadow. Third. We know that the effective rate of pension for the poor is much higher than for the rich, because at some point the rich don't pay at all. So I want us to talk about this system of questions, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. I fully agree with you that the economic impact of the increase in the retirement age for women in 2011 will not be. In general, the economic impact and the enormous social consequences that may result from an increase in retirement age cannot be placed on the balance glass. Because the additional income of the budget can be only about 2 billion. The total pension deficit will amount to 37 billion dollars. Grieve. So these are not the methods that will solve the problem. We either have to be honest with Mr. Tigipco and answer that the retirement age is likely to rise until the pension deficit is reduced, then it will be up to 95 years, but much earlier our people will be forced to die. Therefore, it is necessary to apply completely different methods: this reduction of concessional pensions, you said correctly, this revision of all concessional articles in the budget, is first of all deterrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, the time for the report is up. Natalia Yuriovna, thank you. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Valerius Suškević, microphone, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u70	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! National Deputy Suškević, Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking my colleague, the Royal Natalia, for his legislative initiative, who has defined the dominance of the situation that exists today in an effort to reform the pension system in Ukraine. What I'm saying is that the issues that have been raised are extremely much of a discussion in society and among pensioners as well as among potential pensioners. But I'm quite confident that today's main factor in pension reform is the optimal option of reform, let's say, which should take into account the priorities of the overall socio-economic relationship strategy in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to some of the very practical questions that are related to what the committee thinks today and what is unfortunately done. In our view, the committee does not think that there can be a pension reform based today on local circumstances, local activities related to the pension system. There can be no question today that's been taken away from other systemic socio-economic factors that exist in Ukraine today. I'm going to bring up a few specific points that are relevant to this issue. First. Today, there has been a rather clear segregation of the busy population in the domestic market. For young people and, excuse me, for old economic activities. Young people have taken over the most paid activities. Pensioners usually work in low - wage budgetary institutions. And today, dear friends, pensioners compensate this low wage, where they work, they compensate another source -- the pension they receive. In fact, today’s working pensioner makes up his living standards of retirement and low wages. Would those young people, for whom we seem to be freeing jobs in such jobs without pensions, want to work with the level of wages that today are paid by pensioners who combine wages and pensions? Here is another question: Is the labor market ready to use the labor force of the age that will be released? How secure will such ones be? Will they not fill the ranks of the unemployed and recipients of various forms of State aid? So it's a question of spending the state budget again. There are no answers to these questions yet. There's another problem. The increase in retirement age is seen as an option to ensure the stability of today’s solidarity system. In particular, by increasing the economic activity of the population, for example, women have a corresponding increase in income from insurance contributions if there is an increase in retirement age. Unfortunately, we do not see the practice of implementing existing legislation, existing pension legislation. Dear friends! I would like to point out that over the last five years, the number of people who have reached the age of 3 years higher than the age of 3 is now active, that is, women 58, men 63, and who are not entitled to a pension, i.e. they are not 5 years old, has increased by 4 times! That is, the number of people who do not have the right to a pension has increased by fourfold, reaching retirement age and receiving assistance from the State, social assistance. There has been a tendency even in recent years. In 2010, the number of such people increased by 30 percent compared to 2009. Now let's think about it. Is this the basis on which retirement age can be increased? It's not real. Well, I'd also like to say that this non-systemic factor in pension reform, it's already been said, has caused a panic. What must be said today in the context of the bill on the moratorium on retirement? First. For today’s reform must be systematic. And it needs to start with a reform of wages, the removal of wages, the stability of the solidarity system, the conduct of certain economic factors by the economic bloc of the government, to really ensure the development of the financial market. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u71	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u72	a gradual transition to the second level of the pension system. Dear colleagues! I want to conclude by saying first of all that there must be a clearly defined plan for state-wide complex measures. I want to say that the committee supported the legislative initiative of a colleague of the Kingdom, worked on it in the context of the law, amending the Law on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance. And he's offering to adopt this bill as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention. Please support and move on to systemic measures for pension reform in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions. Now I ask you to record the desired national MPs to participate in this discussion. Please put the general list on the board now. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Vladimir Karpuk will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I have deep respect for the difficult fate and unappreciative work of opposition. But at least any subject in the legislative initiative, offering a mechanism of social protection should at least understand the essence of the problem. So no propaganda, no labeling, no trying to tempt the opponents. Listen to me, Your Honor, carefully, especially the authors of this bill. First. Ukraine’s solidarity pension system is experiencing a deep and systemic crisis. The other one. The global financial and economic crisis has put Ukraine's pension system on the brink of collapse and collapse. Third. This problem is not purely Ukrainian; it is a global problem; all countries that have touched the Second World War are experiencing the second echo of the demographic catastrophe. But if European countries, starting in the late 1980s, have been working comprehensively and systematically to reform the solidarity pension system, we've slept with you. Pension reform began in 2003, and pension reform stopped in 2005. Today, the average pension in Ukraine is about 1,100 dollars, less Finnish in 14, Israel in 10, the United States in 9, the Polish pension in 4 times, the Lithuanian and the Russian, 2.5 times. At the same time, the public pension budget costs, regardless of the insurance situation, are steadily increasing: 2001 was 9 per cent of GDP, recently in 2008, 15, 2009 almost 20 per cent of GDP. In the Czech Republic it's 8 percent, in Poland it's 11 percent, and so on. And the last. The budget deficit of the pension fund is 26.6 billion dollars. The output, the respected economists, or the growth of the income part, the new taxes the Ukrainian economy will not bear, or the lower costs. Then we get 14 million poor citizens, a sharp decline in purchasing power. Another objective reason is the aging of society. Conclusion. The reform of the pension system should be renewed. If we had continued consistently since the year 2000, the effects would have been milder. I didn't hear the whole thing. It has to be implemented at the legislative level at the second level of pension insurance – mandatory stockpiling, third level – non-state pension insurance. I propose, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, those who really care about this subject, or listening to hold a parliamentary or separate government day on the issue of reforming the pension system. There is no shame in listening to the talk of opposition that does not understand what it wants but wants something. Understand the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u75	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the point is that the pension system is at risk. And another myth. 62 years is the average life expectancy of a pensioner. It's the boys from birth who live less because they're always in some kind of history. After 60 years of retirement, there are 14 men in Ukraine, 25 years of age. And the high pensions of Ukrainian national deputies. Remember, Ms. Queen, the figure. If all the pensioners who are in the hall were to be deprived of this pension right now, every pensioner would get 73 kips. We need to raise pensions from the bottom, not lower the top. Do not engage in wickedness. Pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u77	Thank you. [[Applause]] Vladimir Karpuk is transferring the right to speak from the faction of Viacheslav Kirilenko, the faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Peter Cibenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u78	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Pension reform always has one key problem. It is that the authorities do not want to start a pension reform of themselves. It always wants to start a pension reform from the people, from ordinary people, who are always the first to suffer as a result of this reform. And that's what's happening right now. Never does the authorities want to look at the issue of special and top-of-the-line pensions, because the ones that receive extremely large pensions, they get them under any weather, economic and political conditions in Ukraine, and the people who get a small average pension that they've worked for 40-45 years, they always start a pension reform. And it's not a question of some separate political power. If we say that someone has always been right and someone has always been wrong, it will be a lie, a painful question that needs political will. I'm in favour of the fact that there can't be a bare social population on this issue either, because we need to finally come to the conclusion of pension reform as economic reform. This is said by many independent governments in Ukraine as though they recognized. There was no political will in action. We can't just talk about protecting pensioners without starting systemic economic change. If we have half a shadow fund, where will we get the money to pay off the multibillion dollar debt owed to the Pension Fund, which now covers Ukraine’s State Budget? If we don't cut taxes at least in some part, where will we get the money to pay off the debt to the Pension Fund, if even the only social contribution he'll make is nothing. does not reduce the burden on the payroll fund, so where will the money be used to repay debts to the Pension Fund? If the power of the finger is not going to beat in this direction, and at best just to say so, where will the money come from? That is why we must finally see the reforms that have been promised. But the farmers came, and those who said, "We know the economy best." Where are these reforms? Where did the payout fund come out of the shadows? Where are the reduced taxes? Where is the only social contribution that is more equitable between hired workers and employers? There's nothing to it. On the contrary, we have only political questions in the hall: language, national memory, and other resonant things that people only boil down to, and retirees are no better off than that. That's why we're voting on this bill, but we're calling on the authorities to change politics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u79	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Next up is Scubenko, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u80	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. Perhaps the subject of retirement is the most resonant. Yes, it is. In the hall, there's obviously going to be people who want to submit drafts to the law on the rise of retirement age. Then, on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I would like to bring to the attention of all those who will initiate such bills, as well as the citizens of Ukraine, that the votes of our faction in support of the bill on the rise of retirement age will be no one. We understand that the global trend is to increase the retirement age. Yes, it is. But the increase in retirement age is only possible with a substantial and continuous increase in life expectancy and the significant difference between retirement age and life expectancy in that country. Some of our colleagues want to raise their retirement age by reducing their average life expectancy. Which one of your colleagues says, "Come on, let's do it in Europe." No questions asked. Let's do it like Europe. Just give it all the way in Europe. So let's raise the quality of life, the duration of life to European level, and then we'll solve this. And today we have this situation: the level, the quality, the duration of life in Africa, and the retirement age, we want to set up a European age. We do realize that this is not the case. And there's one more thing I want to say. Dear colleagues, who are not convinced by these arguments that retirement age should not be promoted today, I would like to advise some of my colleagues: Go to the village, not to your furniture, but to the people, to the workers. Find a man who worked with a pig nurse, 20-30 years old, and look at her hands. They are twisted so that they no longer hold a piece of bread. And we're all planning on how we can solve this. And as for the problem of how to solve this issue, the previous speaker raised the problem. Dear colleagues, I understand that there are two sides to any decision. An increase in retirement age is a whip, and let's look for something else, let's look for ways to create conditions where a pensioner himself would be interested not in 50 years of age, but in later. To do this, we need to create some advantages for her in this regard. Then a person will make this decision for himself, and to enforce the law on the rise of retirement age, well, it's hopelessly absolutely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u81	The National MP, Scubenko, hands over the right to speak to Mikola Tomenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I'd like to start over. In my opinion, in such matters, delicate, social, humanitarian issues need a strategic understanding of what the authorities want to achieve. Because it has recently been quoted as saying that highlanders are not talking about bad things, but it does. Instead, the authorities need to speak of what is bad in order to find out how to do what is right. This is the same story. So we promised, we signed, and now we're having a discussion. So I'm supporting our colleagues from the Party of Regions, which was not to be promised from the beginning, but rather to hold parliamentary hearings, to think about how pension reform is done, and then to deal with it. Obviously, the key, the key to society's success is life expectancy, and it seems to me that those experts in the West and our government who disagreed have gone the easy way. They saw that we had middle women, we had women under 74, men up to 62, and they went with a simple arithmetic method. Once women live long in Ukraine, they need to work longer. In fact, the average age in Ukraine is 68, one of the lower in civilized countries. So now we need to think strategically about how to improve some lives, how to increase life expectancy, and how to load up women who live longer under certain circumstances, than men. The next thesis is the relationship between the rise in retirement and pension reform. Of course, a pension reform is needed first. And there's a lot of colleagues talking and then thinking about age. I do not agree with those who say that there is a balance between money there and the importance of a decision, and there is still a problem of morality and justice. Well, let's be honest: elite pensions don't just get MPs, they get seven categories. Well, what justice is there if the deputy minister of the interior in the last month writes 17,000 or 20 thousand and gets 18 or 20 thousand pensions, and we say, "That's a weak filler of the Pension Fund." What's the pension fund for? It's immoral and unfair. And if government officials, or deputies, or militias who hold senior positions receive such pensions, it is wrong to define them. The next problem is related to our other categories, such as the army and the militia. I want to ask you, what, are we at war with someone who can retire when they're 45? Militia, what, does such a serious load do that can go on at that age? So let's look at other flaws in pension reform, and then we have to go back to that. What's more, I think if we look at it, we'll agree that there are certain categories that will agree to a higher retirement age, for example, for civil servants, for example, university professors. So once again I want to say that today we need to think not as such an arithmetically-politically simple step to solve this issue, but today we need to think about how through pension reform to ensure quality of life, to increase life expectancy, and then the pensioners themselves will understand and act with power. Therefore, it is evident today that the increase in retirement age is lifesaving. For women, it's both unfair and immoral. But as an opposition, we are ready to work on pension reform, and we believe that the implementation of pension reform will do everything possible to solve the problems that we are talking about, not the rise in retirement age.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u83	National Deputy Hassuk, BUT faction. Please. Then he will speak, and he will pass the law on to Paul, so I understand. Please, Hasuk. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u84	Thank you. First of all, I want to be heard by our voters and mainly by the women of our Ukraine. When the King’s colleague spoke objectively about why a 10-year moratorium should be adopted to raise the retirement age for women, there are many moments of life in front of her eyes. First of all, our famous Ukrainian literature and the mass of Ukrainian folk songs, where we celebrate our mother, where we celebrate our wife, where we celebrate our children. It is unlikely that any nation has an immensely large inheritance. I want to tell you that after the Royal speech, most of our colleagues wouldn't have asked any questions that were so specific about why we wanted to vote in favour of this moratorium. I want to tell you that these questions that my colleagues have already talked about, and about the 45-50 years of retirement of some categories, they come out as bugs, healthy, you know, and you don't know what they're doing then. This question is that it will probably not solve the situation of increasing the retirement age, improving the state of our economy, and we really only need to start with reforms. I want to think about how we're going to be, those who don't want to vote how we're going to be, in front of us, that we're going to have a conscience, when we say on March 8 each one comes up and greets his mother, greets his wife, greets the team, and almost tears in front of his eyes, saying how he loves this day a woman terribly. Do you understand or not? On March 9, she was to go to work in the field, to feed, to tell anyone, do you understand or not, to get up in the mine in part, to go to school, and to lose her health. I mean, I'd like to go to all of our colleagues and ask them to think about what we want to do. What Europe is asking us is, yes, it is, but we are the Supreme Council in order to find other ways to protect our woman, or to enable her when the masses of young people are working, providing their young families, they are sitting with their grandchildren, they are doing a huge job.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u85	Vladimir Olijnik gives the right to speak to Andrew Pavlovski. No, it's not. Please change. Who wrote me this note? Just a minute. I beg you, fellow believers, not to engage in fornication. That's why I'm telling the MP who came up and handed me a note on what's referring to the right to speak. Just a minute. By the way, let's not at least show our level of cave culture here. I'm talking to the MP who did this, he knows about it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, in my personal opinion, the act itself and the bill are filled with such masculine cynicism and populism. What is the cynicism of this performance? And cynicism is that this is an interesting thesis for those who will vote against: think about your mother, think about your sister, about your wife, about Ukraine. And I want to ask, and Julia Timoshenko, when she twice signed a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund and took on a commitment by Ukraine to raise the Pension Fund, she probably thought about her mother, about her sister, she thought about one woman -- how to win the election, and she didn't think about Ukraine. There was another thesis, and it was very interesting. It sounded like this, and Timoshenko failed to comply with the commitment made to the International Monetary Fund. So say it directly: The International Monetary Fund has been abandoned. But I want to tell you frankly, after these pitches and pitches, the business reputation of Ukraine is declining. Because after these steps, the investor will not come to us, for he knows that if we have done so with the International Monetary Fund, we will do it with them long ago. And the third interesting thesis. And you know, we've actually been up a long time, haven't we? Please tell me, what does a pensioner do in Europe? When he retires, he rests, drives around watching the white world. What does our pensioner do when he retires? He's looking for a job. Because that pension is long overdue. Is it a pleasure to have a man at the age of 70 or 80 working in a docking area? But she has to work because she has no way out. What was to be considered today? Probably not the politicized issue of the pension problem. And there were some things that sounded like. Because if we make a decision, the moratorium, the pensioner won't buy it on this moratorium. The problem here is deeper, and we need to look at why different pensions, look at the productivity of the work so it can grow, see if the economy comes out of the shadow, so that we can take a lot of steps to make the retirement age last, but it was so motivated that someone would do it voluntarily. So I think this bill is populist. The very topic raised by political power is cynical, and the government will take practical steps to make sure that the pensioners are protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u87	Shishkina gives the right to speak to Oleg Lazko. Odarchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u88	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I want to contact my colleagues from the opposition. You know, we did the wrong thing, we didn't have to sign up for this. Let only the leaders of the pro-power coalition from the faction of the region be recorded, and ten times they have been told that they are against the moratorium and the increase in the retirement age. It's the best agitation for their benefit in coffee. But now essentially. Here another colleague asked the Queen's report: "Don't you know that people work when they retire?" So why are they working? If they got a pension like you, 18,000 dollars, they wouldn't work either. Since they receive a pension that does not allow them to survive, the pensioners are forced to work. And when you're here twenty times, the honourable representatives of power, you're talking about Timoshenko signing a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, where she predicted these issues. Yes, I did, but don't fool people! The memorandum signed by Timoshenko provides for a pension reform. What are you doing? And instead of a pension reform, you're a mechanical rise in retirement age! Do you feel the difference between pension reform and higher retirement age?Oh, my God! So pension reform is not just an increase in retirement age, but pension reform is primarily an economic reform, it's when new jobs are created, when jobs are made out of the shadow of pay, new jobs provide additional income to the Pension Fund, an increase in the wage fund provides additional income to the Pension Fund and thus covers the deficit of the Pension Fund. What does modern - day authority do? It's going through the slightest resistance, the "clap" in your head is not going to get the pay out of the shadow, get the economy out of the shadows, because they feed on this shadow economy, right now the government, they decide to mechanically raise the retirement age. We have a budget deficit of the Pension Fund of 29 billion dollars. [[B in m in s a l in]] For maintenance. Please don't interrupt! Please! [[B in m in s a l in]] For a government apparatus, spending on government equipment has increased by 25 percent this year. If the authorities had reduced the maintenance of the government apparatus, we would have just covered the budget deficit of the Pension Fund. This is one of the sources of the budget of the Pension Fund. Others were talked about by previous speakers. I mean, we need to solve the problems of the Pension Fund, not at the expense of ordinary Ukrainians, but especially women who have fallen in love with all the deputies who today say that they are behind the rise in the retirement age for women. And we need to make a systematic pension reform that you just didn't give the government to Timoshenko. Let's go back to power, do it without you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u89	People's MP Odarchenko is transferring the right to speak to the Sanchenko College, the “BUT – Fatherland” faction. The next one will be Uljana Mistpane.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u90	Sanchenko, “BUT – Fatherland” faction. Dear colleagues, the issue under discussion shows exactly how far the power is from the people and how far the policies of the present power are not in line with the real life of the country. This pension initiative, which Mr. Tigipco gave rise to, in fact, to the situation in the country. You know, to show that this is where a colleague of Olijnik's from the faction of the regions, defending the increase in retirement age, said that Timoshenko was signing some papers. I want to say that the main vector in Timoshenko's performance is that every year, worked at the top of the line, if a woman or a man had a job, found it and wanted to work, got one and a half percent of their pension. What now? The authorities are now reducing this figure to one per cent, thereby removing the economic stimulus that our colleagues have been talking about to continue their work. Now, with figures on these initiatives. 55 years ago, a woman would not be able to leave on 1 January, in the opinion of our authority, without retirement. This means that 180,000 Ukrainian women will not retire next year. Tell me, where are the jobs for them? Try a 55-year-old woman who's smart, educated, who's working to find a job. I think it's a very difficult task. Let's move on. 20 years of service required by a woman to obtain a full pension. Now, in the opinion of the authorities, we have to be 30 years of age. But let us be honest, then, that 19 years of Ukrainian independence power has not been able to secure a decent number of jobs. And most Ukrainian citizens have started from the boat business in Turkey, Poland and are still realized in the markets and in the docks that are unformed for work. Where do they get an extra 10 years? Where are the jobs to ensure that all nationals of the country of working age, working age, working age, receive and earn these additional 10 years of service? And finally, let's remember one more thing. Unfortunately, the vast majority of Ukrainian men are unable to maintain a family. Thus, mothers are forced to work instead of giving time to raise their children. Well, that's how we're trying, and we haven't been able to give these very Ukrainian women a full opportunity to raise their children. Let us not at least deprive them of their ability to be normal, full - time grandmothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u91	Uljana Mistpane, BUT faction. I'd like to introduce you to the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u92	Mayor, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Is it really an increase in the retirement age for women, that is, the government is the initiator of this issue, it will radically change the problem, the pension system situation, and it will add more than 20 billion dollars to the pension fund's budget? Who's got that idea? The only thing left to do is think, and the answer is one. Men seemed to live longer than they did. Well, that's what statistics say. And they'll think that women probably live longer because they work harder. Because they work changes at work and changes at home, allowing men to rest. Of course, respectable comrades, it is natural that the requirements of the International Monetary Fund for raising the pension age for women are equal to European standards. In Ukraine, then, it has become fashionable to be European, especially when it comes to retirement age. Indeed, there are many positive elements in Europe, both in the economic sphere and in the social sphere, which are related. And that's why the retirement age for men and women is higher than in Ukraine. It is known that the rise of retirement age in all countries has taken place in a complex, that is, along with other measures: economic, medical, and social. A European pensioner has a very different level than ours, Ukrainian, certainly has health insurance, a sufficient pension, and so on. Which of the women had the opportunity to work at 45-50 years of age, not 55 years of age, but 45-50, will confirm that it's almost impossible. Our employers do not appreciate workers of that age. And these women are only going to the center of employment, which is, if they think in public, they're going to lay on the shoulders of the state, because social assistance and unemployment aid will come right out of the government register. So, of course, you can raise the retirement age for women, but not now, not in the first place. I think right now, first of all, we need to narrow down the difference between minimum and maximum pensions, and now the difference is ten times higher, the dependency on the size of the pension on the size of the insurance job, the beginning of the fundamental legislative changes in the area of benefits and social pensions. And the main thing that the government needs to start with is that, first of all, pay reform, which is to increase wages and get out of the shadow of real wages. So, of course, our block will vote for the moratorium. And why 10 years? Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u93	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u94	There will be changes in the economic sphere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u95	Dear National Deputies! Replicas then, after the question has been resolved. Dear colleagues, you and I have concluded our discussion of an extremely sensitive and sensitive issue. At the same time, let us all say that people understand that today there is no decision in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that produces or foresees an increase in retirement age. But it is understandable why we need to talk about this today. And judging from the way we discussed it, we can conclude that it is not a decision that needs to be made, but a process. And in this process, your honorary colleagues, and in this process, we are working together to destroy the country. And I think that by discussing this issue, we didn't get people's support, but the anxiety has brought and increased people's anxiety. And I think, judging from the discussion of the question, you can come to a conclusion, dear colleagues, I would ask you to be so calm, I'm the chairman and I have the right to sum up the discussion. And please don't just listen to yourself, because I can conclude that no one knows so much that people need to be like politicians who had power yesterday, and they've lost power today. That's when they know what people need. It's a simple question, but we have to fight, obviously, not for retirement and not for retirement, but for salary increases. And I'll remind you, dear colleagues, there were two bills in the Supreme Council that you didn't support on the hourly wages of work so people wouldn't get bullied and paid in envelopes, and on the part of the wages in the cost of production. And I have to say that this question was brought up for discussion, and it wasn't supported. And then we wouldn't be so relevant about retirement and retirement, because people who get decent pensions would retire, and we would have a pension fund. But it is easier to serve the oligarchs that you do all of them periodically rather than listen to what you need to hear. So, dear colleagues, we need to be calm, not emotional about this, because, unfortunately, we have very few people to retire from. Yes, those who have been retired now have an average age of 10 years less than in Europe. And I'm convinced that neither the left nor right parts can close their eyes on this problem. We need to go out for a dialogue, and I support the proposal that we should hold parliamentary hearings, perhaps in turn, if we want to solve the problem for the people. We need a dialogue between society and power, but we don't want to change one part of power to another part, which usually leads to the fact that the situation in the country is getting worse. And we need to find out why things are happening in the country so that we can feel the deterioration of life, the living conditions of the people we care about so much about. Because we all want change, and as one singer said, the famous Soo, we don't know who we want to change. And we're rolling each other in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, we need to discuss the matter calmly. There were suggestions that government officials, judges, and other categories may have a higher retirement age, since they are interested in this. Take a look at the teachers, the scientists, the teachers, but on one condition, that we have inheritance and that we have the connection of generations. And maybe if you ask that question, and we all understand very well that some authorities are going to ask that question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we need to be determined. If from what age, voluntarily, if people want it, how do you do it in order to be an organic process. Your whistle confirms that you don't want to listen! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I realized once again that you need to be disturbed, and you don’t need to have a serious conversation. That's too bad. That's why I'm voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Replica is if someone has a personal appeal. [[B in m in s a l in]] The closing word has a reporter. But not a replica. I'd like to ask you not to yell. Please, don't worry. I'm telling you normal things, I'm not criticizing you, I'm calling for reason. Why are you yelling? What, are you out of your mind? [[B in m in s a l in]] The reply is if the name is called and the closing word is given to the committee head. Please. Turn on the royal microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, we have indeed had an emotional enough discussion of the bill. This once again proves the urgency of the issue. Shock therapy must be stopped, and our women must be left alone. Systemic, literacy and structural reforms have been carried out in all civilized countries since the 1980s, in an integrated and systematic manner. In our countryiz, year after year, reforms are simulated and people are deceived by State guarantees of pensions. The introduction of a moratorium is primarily a chance for the authorities to engage in reforms, to engage in a professional approach, a systemic approach, and not to engage in imitation. Not to translate problems into IMF today, because IMF decisions and IMF recommendations are highly recommended, and they are not mandatory for implementation. And they start sneezing at the IMF when they don't know how to do it right or how to do it literately. We therefore strongly support the parliamentary hearings and believe that this issue must be widely discussed in order for some members of the Chamber to understand the situation of women today and how this question, which was raised by Vice-Prime Minister Tigypto, is resonant in society. We therefore insist that we adopt a moratorium so that the next 10 years do not touch the retirement age of women, but over the years, we will carry out systematic, integrated reform, not deteriorating social levels, not allowing today's job cuts, not allowing unemployment to increase, not allowing the financial crisis in the country. That is why we insist on the bill. And this is a test for politicians today: we work for people to protect our women or we do imitation and demagogies. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u97	Valerius Suškević, please give the committee a closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to address you. You know, you've done something that you shouldn't do about pension reform. You acted like a politician. As chairman of the committee, I did not say any political slogan. I, as chairman of the committee, summed up what was said on the committee by calling absolutely pragmatic specific factors relating to pension reform and turning to power, asked my colleagues about what we're doing wrong by disposing of systemic actions, and systemivity is an axiom of pension reform, and we turned off one local factor and made a mistake. People's deputies today said that, including my colleague the King. So today someone may have made a political statement, but today we need to see the problem of local sporadic action in the pension reform system. And that sounded, starting with a low wage, which in the shadows, ending with the stability of the solidarity system, before moving to the second level and so on and so forth. To conclude, I would like to support the idea, once again, of parliamentary hearings with the participation of the government, with the participation of the profiling committees, because there is still a professional committee that today held a round table with the government and found the solution of the system's pension reform actions without scaring the population by the rise of retirement age. We're afraid of it, and the committee is afraid of the number of letters that people say. We're retiring on an urgent basis. What does this do with the pension fund? Ask our head of the Pension Fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u99	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. The committee's proposal is to adopt the bill as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Replica - after the question has been resolved. We made a deal with you. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft law establishing a moratorium on women's retirement age. [[Registration number 7039]] [[11:58:17]] For 202 The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Timoshenko Block" – 123, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 48, communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 1, non-fractional – 3. I am now voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law on the Establishment of a Moratorium on the Retirement Age for Women. [[Registration number 7039-d]] [[11:58:57]] For 197 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The factions, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, according to factions: Party of regions. Well, it doesn't work! All 27 voted. Region Party – 0, "Timoshenko Block" – 118, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 48, communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 1, non-fractional – 3. I'm willing to vote on the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the Communists were yelling that they weren't working, and we had 27 of them. Calm down, it's all working. Dear colleagues, it's all working! Dear colleagues, calm down! Well, if they can't run, press the button, well, it's not a problem for the chairman. Dear colleagues, calm down. Please. I'm betting on the vote on re-reading the drafts. [[12:00:08]] For 204 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. I ask the committee to prepare proposals for parliamentary hearings on this issue. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Timoshenko Block" – 123, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 48, communists – 27, "Block of Lithuania" – 1, non-fractional – 5. Vladimir Olijnik is entitled to a replica. Please, one minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, come on, please! Well, why are you yelling?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the political power that introduced this bill was more logical if it had done the first thing, it apologized to the Ukrainian people for creating this problem legally. Because these are commitments made by the previous government to the International Monetary Fund and would further introduce a number of bills that would go to reform pension legislation. You have an opposition government, you could use it. I mean, what we did. It was stated that this was not necessary, and it was recommended. So maybe the International Monetary Fund there recommended that we be able to return the money, or maybe not. That's not true. And I'm officially telling you that today I'm showing you this memo, which is written in black and black and white as anyone wants to read, that we made a commitment, and the signature here stands for Julius Timoshenko, and even get rid of each other. On the one hand, one speaker says that we have taken and failed, while the other says that we have not fulfilled such obligations. Take and repent before the Ukrainian people!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, on this note I announce a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning session. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on arbitral tribunals. [[on the improvement of individual positions]] Bill No. 2452, author of the Karmazin Bill Yuri Anatoliyovich, has to report to the head of the Spenov subcommittee and prepare for the committee. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u103	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that is proposed to you is the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on arbitral tribunals, drafted in accordance with the resolution of the session of the Third Chamber on 14 March 2004. And this bill was introduced by me on May 13, 2008. This may raise some questions about the bill. I want to say right now that these questions are going to come up. But I'm going to tell you now the approach that was taken in the drafting of this bill. The approach was aimed at making complex changes to the law, the legislation governing the activities of the arbitral courts. Today, the practice of applying the Third Courts Act has borne witness to its imperfections, as the legislators have overlooked a number of important problems from the status of the arbitral courts to the issue of control, including state action. In order to resolve them, it is necessary to amend this law to: establish effective mechanisms for monitoring the activities of arbitral tribunals in Ukraine, including State control; to remove shortcomings and legal gaps in the enforcement of decisions by arbitral courts; to restrict the competence of the ad hoc courts and to establish strict control over their activities; to clarify the institution of prosecution of decisions by arbitral tribunals; to improve law enforcement institutions; to clarify the status of the Third Chamber of Ukraine; and to empower third-party courts to monitor the activities of third-party courts, including the administration of a single register of arbitral tribunals in Ukraine; to obtain third-party judicial certification; to obtain judicial competence by third-party courts from the third-party tribunal. In my opinion, the draft Law of Ukraine on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on arbitral tribunals, if adopted, will solve the pressing problems of the arbitral judiciary regarding the protection of the rights of legal and natural persons, as well as the most effective implementation of the powers of the Third Chamber of Ukraine by representing and protecting the professional and social rights of third-party judges and arbitral tribunals and by carrying out methodological and editorial work, by analysing the practice of the application of third-party courts, etc. A number of changes and additions are made to this law. I want to tell you that we're predicting such a particular change. This is a change to article 51 prime. Take a look. To complement this law in general, I propose this article to consider the dispute in connection with the newly discovered circumstances. Because there are circumstances that have not been and could not have been known by a person who makes a claim at the time of the case. It is also established by the judgment of a court that has gained legal power for the witness’s well - known false testimony, the expert’s false conclusion, the false translation, the false documents, or material evidence that have led to the approval of an illegal or unfounded decision. This is also the annulment of a judicial decision that has given rise to a decision or a decision that is subject to review. This has been established by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine by the unconstitutionality of the law, other legal act or their separate position, applied by the court in the matter, if the decision of the court has not yet been carried out. So I think that this complement is absolutely necessary. There are also a number of other additions to this law, such as those that offered both detail and the principles of organizing the activities of the arbitral tribunal. I would like to point out that, after I made the changes I proposed on May 13, 2008, it was, of course, two years later. And during that time we worked with you and adopted legislation. Including the adoption of Law No. 1076 on March 5, 2009, where part, a very small part of the proposals I was talking about, had already been settled. This causes problems and misunderstandings. And I immediately saw that in the Ministry of Justice, when we were discussing and clarifying our position, there were some issues that arose, they were talking, and why were they changing? I say, "Dear ones, I suggested this in 2008, when there was no change." And today, in 2009, they were accepted, and in 2010 they're obviously useless. These are the comments that came with this in connection with article 38, which is also the comments made in article 6 and article 12 of the Law, and 58 of the Law. Obviously, these observations do exist. I sincerely thank all those who made their proposals, both to the Supreme Court, and to the Supreme Court of Economics, and to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Committee on Justice, which recommended that this law be adopted in the first reading, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which also issued its positive decision. But once again, we're looking at the law in 2010. So I have two ways out of this question: The first way out is to accept the first reading and correct what's changed life and from these positions to the law. And the second approach, if you take this approach, and I see what might happen, because I know what's going on in the hall today, especially on the day of the opposition when the project is being launched. All the projects. I've never seen an accepted project on the day of the opposition. Perhaps this is my subjective point of view. But, Adam Ivanovich, it's wrong that on the day of the opposition all the laws are rolling, it's a completely wrong approach, a non-professional approach. So so that we don't do too much work, we don't spend the paper on all of this. I'm proposing two outcomes: either take the first reading and fix it all, because there's a majority of the coalition, and it's not a political bill, it's absolutely no political exercise, it's a purely professional bill. And either assigning these things to the committee on the re-first reading, which are completely objective and whatever the name of the author is, Carmazin or Pupkin, there's absolutely no difference. Because in 2009, in May of the year after I started the project, it's obvious that there were some other changes, but they're so partial that they didn't solve all the issues completely. And my bill is absolutely relevant today, because it's complex. Thank you for your attention, and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u104	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. A little note. I think the session room is convinced that Carmazin is not Pupkin. So don't compare yourself. That's the first one. And the others. For the sake of justice, work today has also shown that those projects that match their relevance are supported, no matter who authored it, Yuri Anatoliyovich. He's not sinning. And you're saying that it's really been a long time and something needs to be fixed, and you're asking for the right proposal. Are we going to ask questions? Please sign up. Yes. Please, Mr. Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u105	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, I have the following question. Indeed, no one would deny that an institution such as the arbitral courts should be developed, but there should be a gradation of the matter in the courts of general jurisdiction and in the arbitral courts. But when the law was passed there were no 116 articles of the Rules, do you understand? If we accept it in the first reading, we will not be able to make changes to others, according to article 116 of the Rules. It is known that both the Scientific and Experimental Administration and the MPs' observations require that other articles of this law be amended. How can we do that? Maybe there's a way out of rereading? Put it back and work it out, and fix it again? So that 116 articles of the Rules will still be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u106	Thank you, Sir Sergey Grigorovitch. You got the point of the problem right. Could be a problem. Because given the suggestions you have, you've read them, we're going a little bit beyond Rule 116. By the way, I'd like you, as head of the Constitutional Committee, to consider the question, and does the requirement of the 116th Constitution of Ukraine respond largely? And you'll understand clearly why I asked that question. It does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. And I will be, I'm working on making changes right now before we cancel Rule 116 of the Rules. It limits our authority with you, it leads to the fact that we're here pounding water in the foot just in an equal place. You don't have to do this. Rather, we will be determined when we vote on one article or another. So I agree with you that in this case, the best way out is to read it again. I agree with you. Because then, you have to. And when we make changes to the Rules, I think Adam Ivanovich and all the other deputies will support us when we make these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u107	Do not touch the sacred. Why Make Changes? Yes, please have a seat. Head of the Committee on Justice, Spenov Dmitry Yuriovich. The thought of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u108	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Karmazin Jury Anatoliyovich's bill was discussed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meeting on June 11, 2008. This is another initiative in developing legislation on third-party justice. The author points to the issue of monitoring the activities of the arbitral courts, the need to remove legal gaps in the issue of enforcement and the prosecution of arbitral decisions. It proposes restrictions on the competence of the arbitral courts and specifies the status of the arbitral Chamber of Ukraine. It should be noted that the process of improving the legislation on arbitral tribunals is ongoing. In March last year, Parliament had already introduced a series of radical changes aimed at countering the use of arbitral courts in raid schemes. In addition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recently adopted Bill 4806 of the Pushes of Dmitr Mikitovic on changes to the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code in relation to the first reading. Complaints and executions of decisions by arbitral tribunals. A similar bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters was also considered by the committee. Since the bill was introduced in 2008, some of its proposed changes have already found their reflection in legislation, such as narrowing the jurisdiction of the arbitral courts, and defining the content of the third agreement. However, the bill contains a number of valid proposals which, after being processed for second reading, can improve the Ukrainian Law on arbitral tribunals. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority regarding the bill: it can be accepted as a basis in the first reading. The bill was also proposed by the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, higher educational institutions, and scientific institutions. The committee decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of its first reading consideration of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u109	No questions? Is it? Bondarenko wanted to put in another one. Please give me a chance, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u110	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you a question. Do you honestly believe that the adoption of this bill will change anything in the functioning of Ukraine's judicial system, in my opinion and deep belief, today is thus formed that it will not be able to resolve the issue of any ordinary citizen? This judicial reform, which has been carried out in Ukraine today, has been recognized by the majority of the political powers as one that has been done only for the sake of one political power. What will the arbitral courts decide in this case?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u111	In this case, only questions of arbitral tribunals are considered. Since the Act on arbitral tribunals was amended by Parliament last March, we have ruled out 100 per cent of the use of arbitral tribunals in raid schemes that have sounded and complained to our committee. And to this day, the arbitral courts are a real norm and a very fine institution, a separate institution of law in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u112	Sit down, sit down. Well, please, no, no, no. Dear colleagues, when I asked if there were any questions besides Bondarenko, no one wanted to ask questions. Now there's a question. Then, please, Bondarenko from BUT has already asked, from the Party of the Regions another question and we will finish. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u113	You know, I do not agree with the previous colleague who questioned the professional level of the shadow vice-premier and the best lawyer of Parliament and of the country of Carmazin, that he allegedly prepared the wrong document. Yuri Anatolyevich always cooks what we need. By doing so, he sees that it is possible to improve, that judicial reform has been adopted, that is correct. But where improvements are needed, adjustments must be made. After that, Yuri Anatolyevich passed the bill quite correctly, and he should not be criticized for doing or seeing something wrong. He sees the deep, wide and most important right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u114	Mikhail Vasilovich, is this what you wanted to ask the reporter, is this Karmazin? The reporter will say what he has because he has a boss, the first deputy committee. Thank you, Dmitri Juryovich. Have a seat, please. Yes, are there speakers? If you want to share in the discussion, raise your hands. Yes, I see Sergey Mishchenk. Nobody's insisting anymore? And Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov. Nobody else? Then please. From where? Mishchenka's microphone. Then Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u115	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I wanted to ask the committee representative a question, but I didn't give it a chance, because the first part of the report was that we had already changed, and the second part of the report was that we should take it as a basis. I don't know how the committee's own report came together. And I didn't realize, if everything was done, then why accept it? And now, essentially. Regarding the fact that the arbitral courts were actually involved in the raids, especially in land grabbing. Because we didn't have to go to the general courts, to the administrative courts. We had to approach the arbitral judge, make appropriate invitations, appropriate preferences, and this decision had already entered into force. And it is possible to legitimize hundreds of thousands of acres of land throughout Ukraine on those owners who have no bearing on state property. Indeed, the people have the only one who can rule this earth. Sadly, though, the arbitral courts had it so arranged to enrich a small group of our citizens. In fact, laws have been passed that now make it almost impossible for such raids to happen. But they do exist. And that's why there are valid remarks in this bill that make it impossible to capture both municipal property and land, and so on. And so you have to figure out here whether we need to change legislation to take into account the changes that were made in March this year, don't we need to do that? So I think that today, under article 116 of the Rules of Procedure, we will not be able to prepare for the second reading really a bill that would now address the problems that exist in Ukraine, the delimitation of the competence of the arbitral courts and the general courts. Because in some things they cross. So I would still say that we should re-read this bill, re-read it. And then we'll talk about really reforming the arbitral courts in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u116	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch. Please, Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, really, the rights of author Karmazin, that today the practice of applying the Law “On Third Courts” testifies to his imperfection, because beyond the attention of the legislators, there are really many issues left, and especially that I am concerned about many issues, control problems and particularly state control. And to do that, their solutions really need to be changed. However, I would like to point out this. We're talking about openness, transparency in all trials in the state, not just in the courts. And Democrat Carmazin proposes to prosecute cases in arbitral tribunals in such a culinary manner, blurring out the procedure for considering the new principles of organization of activities he proposes to introduce into article 4, I mean the principle of autonomy of the third agreement and especially the principle of confidentiality. If they support such proposals, they say that it will only be possible for the arbitral tribunal to deal with the matter in an open session with the consent of the parties without any connection with the confidentiality of the information that is being considered. In such cases, a closed hearing by the arbitral tribunal may give rise to an improper decision without a reasonable basis. I mean, questions about the rights and obligations of third parties who do not take part in the matter will be raised, why it should prevent an open discussion of the dispute. Such changes would, in fact, not be in line with article 29 of the Third Courts Act on the publicity of the arbitral hearing. And for the same reason, indeed, these principles are not in line with the organization and activities of the arbitral tribunal of article 4 of the bill. And this second question that I would like to make my comments on the project is the possibility of creating permanent arbitral courts in the territorial communities and local self-government associations. It should be said that arbitral courts deal with civil and commercial matters, and they are formed by appropriate entities that either participate in such relations or unite or represent the interests of the participants. The territorial community is not the subject of such relations. Territorial communities are not subject to registration for the creation of permanent arbitral tribunals, which is also contrary to the Arbitration Courts Act, which can be established and operated by entities registered under the current Ukrainian legislation. There are other comments that are described by the scientific and expert department, so I'd like to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u118	Thank you. Question completed. There's a few words in the report. Please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u119	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely thank all those who have joined in the discussion of any position. This was said, especially with regard to the last reporter, evidently not everything was understood. I'd like to put some emphasis on that. The first accent. The decision of the Justice Committee states that the committee supports the legislative initiative of Deputy Karmazin and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the results of the first reading of the draft law. One. The main scientific and expert office also believes that this law can be based on the following observations. With regard to the comments that they wish to pursue, to make a secret consideration, and so forth, it is suggested that the principle of organizing the activities of the arbitral court of confidentiality be added to article 4. What's wrong with that? But there is no such principle. They keep quiet about it, and that's what we need to talk about. How is this being considered? How does publicity work in practice? So in order for this to happen, I'm writing that this confidentiality and this publicity, and you know that it only takes two sides to agree, only then the case is being tried in the arbitral court. It can only be before an open court when there is agreement on the sides of the dispute, because they have not gone to a public court, they are tried in an arbitral court, they do not trust the court and so on. This is a special feature of the arbitral courtship. As for article 34, where there are participants in the arbitral review. On the contrary, I propose that a third party be involved in the written consent of the third party for the initiative of the arbitral tribunal. For if there is no written consent of the third party, she will say, and I will not confess any of your judgments, and I will not go there. And from a legal point of view, your decision about me may also be that I don't admit it, but duty and volunteering are the principles that should be taken into account. As a result, I would ask that when stones are thrown, a little bit more balanced. I'm normally referring to rocks, if it serves the growth of the plane that people walk on, but I don't take the stones that they throw to destroy something that someone else is building. I'm used to building and I'm asking you to accept the bill as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u120	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I don't think the stones were thrown at you, especially if you listen to Chechchev's words. You're absolutely right, there are positive conclusions from those organizations that you're talking about. Only one "but". All of this was done more than two years ago. During that time, you can see for yourself that a lot of water has escaped, and a lot of new laws have been adopted by the judiciary. So I think it's clear here that it would be more logical to re-route the first, but it's a session hall to identify. I put to the vote Bill 2452 – Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on arbitral tribunals. [[on the improvement of individual positions]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:57:37]] For-126 Not supported. There was an offer, my dear fellows, and I ask you to support it: send the bill for a re-reading of the first reading. Please vote. [[12:58:01]] For-126 It's 126 again. The bill has been removed. We're looking at Bill 3228. I'm sorry, 7037: a bill introducing tax holidays for small businesses. The Royal Fellow's Project. Please, both from the committee and from the author. Natalia Yuriovna, can we look at it briefly? He doesn't want the author. All right, let's look at the whole thing. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I suggest you just consider it quickly. Dear Adam Ivanovich, this is the second bill, which does not have any systemic changes in legislation, but which is of a warning nature: to avoid making a mistake. In the first bill, we discussed the need to leave women alone and give a positive signal to society. Unfortunately, it didn't work. I now propose to leave small business alone because there is a situation where small business in our country today is on the verge of disappearing. And it is not at all a global crisis that is coming to an end in most countries. Let us remember the history of small business in our country. During the 1990s, hundreds of thousands of people were forced into business, and at one time they were unemployed. They did not wait for help from the State, but at their fear and risk they took an entrepreneurial initiative – not only were they able to earn money for their family, but they also created new jobs, raised whole sectors of the population. In fact, they are not businessmen in the sense of Europeans, but self-employed people, who thus survive and enable people to survive around them today. In the elections, virtually all political forces went with slogans to protect the support of small businesses. The electoral initiative was supported by both experts and entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, however, after the election, the carriage of promises becomes a pumpkin of reality. And listen to what the economic bloc of the Government says today, and there is no reduction in fiscal pressure and no reduction in administrative pressure. And today our little business has died in horror and in anticipation of what will happen next. There are economic indicators at the same time: both the decline in investment and the economic situation in the country cannot be determined as soon as possible. A new wave of the unemployed cannot be allowed to flow into the country. And if we don't support small businesses now, in a few years, we'll have a country with tens of big companies and millions of hired people who will claim social benefits. No budget will withstand such a tremendous burden. Meanwhile, world experience has shown that small business is a pillar that holds the economic independence of different parties. developed countries. In our budget, in our domestic gross product, small enterprises account for no more than 15 per cent, while the figures in developed countries are higher. We have 75 small enterprises per 10,000 population, one of the smallest indicators, even less than in 2007. And the crisis that we experienced in 2008 and 2009 also showed how unstable the economy is and how export-dependent it is and is crisis-prone when metal and chemistry giants are at the core. We believe that there is a conclusion from this situation as well. Tax breaks for small businesses can be an incentive to revive the production and service market today. Business needs to give a positive signal that they are ready to support, understand and are ready to create normal conditions and business climate. It is now clear that there are neither two nor three laws in place for real changes in the economic situation in the country. And the better the law, the more the resistance of a bureaucratic machine. Because there is a need for a comprehensive change in the system as a whole. Because it's all good that we've been seeing and accepting you for the past two years, the administrative machine eats like a minotaur -- all the positive changes. All 19 years of independence, business feels under constant prescribing. Almost every six months, the rules of the game are changing, and entrepreneurs cannot adequately plan business plans or strategies or investments. It is not surprising that in the crisis 2009 business profitability was around 9 per cent, this year the profitability has already dropped to two per cent, that in 2008 the share of loss-making enterprises was 38 per cent and in the first half of 2010 the share of loss-making enterprises was already 48 per cent. Ukrainian society, the economic elite, still does not understand what kind of economic model we are building: liberal market, socially oriented or inertial post-Soviet. Despite various reform programmes, we see that there is no single map of reforms, no common understanding of the objective, and there is a closed circle of mistrust. As a result, we have the worst economic ratings on almost all indicators. And in 15 years, Ukraine has received only 40 billion investments, when a normal developed country with the potential of us gets that amount at least once a year. It's just that the domestic business has stopped. He was afraid to invest in himself. And we offer a perfectly normal, calm norm, which is not political, but which is economic, in order to send an adequate signal to a small business today: to introduce tax breaks before 31 December 2006 and to free small businesses from value added tax, income tax for individuals, fixed tax and a number of payments. These holidays will apply to those who produce agricultural products, process them, and provide domestic services to the population. I will note that these benefits will not be granted to all, but only to individuals who carry out business activities on their own without hiring employees, i.e. those who earn a living with their work and skills. Please support this important bill, this really important signal for our small business today, for the self-employed population. Because those scarecrows we hear about the Tax Code, those constant nervous statements today add economic instability. I also address the people's deputies. Today, at 3 p.m., parliamentary hearings will be held in the Parliamentary Chamber: “Economic reforms are the realities and expectations of Ukrainian business”. I believe that we must make those reform proposals that come from the economic bloc of the Government today, from Deputy Prime Minister Tigipco to the debate and realize that they are useful and that there is something useful and that needs to be fundamentally changed today. Because there is no need to undertake a shock reform for people in the form of pension increases of retirement age, there is no need to initiate today a shock reform for business with increased pressure on entrepreneurs. Today we need to undertake a shocking reform for bureaucrats, and this is the first thing we need to talk about. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u122	Any questions? Sign up. Please, Bondarenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u123	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Mrs. Natal, today you're passing extremely relevant bills, and unfortunately for women, those who have promised a happy and good life today have not voted for it. I think that this bill, which is extremely important for business, in order for people to even be sure of what parameters they're going to work on, they're going to fail. Nevertheless, the work you have done, as a national deputy, and as a committee manager, deserves great attention. I think every person in Ukraine needs to know today: who wants to do what they can to make sure that there is stability here, that every family survives for. Maybe not for the state, but for themselves, that the state gets less involved in small businesses. So I would like to initiate and ask you, perhaps, to discuss or in an all-U.S. small and medium-sized business forum the problem of the Tax Code that is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u124	Thank you for asking. Indeed, last night, you know, you received a version of the Tax Code, which you already tried to do as much as possible. We see that the most divisive norms from there have been taken away, but there are enough controversial norms that are, and unfortunately also do not appear in the Tax Code, a clear, understandable and clear signal for business, which economy we are building, what is the purpose of reform and what role of business. Because we all have to report, without a strong business, there will be no strong economy in our country. There will be no pension fund, no social funds, no strong infrastructure. Ukraine has enormous economic potential and enormous people today willing to realize this economic potential. Unfortunately, however, the enormous barriers that officials do not want to break, and our task is to give it as much as possible to discuss with people and to hold as many public hearings as possible, not closed discussions on the Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u125	Please, Joey Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u126	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Natalia Yuriovna, it is very commendable that we are considering this very important bill today. I would like to stress that the Ukrainian People's Party has been one of the first for many years to initiate tax holidays for small businesses. Today, it is well known that one of the pre-election promises also had a promise to introduce tax breaks for small businesses. But it's been more than six months now, but not that this scenario has not been implemented, the introduction of tax breaks for small businesses, and that tax code will actually try to eliminate small business as a class, but at the same time it creates huge benefits for certain sectors of the national economy. In your opinion, what effect would such an approach have on the entire Ukrainian economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u127	Thank you for asking. Until the legal field benefits more than the illegal field, until we have more than 45 per cent of the shadow sector in the economy. And we remember everything, like European countries, and America has done business legalization: at first, the rates have been severely reduced, all supervisory authorities have been severely reduced, and businesses have been able to demonstrate themselves, create conditions that make it more convenient and more profitable to work in the legal field. And I'm sure that, mentally today, the Ukrainian business has matured to pay taxes, moderate, adequate taxes. The Ukrainian business is tired of sleeping with its eyes open from a neurosis that is constantly present in unintelligible, uncontrollable acts of power. And now we believe there is a need for a common economic policy, not every time for a tightening of sanctions by the tax police, but for the establishment of additional tax controls, and for the extension of the powers of the tax authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u128	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u129	Enhancing the powers of the tax authorities that we see again in the registered Tax Code. We need to leave business alone and then we can really create a completely different economic field and completely different opportunities in our country. And I thank you for your support, and I hope that the test that we have proposed today for all the people's deputies who will be going to the polling campaign in the district in the coming days and meeting, including with small businesses, will be indicative: that is how we are for the people who are taking the business initiative, or we are for the serious major companies, the State monopolies that are currently conducting the decompetence within the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u130	Interestingly, it was difficult to do so earlier. Gordijenko's handing over Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u131	Adam Ivanovich, if you check it out, I've already filed it ten times, so that's not the question for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what is needed today is to maintain small business, I don't think it raises any doubt. But when I look at your previous bill, I'm talking about a moratorium on retirement, and the faction of Communists, as you've seen, unanimously supported it, we've talked to you about the fact that in filling up the Pension Fund today there are very, very acute problems and they need to be solved. Yes, it must indeed be done. So please tell me, what possible budget losses and the Pension Fund also, I mean in Ukraine as a whole, will your bill be put into effect? Unfortunately, along with the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u133	Thank you so much for asking, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u134	Complete, please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u135	Unfortunately, along with the draft law, you did not make such calculations. An explanation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u136	Thank you very much for the question and thank you very much for the support and understanding of the role of women in Ukrainian society today, and for understanding the role of small business. Because in terms of filling up the Pension Fund, as I have already mentioned, raising the pension age to address the 37 billion deficit. The bracelet cannot be solved and an integrated approach is needed. And the main challenge that we must face is to create the conditions under which business will fall out of the shadows when business will benefit from working in the legal field and all the political forces present here in the hall have supported such norms. But Adam Ivanovich correctly said, why was it not accepted before? And before that, we remember that we didn't have enough votes, that we didn't have enough initiatives, that someone was always in the way. Because it's scary to let the business take two steps forward every time, it's easier to pull it back all the time. And the main challenge that we have to solve is detonation. 45 percent of the economy is in the shadows.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u137	Have you finished Natalia Yuriovn? Please, Kovalevska Jula.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u138	Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please pass the word to Baldyrev.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u139	Baldiriev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u140	Dear Natalya Juryevna, you said we have a small business that is 13%, 13% of GDP, as I understand they produce. In developed countries, more orderly. It's ten times in order. Ten times that is 130 percent. Please call me a country in which, well, I think 30 is an exaggeration, is not an exaggeration, but call me a country in which it would be at least 100 per cent. At least one country is an example. That's my first question. And the second question. Unfortunately, I have not seen in your bill a mechanism to counter the real practice that is that there are really no small entrepreneurs, and there are in fact an enormous number of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u141	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u142	wage earners from large entrepreneurs who portray and actually sell goods belonging to their boss and work for them. Would it not be appropriate to repeal your law and develop such a mechanism to counteract such shameful practices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u143	Thank you so much for asking. Well, I don't know where you heard about 13 percent, I was talking about 15 percent. Indeed, small business GDP is up to 70 per cent in developed countries. You can take statistics. The other issue is that, as of 1 July 2010, 3 million 101,000 entrepreneurs are operating in Ukraine. If a minimum of 50 per cent of them were taken conditionally, without employment and provided that the law was extended to traders, it could be said that more than 1.5 million entrepreneurs would be covered by the law. And the law will allow them both to save working capital and to develop and create additional places. We must understand that today's small business in Ukraine is self-employed people. We have to treat this as the people we've managed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u144	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u145	Like people who have been able to take the initiative and create jobs. They didn't go to the unemployment fund, they didn't go to get extra benefits, they didn't go to the state or swear money. And when you're winding down a small business today, at least 200,000 people who can't work under new conditions will lose their jobs. Here's the cost of the budget when 200,000 people lose their jobs, then you're all together, and you're going to figure out the consequences of eliminating small businesses. And what you're saying is that all the small business today works under big businesses, I recommend you just go to any market and see how our small business contains a small larek; a business that organizes a few jobs; and how they do private practice. And get out of the Parliament Hall -- and understand what a small business is, go through this school and get into the skin of entrepreneurs, so as not to make such disrespectful statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u146	Please, Pavlovsky. No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Have a seat. There is no discrimination – there is a rule. Yes, we will discuss the matter. Please sign up for factions. And from the people's deputies. Yes, please, 30 minutes to discuss. Lapina, “Our Ukraine”. Prepare Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u147	Xenia Leapina, political party “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, we are aware that this law will probably not be passed in the Supreme Council Hall, but it gives us the opportunity to finally raise the fundamental question: what does the country expect from small businesses? And this is a fundamental question that has not yet been answered. Let's see what the current authorities are doing today by proposing an already registered and published draft of the Tax Code, and you don't hide it anymore: it's all written there. Today, small and medium-sized businesses are expected to be the main taxpayer. Because industries are given benefits, big business is given preferences, and small and medium-sized businesses have to fill the budget. I'm going to tell you, dear colleagues, that this is a hopeless thing, because in no country in the world, small and medium-sized business is the main taxpayer. What, then, is expected of small businesses in the developed world? And you know, one very simple thing: the only way to absorb labor, to create jobs in today's conditions is to do small business. There's nothing else. The big business optimizes its spending by reducing jobs. An effective big business reduces jobs. And that's natural, that's the nature of the economy. Where do people go? And here's the main question. People are absorbed in small and medium - size business that responds to the situation. There's an excess of labor -- it's booming small businesses, it's creating small jobs, it's making a penny, it's making two or three jobs for its fellow countrymen. And in all the countries of the developed world, it has long been decided that small business taxes are secondary. Dear colleagues, this is secondary. This is not the main goal. They're paying for a copy. Thank you. But the main thing is they created a job. And there's no social pressure on the budget, people don't go to the Employment Fund, they don't ask for money, they don't ask for social assistance, they work, they earn themselves -- it's the main feature of small businesses. So the bill actually suggests simply putting everything in its right place. Small business is not a source of budget replenishment, but it is a way to address the most important social function of the state, namely to provide people with jobs. That's why it's the foundation of democracy, so it's the base of the middle class, because it's people who don't depend on anybody, and it's not about anyone with their hands stretched out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u148	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u149	So, dear colleagues, I ask you to take this seriously. It's easy to destroy, it's very difficult to grow. Then for decades we'll cry to each other, and it'll be very difficult to rebuild small business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u150	Please, Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT. Behind him is Chechtev. Serbian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, our faction supports this law, but I will allow myself to disagree with the distinguished author in one of her positions with Natalia Juryovna. She says that there is no need to introduce shock therapy for small businesses. I'm sorry, I don't agree, because she's been reinstated by the new government for a long time. Take all the decisions that are now being proposed that say that we are raising political issues. Well, instead of doing, for example, housing reform and giving a smaller percentage of our budget, although it's been approved, we're raising the price of gas. And then next year, we're going to raise gas prices again, because we're going to blow this money up and burn the $100 coupons. Instead of doing pension reform, we raise, we try to raise retirement age. That's exactly how we want to remove the skin of those people who earn state and property and the power that can't give them jobs. What is wrong with this law? What's wrong with the idea that the authorities should now give them free work permits to put this job in place? So let's do something for someone who wants to work because of the incompetence of power. No one tells him what to do in the center of town. The rules remain. But why are we running it around, and he's walking around this circle for six months, and then he's still paying money to do small businesses? What's going on? We have a very nice painting. How do we prepare for the Euro-2012? We'll have grandmas and people trading out of asphalt again. So what are we going to do under Euro-2012? And we're going to get our militia involved, and we're going to move them out of Kiev to stay out of trouble in front of Europe. Is that a better way to get the benefits? It's a different matter. What is wrong with not obliging them to pay the land tax now? How much land does a small entrepreneur take alone? We know that too. And that. And the support of the small business that Mr. Crnovecki made in Kiev by his young talented team has allowed people to now stand where it's impossible because they can't pay taxes on land and just bribe our orderly militia. So Natalia Yuriovna was talking about one and a half million jobs, so I'm telling you, I don't agree here either, she's reduced the figure a little bit. Now it's 420,000 builders.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u152	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u153	420,000 construction workers lost their jobs because of the crisis. But 210 now, I know, went into a small business and worked there for maintenance and repair of apartments. So, what, we're going to be taxing them for the added value? Where will a young person in his 20 ’ s go? Who's that? Where's the guarantee that she won't go into drugs or gangs? So let's think about it and let's adopt this law because it's useful to our nation and to our people. This is the least we have to do for our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u154	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready for Baldwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u155	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I'll come from this platform and support Natalya Juryevna and criticize her. Well, I'll start with backup. You know, I can't help but agree when a question was asked: Why didn't you vote that law before when you were in power? And she, laying her hand on her heart, said both one of the leaders of BUT and the “Fatherland” party, absolutely right: we didn't have the votes. That is, as one of the leaders of BUTT and Fatherland, she recognized both de jure and de facto that in the past power we had no majority and no coalition, it was all butaphoria. I agree, I won't argue. The second question is now in relation to the question. I have already spoken from this rostrum about how the draft policy differs from the pro bill. The fact is that a politician makes a bill to get political dividends — in the eyes of voters, before elections and so on — and a professional makes a bill for the cause, for the country, for the people, for the economy. The third point is the difference between a professional and a politician when he prepares a document: a politician says in general, a professional thinks it's numbers, and he justifies each number. So if you look at the bill, it says here, you have to eliminate seven kinds of taxes, you have to introduce vacations, and why not eight instead of 12? Because that's what the politician says. And if he were a professional, there'd be a kandashi, there'd be specific amounts, how much is budgeted, what a nuisance, rather than compensation. That's a politician who doesn't care about sums. We need dividends for the election. Finally, the last. Well, if a system document is being prepared, it can be said that the current tax revolution, the real Tax Code, is a real tax constitution that has passed. Five months were discussed in society, round tables were held. Today, as the President has rightly said, the debate will be under the roof of Parliament, the bill will not be passed from scratch, there will be a first reading, there will be a second reading, there will be a second reading, there may be a month or two of this bill. So why, without any political butaphorism, calmly submit to the committee for second reading or first reading and already in the body of this larger system document to implement this small solution? We are clearly and possibly in this tax constitution there may not even be seven but eight laws. We may eliminate the eight tax burdens of small business today, but this will be taken into account in concrete terms. We therefore propose not to vote in favour of this law to refer Natalia Jurievna to a working group that will refine the system document that is called.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u156	Thank you. Please, Yuri Baldirev, prepare for Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u157	Baldyrev, Party of Regions. Let us indeed take a constructive note of this discussion today. Instead of using the rostrum for political agitation that Natalya Jurievna is showing us, let's do something useful. In my view, the root of evil in all these small business problems is that in reality small business is an absolute minority. And those numbers that were called there, one and a half million, three million, that's all butaphoric. In fact, small businessmen are infinitely smaller, and all the rest are hired workers who are formed as small businessmen because they do not have their working resources because they do not have their own protection and they are forced to work with large entrepreneurs by portraying themselves as small businessmen. If you come to any large shopping center and find a huge number of allegedly small businessmen there, but explore this question more deeply, you will find that they are actually hired workers and in fact all this business belongs to some big businessman who owns the mall itself, the premises. Similarly, in the market, you can go in the ranks not where grandmas trade potatoes and tomatoes, but where container people trade things. And you will find everywhere the weight of the advertisement: “necessary seller”, “necessary seller”, “necessary seller for that”, “necessary seller for another product”. So it's not a small business either, it's actually employees who are made into small businesses. In fact, all of this gives rise to a mechanism for tax evasion for large businesses. Because, of course, the owners of all this product, the owners of all this business, do not have a income of 300,000 per year, but an inestimable amount. And so he's doing a little bit of his business, he's taxing. So this solution is really interesting to the State, because it's really interesting to separate the grain from the weeds here, so it's an opportunity to work more honestly, get out of the shadows, get a tax on the State and give people a job at the same time. And all the rest, unfortunately, is conversation and demagogy. The bill therefore needs to be returned, refined and tried to write out such a mechanism to separate the real small business from its butaphoria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u158	Please, Pavlovsky. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u159	Andrey Pavlovski, BUT, the “Fatherland” party. Dear fellow countrymen, we are all witnessing that our Ukrainian society is now experiencing a severe shock from the actions of today’s authorities and especially a category such as the small and small business that Yanukovic promised five years of tax vacations before the elections. Instead, we got a tax Gestapo instead of a tax code that essentially eliminates this tax Gestapo as a small and small business class. So why doesn't the government of Azarov live up to Janukovich's promise and actually eliminate small businesses, people who are self-employed, who provide for themselves and their families. And because we now have ten clans of oligarchs who control really more than 80 percent of the economy, and they don't need the self-sustaining people themselves, they need a hired mass, combined with their TV channels, that will only bring them top profits. That's what they need! They need only these ten clan families who control everything and everything, including Janukovic's power. We need to understand that without a small business there will be no future in our country's economy. And that's why we have to do everything we can to support these people, because these people have their families behind them, and the 3.5 million that the reporter was talking about, we have to multiply by three more members of their families, and that's how many families are now kept at the expense of small businesses. And you don't have to think that it's just those who work for these oligarchs and find money for small businesses because of those who have a simplified tax procedure. It's not like that, it's people who make their own intellectual products, and they create goods, and that's what the bill says. We should primarily support those who own themselves, who don't use employment, that's for them, those little benefits from the laws that our opponents in the Party of Regions have been talking about and who don't want to support these people. So draw conclusions as to what kind of occupation we have!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u160	Jaroslav Jojik, please get ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u161	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian People's Party has for many years taken a fundamental position on the need to create favourable conditions for small and medium-sized business development. One element of this is the provision of tax breaks for small businesses. Realisms show that many political forces in previous electoral campaigns have demonstrated their desire to give tax holidays to small businesses. But experience shows that if they take power, they immediately forget about their promises. Thus, objectively speaking, there is an extremely thin line between populism and real constructive mechanisms in this approach to tax breaks for small businesses. So today, our joint task is to leave populism and leave only real constructive mechanisms that will actually give tax vacations to real small businesses. That's why I wanted to put the Ukrainian People's Party's position on the basic principles of tax incentives for small and medium-sized business development. Tax promotion of business, establishment of business, is particularly important for the development of a small business. At the same time, our approach is that it should not be a company and a temporary step. There should be no temporary benefits up to one year, but a permanent tax incentive system for small businesses, especially those who start their first business. This should not simply be about self - employed persons but, in general, about entrepreneurs who do not exceed a certain amount, whether they work alone or, for example, with family members, or whether they have employed persons. So the tax incentive system for small business should be based on certain principles. As I said before, the formation, not of temporary, but of a permanent tax promotion system, of a simplified system of taxation and tax accounting and reporting. When it comes to promoting the average business and initiating a business by individuals with a certain level of capital, starting, for example, with the sum of more than a million, first of all, we need to move on to the generally accepted practice in many developed countries of reducing in the first year the activity of new enterprises, the income that is subject to taxation, to the sum of all expenses of a capital character. And to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u162	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u163	I propose to support this bill in the first reading, in preparation for the second reading, so that all the populism weavings will be left behind, and really only the real, constructive mechanisms that will give tax vacations real for small businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u164	Please, Vladimir Oilynik, Party of Regions. Prepare Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! We're looking at the populist draft of the law, the populist one, and the form, and essentially. If he had a subject today, for example, the Tax Code and we would be having a discussion about what to do with small businesses, and the government is predicting tax holidays. It was a subject of serious conversation. It's just a moratorium. You know, this is what it looks like in life when a patient comes to a doctor and he says, “We will impose a moratorium.” So we're not gonna do anything. There's a problem. It should be taken seriously. Because you know very well that when we release someone from taxes, extra pressure will fall on someone. This is also a Ukrainian business. And let's see if it hurts on the spending side, because there's pensions, social benefits, and so on. And in this respect, it has to be a serious discussion, with a pencil, with numbers, and so on. That didn't sound like it. I understand if the subject were next. When the previous government, the previous coalition made a positive decision -- tax vacations by the age of 16. And we're breaking it down right now, and they're protecting it. This was not accepted because they consciously understood as authorities that it was populism. And the point of the seat determined, determined the position. So the seat was defined by a clear position – populism. Today the question is raised to raise your rating. But people are smart. They've never heard of this before, from these walls of Parliament: moratoriums, moratoriums; and then, the distinction, the distinction, and the distinction. So we are ready for a serious discussion. She'll have room. Small business will have support, but we have to do it in a complex, because there's an economic problem, there's a shadow economy problem, there's a non-payment problem, there's a pension fund problem, there's an external liability that you borrowed, and there's a debt that we're going to pay. I'll tell you, we have to answer at least the question: “From 16 billion where is the money business?” was thrown into banks. But you saved the individual and where did you save the banking system? Why can't a small, medium-sized business get credit today? And today's government has borrowed 1 billion 800, 1 billion, the National Bank to strengthen the additional currency, and 800 million, the Treasury just in case, to support our ability to pay. That's the difference between approaches. So stop this populism, it's cheap, and you won't buy people for it anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u166	Thank you. Please, Yuri Odarchenko, BUT. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u167	Yuri Odarchenko, “Paternity” Party, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, you've all seen a very large number of runners before the presidential election, where it was written about tax holidays that Victor Fedorovich Janukovic promised. It was one of the main slogans of the current president. Today we're hearing from one of the coalition's speakers, and he says that the moratorium bill was prepared by politicians, not experts. We have his words, when President Janukovic, when he went to the elections, he was a politician and he promised everything he could, being a populist, and when he became President, he became an expert and changed his mind. Dear friends, we stand before the local elections and remember this, to remember it is absolutely necessary, for when you are conveniently a politician, when you are in other circumstances, you are an expert. Today, dear colleagues, what's going on? Instead of constructively implementing the promises made to the voters, the coalition decided to solve its problems through “cushions”. And, I think they need to hold some scientific seminar called "Cats" in Ukraine's new history or "Cats" as a stabiliser of power. This is certainly an achievement. I'm sure that historians will discuss this method in politics that the Party of the Regions has used -- carcases. We saw two days ago the “carcase judges” established by the Constitutional Court -- they were brought here under, you know, under the protection of physically high-ranking representatives of the Party of the Regions. Founded, they took an oath from this rostrum to continue their policy with carcasses. Dear friends, the slogan “No Retirement” is behind me. And I'm sure that this bill, it's clearly going in the direction of not raising pensions, not raising, I'm worried about retirement age. It is not about raising the retirement age but about increasing the employment of the population, including in the area of small business. Thus, the adoption of the moratorium is an essential means for our nation today. I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u168	Yuri Carmazin, what's he gonna say?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I will say that what is happening today in the state, when one in four, one in five companies closes because of such a wave of checks, cannot continue. And the Royal Bill is absolutely correct, because it only applies and extends to tax payers who carry out, read in part two of article 2, what it wrote, which makes the production of goods other than taxes and agricultural products or their processing, and the provision of household services to the population. Is that a lot of these businesses? Well, obviously not. Everything else doesn't spread. And now I'm talking to my colleague Chechtov. He's an intellectual person, he'll understand me. The illusions must be parted and parted at the right time. And I want your government, the government of Azarov, who doesn't accept Deputy Carmazin, well I'll talk from the rostrum all I want to say to him or ask him now because I'm already, you know, tired. Once registered through the reception room, the second entered. Well, the status law doesn't work for Azarov, so I'm going to talk to Azarov here. Is it true, I'll ask Mikol Yanovich Azarov, that you've printed 61 billion dollars, unsecured, unprovoked by law, as I'm told by experts at the National Bank? I want to hear this answer from this rostrum as well as the whole people, because these prices are three times that they've just taken, which they've grown, not just turned out to be. Keep going. To break up with the illusions, I want to give you a hint. Ladies and gentlemen, don't expect the new Tax Code you want to make. And I'll tell you why. You know the Law on Rules. After all, the Supreme Council’s decision to adopt the Tax Code on the basis of the draft was invalidated on the basis of our decree of September 7, 2010. and as a result, the draft Tax Code, which was introduced, has been withdrawn. [[His registration number was 6905]] And since the alternative draft of Tax Code No. 6509-1 of 16.06, submitted by the national deputy Catherinechuk, your humble servant Karmazin and others, has only been heard and no decision has been taken, the Supreme Council should vote on the draft of this Tax Code. And in the event that the project is not adopted, the next time a draft tax code can be introduced by subjects only in February 2011. As a result of Article 94, part 2 of the Rules. Article 94 of the Rules, for there is an acceptable one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u170	No, thank you. Have a seat, please. Half a second if Leapina lets.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u171	All right, all right, or a deviation in the current session. So, dear friends, stand aside from your illusions now, support the Royal Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u172	Please, Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u173	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, I want to continue. If society and the state expect small businesses to create jobs, what does small business expect from the state? Every time we say, "We're going to help a small business," you know, in a small business, "condrats" starts because they immediately suspect that they're going to get worse conditions. The only thing they're asking for, they say: “ Don’t interrupt, my friends! Here you are, in this room, do everything you can not to interfere." What I'm saying is that this uninterrupted policy is the most complicated policy because it needs a job. It's easy to take a password -- it's hard to make decisions that really will keep small businesses from developing. What do we have today? Unfortunately, today we have very bad expectations of small businesses. A small business is like grass, you know, it'll hit the ice, and the grass will fade, the trees will survive, and the grass will fade. Now the small business is like the grass in anticipation of the frost. And that's what they think of as the Tax Code. And for good reason, because the Tax Code, already registered in the Supreme Council, contains the standards of such a simplified tax system that it will simply destroy small businesses. What do they do with such expectations? I'll tell you, you can go to your state statistics, they already have this data: people are filing registration papers for individuals who are entrepreneurs. We're reducing the number of individuals who are entrepreneurs. If you haven't seen it in statistics, it's just because the process of elimination isn't that short. They've already written statements, but it hasn't been shown in the register yet. What does that mean? This means that they will either work in the shadows and never pay any taxes at all, or they will shorten people who will go to the labor market to find a job. Both are bad for the state. Because this leads to two consequences: Tinning and, as a result, criminalization in small businesses. We're coming back. The whole business says we were brought back ten years ago. There is a racket, for the illegal entrepreneur can not only be reached by the police, he can be approached by bandits, and he was ten years ago. And we're bringing this situation back, it's unacceptable. In this case, I consider the proposal for vacations solely as a guarantee from such foolish, unbalanced, systemsless and destructive actions that are unfortunately expected today from the Tax Code, which is now a fact and you do not hide it. And if anyone does.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u174	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u175	If someone here thinks it's a tax revolution, it's not a revolution, it's tax. Tax genocide. He's just going to destroy a small business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u176	Please conclude by the author and committee head Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u177	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Thank you to the distinguished colleagues who supported my initiative, the initiative of our faction, because first of all we must answer the question: What is necessary for economic policies in the country to really meet business expectations? And the answer to that question is indeed systemic, radical reforms, but the key is to build the confidence of the authorities in business and business in power. And I insist that no reform of entrepreneurship will work in our country until an integrated reform of the entire administrative state system is carried out. Because the clerk's office beats up all the good things that we do with you sometimes. And to my colleagues who have been more critical here, I would like to remind you that we have all been able to pass some serious laws with you, but which today, again, I insist on this, are completely ignored and not working. And when we talk about a professional or a politician, a politician or a professional, there must be a professional and consistent politician first. And we, regardless of whether we are in opposition or in power, believe that the role of small business in the country's economy is undervalued today. And methods such as increasing pressure or changing by several percentages of basic taxes will not produce significant results. That's all the economy of yesterday. And the post-crisis world dictates to us the need to adopt the 21st century's economics, not to undertake shocking reforms for people, but first and foremost to undertake a shocking reform for bureaucrats. And I, and my colleagues, are today primarily raising the problems that are most relevant to people, because people need to have reasonable answers: Is the power today to support small businesses, is the power today to protect women? And people get these answers just right. And for me, of course, today was a complete shock when I heard from the authorities that there was no small business in the country. So you just don't see a small business in the first place. That's why you pass such laws and make such proposals in the Tax Code because you think there is no small business in the country. But if that's a mistake, then deny it. Well, you can't make these statements today. And eight taxes are listed there because there are eight taxes for a small business today. And I would like to support this bill today because it does not speak of populism, it speaks of the future, of the economic model that needs to be started in our country, of the role of people and business in the future of our State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u178	Thank you. Question completed. The Committee's conclusion is to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work, although Natalia Jurijovna is the head of the committee. And the conclusion of the Chief Science and Technology Administration is that the bill needs to be finalized. But we're going to define ourselves in an order of action. I'm voting for acceptance as the basis for the project. Bill No. 7037 on the introduction of tax breaks for small businesses. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:57:16]] For-143 Not supported. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 113, “Our Ukraine” – 29, non-fractional-1. There's a proposal for both the committee and the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority to get the subject back on the right of legislative initiative to work. Please support this initiative. [[13:58:01]] For 158. Unfortunately, the offer is not supported. Chechtev, please. The factions? Let's see the factions. “Block of Timoshenko” – 115, “Our Ukraine” – 26, Communists – 17, the rest did not support. Please, Chechtev, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u179	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! This is legal and normal when, according to the laws, there is a wide variety of professional views, and so does Parliament. But I think that in Parliament we are not just parliamentarians, but citizens of a large European country, there are fundamental values that unite us. As if we were professionally looking at different ideological issues. And I have such a constructive proposal. Let us give the floor to Vladimir Yavorivsky, let him make his five decrees, and we will indeed vote in favour of celebrating the anniversary of the five historical figures, that is the pride of Ukraine. And this constructive positive vote will unite the hall, show that we have more in common, we are all Ukrainians, we are all patriots of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, there is such an offer. Since we're running out of time, I can go on for 15 minutes, but. Indeed, if we are going to change the order of things now, because if we go into the questions that are currently standing, we will not consider them in 15 minutes, and those proposals that my colleague Chechtev spoke about can be considered in 15 minutes and we can even go to another chapter on inclusion in the agenda. I mean, if you don't mind that we're going to change the way things are being handled right now, then I'm going to keep going. Please. Please. I understand that today both committees and parliamentary hearings are at 3:00, don't forget. Skinny microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u181	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to propose an alternative, in relation to Mr. Chechtov, an offer. First of all, I'd like to switch places, we'd be happy to support the draft regulations that Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski will now propose. First, let us vote on the agenda before the rulings. Placing in the agenda of the bill, as we agreed. Let's include and then in ten minutes, we'll vote on these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u182	Thank you. There are two suggestions. It'll be decided by the session room. Who is it that now comes to the consideration of matters related to the marking of memorable dates and then moves on to the order of the day? Please vote. [[14:01:21]] For 228 Decision taken. Please. So let's get to the point. The first 6626 is the decision to celebrate the 90th anniversary of the birth of twice the Hero of the Soviet Union of Sultan Ahmet Khan. Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich There is a proposal to consider all these decisions in a simplified procedure. Please support this proposal. [[14:01:59]] For 233 Please, Vladimir Alexanderovich, you have two minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, this is the date that I presented the 90th anniversary of the Hero of the Soviet Union of Sultan Amet, not Ahmet, but Amethan, after I met the biography of this unique absolutely man, the pilot. I'm just going to name a few episodes, not even enough for the national MPs to let people know it was human. This is the man who planted, let's say, one episode, he planted a German plane at our airport. And three hours later, he boarded this unknown plane and took off with him into the sky. This is exactly the same thing when the tank was pierced and the gasoline started leaking into his cabin and he could have been catapulted. But there was another man along with him on the radio, and he did land the plane. He tried out the unique airplanes that had just been, and died in a test of planes. Besides everything else, you can see for yourself that this was a representative of the Crimean Tatar people who were deported from their homeland, a unique man. The only thing Mustafa's asking for is the Crimean Tatars, which I didn't foresee in my decree, and I ask that it be in our transcript is their suggestion to call the airport in Sevastopol the name of this legendary Crimean Tatar. [[B in m in s a l in]] In Simferopol, Simferopol, I apologize. Put it to the vote if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, there's no need to discuss it? None. I then put to the vote the Bill 6626 -- marking the 90th anniversary of the birth of twice the Hero of the Soviet Union of Sultan Amet Khan. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u185	There's no airport in the decree. I said it was me. Let's keep it in the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u186	We're voting on a decision without a supplement. [[14:04:15]] For 294 It's been decided. Volodymyr Alexanderovich, your proposal, I think, is heard, and it's up to the local authorities to decide without our recommendation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u187	It's a deal. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u188	There's a draft decree to mark the 200th anniversary of Nikola Pyrogova's birth: 6627. Please, I take it we're all short-cut, no need to vote. Please, Volodymira Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u189	Well, a unique completely surgical surgeon who's discovered a completely new word in surgery, it's so-called military surgery, he's glorified worldwide, put to the vote. For 200 years, much of his life has gone through in Ukraine and he's for Ukraine, he's the same son of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u190	Is there no objection? Then there's a motion for a vote to take a decision to celebrate the 200th anniversary of Nikola Pyrogov's birth. Registration number 6627. Please be supportive. [[14:05:29]] For 299 A decision has been made. There's a Billocourt Billocourt Billocourt Billocourt's 110th anniversary. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u191	A remarkable woman, no day of school, the Yagotina district, here is the village of Bogdanovka, literally under Kiev, who learned to paint herself and even the bones for painting, made herself from the tip of her ear, cat's ear, and painted amazing paintings and covered them with jars of sour milk, no one knew about it. And until when she was shown several works in Paris, “King Colossus”, there were several other works, Pablo Picasso, and he called himself, not Picasso, but Picasso, when he saw these paintings, he said, “If God had given me such a talent, I would have been an even bigger artist than I really am.” A unique woman, a Ukrainian pearl. Don't yell like that! 110 years since the day she was born, I ask you to vote and support the marking of this genius absolutely human.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u192	Thank you, 110 years since your birthday?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u193	110, 110.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u194	It's on the vote Order 6629 on the 110th anniversary of Catherine Bilocourt. Please be supportive. [[14:07:02]] For 302 I'll take the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u195	I thank you very much, and now that you have voted, I can say that I have written a novel about Catherine Bilockur, called “The Autoportrait of Imagination”. It is translated into many languages. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u196	We're listening to the draft decree on the 170th anniversary of Michael Staricksky's birth. [[Registration number 6630]] Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u197	Well, I'm pretty sure the Old Man's name actually knows almost every Ukrainian in school today. Because if Catherine Bilocourt is somewhere on the periphery, so to speak, the Old Man is our amazing writer, and the playwright, and the director, and the translator. 170 years, I think Ukraine at its national level can mark. This is one of the founders of the Ukrainian theater. I think it's out of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u198	We're voting for Order 6630, marking the 170th anniversary of Michael Starysky's birth. Please be supportive. [[14:08:14]] For 304 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u199	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u200	Question number 6632 follows -- draft decree marking the 440th anniversary of the birth of Hethman Peter Sagaidach. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u201	Well, society, I also think that Peter Sagaidak is even if those who might know Ukrainian history better or worse are familiar with Sagaidak songs. That this is the legendary free-loving man, as it were, who passed through the ranks of this Cossack service and was a hetman. He's not being followed by any other kind of betrayal. I think that's one of the names that we've adopted, where there are Pyrogov today, where there's a representative of the Crimean Tatar people. I think it would be appropriate to celebrate both the Jubilee of this and the military man and the thinker and the head of the Cossack. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u202	Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, who was a relative of one of our presidents, was he not?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u203	It's not proven, Adam Ivanovich, and don't provoke me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u204	Yes. I'm betting, well, on the contrary, maybe there would be more. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u205	No, it was Kalniszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u206	I'm voting on the 440th anniversary of the birth of Hethman Peter Sagaidach. [[6632 Registration Number]] Please vote. [[14:09:54]] For 312 Most of the votes were cast. Decision taken. Yes, dear fellows! We have five minutes. As we agreed, we move on to the agenda. It is proposed to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Organised Crime (Organizational and Legal Basis). [[Registration number 2007]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:10:33]] For -14 Not supported. It is proposed to include in the agenda of the daily session a bill numbering 4783, the draft Law on Recognition of Deported Citizens of Ukraine, which in 1944-1951 were forcibly relocated from the territory of the Polish People's Republic to the territory of the Union of Soviet Socres republics. Please be sure. [[14:11:10]] For-138 The bill is not included. It's happening. Well, it's just an inclusion, Mikhail Vasilovich. You can, you can. Well, say two words, say two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u207	Colleagues, colleagues! So it's just an inclusion. And then you can define yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u208	Give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u209	Look at the book I came out with. These are documents that are also published by our State Archives, and you know who runs our State Archives, and the Polish State Archives on this subject. So scientists, researchers have already solved this problem. Then, see, in Poland, there's a two-cell that's called “restoration or deportation”. And the Polish historians, Messila, the Polish historian says it was such a deportation. And then, look, there's a law in Poland on the same subject, a law on the same subject. They accepted it back in 2005. And in Poland, this is a complete solution, because the Polish state has allocated 400 hectares of land that it sells for the purpose of actually compensating property lost by its citizens. And that's why I would ask you, because it's a scientificly-educated, historically-educated question, because in Poland, there's already a similar law in our neighbours, well, it's completely illogical that we're even discussing this issue in our country. That's not right. I would ask you to support it anyway, and I think Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk joined it, because she is being approached by her electorate. They live in each of our regions. They're all left. And of course Lugansk too. There are only 25,000 left. I'll let you know about the expenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-22-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, Mikhailo Vasilovich, who, in order to return to this question, would you please make up your mind? [[14:14:10]] For 132 We're not back. We're not back. There is a proposal to include in the agenda of the day session bill 4415 the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. [[on the protection of the rights of business entities]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:14:41]] For 111 Not supported. There is a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. [[on landowners]] Almost the same thing, but registration number 4838. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:15:13]] For 106 Not turned on. There is a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session a draft regulation on certain measures to ensure the proper functioning of Ukrainian housing and utility. [[Project registration number 7102]] [[14:15:43]] For-129 The decision is not supported. There is a proposal to include in the agenda a bill number 7145, namely the draft Law on the Definition of Policies for Price-Price Policies for Housing Services and Natural Gas for People's Housing in 2010-2011. Please vote. [[14:16:16]] For 257 The bill is included in the agenda. No, it was Yuri Anatolyovich who knocked me down a little. On this good note, allow the morning meeting of the Supreme Council to be closed. And once again, honourable colleagues, today at 15 hours here in the Supreme Council in the session hall, there will be parliamentary hearings on the subject: “Economic reforms. The reality and expectation of the Ukrainian business.” Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock.
