ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:05]] They registered in the 418 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we continue our fruitful work. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity is being announced for consideration. [[on the improvement of electricity legislation in the division of responsibilities of entities]] [[Registration number 4131]] The rapporteur is Romanyuk Mikopovich, deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! At its meeting on 20 October 2010, the Committee considered amendments to the second reading of the draft amendment to the Electricity Act. [[on the improvement of electricity legislation in part of the establishment and delimitation of responsibilities of objects introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine]] The draft law proposes to amend and supplement Ukraine's Electricity Act. The need for changes and additions is due to the fact that electricity breaks are available to consumers for a number of reasons: electricity, electricity, transmission, and supply, due to the poor technical condition of the plants. The bill lays down limits on the responsibility of electricity and consumer entities for the unbreakable and quality supply of electricity to consumers. The targets are intended to be achieved through the legislative distribution of responsibilities in relations that arise in the production, transmission, supply and consumption of electricity. The draft law lays down the conditions for responsibilities of electricity and electricity users in the event of interruptions in the supply of electricity or the supply of power of improper quality. The text adopted in the first reading received nine suggestions from the National Deputies and from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, three of which were rejected and one included in part. Regarding amendments made by the people’s deputies, I will note that some have been introduced to clarify the wording of the bill and have editorial characteristics. One of them is proposed to determine the insufficient responsibility for developing a method of costing in case of interruption of electricity supply or supply of power of improper quality. The proposals are in line with the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. In view of the above, the National Deputies are invited to agree with the text of a bill amending the Ukrainian Electricity Act, which is presented by the Committee in its conclusions and adopted in a second reading and as a whole. [[on improving electricity legislation in the area of the establishment and delimitation of responsibilities of entities]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u3	Dear National Deputies! Amendment 1 is not counted. Are they insisting on her? No, it's not. Let's move on. 4th Amendment. Booth insists on her? No, it's not. All other amendments are included. And 8th, Booth. Is he insisting? No, it's not. The committee proposes to adopt the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, the Chief Legal Administration does not have any comments on the bill, so, fellow Members, I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on the improvement of electricity legislation in the division of responsibilities of entities]] [[Registration number 4231]] Please vote. [[16:05:23]] For-43 The decision is not taken. To the others again? Please put to the vote a second reading proposal. [[16:05:50]] For 273 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we must now consider a very important issue, a very important question, namely: the proposal of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Tax Code, i.e. to two laws: 7101-1, 7101-2. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Ukrainian President's Administration, Akimova Irina Mikhailovna. Correspondent is the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. Please, Irina Mikhailovna. The materials are all given to you, dear colleagues. Surrendered, committed, respected colleagues. Veto is not included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u4	Honorable Speaker of Parliament, Honourable Fellow MPs, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! The president of Ukraine believes that we need the Tax Code as soon as possible. Without it, the country cannot continue to live and develop normally. The outdated tax administration can no longer provide development and maintain current economic and social programs. But the rate of acceptance of this important document should not go to the detriment of its quality. The President’s veto, imposed on the Tax Code, fully confirmed the integrity of this rule. Let me remind you that at virtually every reform committee meeting, starting with the approval of the reform agenda, the President stressed that he would not allow decisions that violated the constitutional rights of citizens or hindered the conduct of honest entrepreneurial activities. He consistently held this position at numerous meetings, but unfortunately, the drafters of the bill and the national deputies were unable to correct the mistakes made in time. In this case, the president acted as a principal official. He proved that power is governed not by political purpose but by the national interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, the interests of citizens, entrepreneurs, and all taxpayers. The President of Ukraine took advantage of the veto as a guarantor of citizens' rights and freedoms. The Code now contains substantial risks that can be reversed by the narrowing of citizens' rights and the violation of fundamental guarantees of the rights and freedoms defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. What does that mean? In particular, the Code ignores the constitutional principle of the integrity of the person, because if a taxpayer charges any decision by the tax authority, the burden of proving such a decision wrong rests on the payer. It turns out that the tax authority is always right in relation to the taxpayer. Such an approach is unacceptable in a democratic society and requires a fundamental change. Secondly, guarantees of the protection of the person's rights and freedoms are being violated. For example, according to the tax code, the taxpayer is obliged to pay the full amount of the tax immediately even if the court has not yet considered his request to determine the tax ruling as invalid. The code allows checks to be carried out without any written orders from the supervisor. Thus, the payer cannot even complain about the decision to carry out the check. Thirdly, the Code violates constitutional guarantees of property rights, the right to engage in entrepreneurial activities. The regulation of administrative detention of property for up to 96 hours provides a basis for abuse and unwarranted stretching during the time of arrest of property without a court decision. So you can block entrepreneurship for a long time. It's unacceptable. Four. The Code has changed the legal regime for simplified taxation, accounting, and reporting of small businesses. There is a need to reform relations in this area. But the Code does not solve the problem, it creates conditions for new problems, narrowing down the rights of individuals who choose a simplified system of taxation and do not provide guarantees for the protection of the rights of individuals who pay a single tax during a transitional period. Fifth. The Code limits the rights of local self - government by granting the right to establish local taxes and congregations in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Until the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The situation may then arise when the same local tax or congregation in Crimea is established by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and by the appropriate local government body, which is different in size. Both decisions will be mandatory. This violates the constitutional right of the territorial community to resolve matters of local importance on its own. Six. The Code unjustifiably reinforces administrative pressure on taxpayers because it does not clearly define the procedure for tax control. This may lead to abuse by the controlling authorities and a violation of the rights of taxpayers. For example, the Code provides for the duty of a taxpayer to provide an explanation for tax matters while the Constitution guarantees the right of a person to refuse to provide such explanations on any issue. A specific issue is tax clarification of tax and other legislation, the order of which is established under the Code by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not by law. Tax rulings should be waived and taxes should be governed solely by laws. Seven. The Code offers imbalances in the determination of the rights and obligations of taxpayers and control authorities. The Code provides for a substantial expansion of the powers of the supervisory authorities and an increase in the obligations of taxpayers. In doing so, the code does not define a clear mechanism for the responsibility of the officials of the supervisory authorities for failing to perform their duties. The officials of the controlling authorities are responsible under the law, yet there is not yet such a law. Rather, the Code systematically sets out the position of the taxpayer’s own responsibility. Such an imbalance in legal regulation creates conditions for many abuses of the right of control authorities and gives entrepreneurs reasonable fears of possible pressure from those authorities. By applying the veto to the Tax Code, the President sent a package of suggestions to Parliament that essentially solve the problem of government and business relations. These proposals, first of all, take into account the constitutional right of a citizen to defend his position in relations with tax authorities and in court. In particular, the code excludes those positions that severely restricted the rights of entrepreneurs from the role of tax administration. The tax inspector should know and exercise his rights and duties, be responsible for the violation as well as the taxpayer. The President's proposals return to the presumption that taxpayers are innocent. Norms that extend tax rights without judicial decisions are excluded. Tax payers are given the opportunity to effectively challenge decisions regarding the amount of taxation and the decisions to be made in court. Grounds for checks are shortened and their deadlines are set, and restrictions on local self - government rights are excluded. It is suggested that the Institute of Tax Explanation should be abandoned and that tax relations should be governed solely by laws. There is no discrimination against believers in regard to tax deductions. The President of Ukraine also proposes to maintain an effective simplified system of small business entities’ accounting and reporting. Further improvement of the tax system will require the development and adoption of separate laws. The president is set up for further constructive cooperation with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the government, with an enterprise to improve legislation to stimulate small business development. The President has already ordered the government to develop and submit bills for the development of small businesses and the reform of tax and customs systems within a period of two months. The principle is laid down – only a balance between the rights of the taxpayer and the control bodies can create civilized conditions for business development. I ask the Supreme Council to support the President's proposal. The President is confident that a balanced Tax Code is our common chance to move forward with reforms. And I'm convinced that we have enough wisdom and will to find balanced solutions both in the new tax system and in the implementation of social reforms, and in the implementation of deep government reform and in other ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u5	Thank you, you too. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a question to the first Deputy Head of Administration. Please sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Alexander Pecklusenko, please, your question, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u6	Irina Mikhailovna! I want to thank you not only for your strong statement, but most importantly for your participation in the work on the Tax Code. Thanks to you personally, many irritants have been removed from it. You and I understand very well that small business is a sector of the economy to which the State owes. Today, thanks to small business, we have the most beautiful middle class, and this is largely due to a simplified system. So we need to keep everything better and multiply in this simplified system. I'm asking you to answer again what happened before the draft Small Business Tax Code? What did the project involve? What are the President's proposals that we must vote on?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u7	Thank you for asking, Alexander Nikolayevich! Small business is crucial to the development of any economic system, particularly in Ukraine. The proposals contained in the Small Business Tax Code have dramatically increased the rights of the Tax Inspectorate to intervene in business activities. This concerns many issues, I have already referred to the principle of presumption of innocence, which has been violated in the Tax Code. And a small entrepreneur would have to prove that he didn't do it, in principle, "Prove yourself that you're not a camel." Second moment. The Tax Administration has been granted virtually unlimited rights to come to actual verifications and verify everything. Moreover, since the checks were to be carried out and could be carried out orally by the head of the tax inspection, the small enterprise could not apply to the court without having a written penalty and would not agree to the inspection decision. These rules have now been substantially resolved. In addition, you know what has led to huge debates.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u8	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u9	Caused huge public debates to narrow down activities that fall under a simplified tax system and the possibility of changing the thresholds for simplifications and for people who are entitled to work with a cashier. That is why the President proposed the removal of the XIV section, which contained provisions on a simplified tax system and mandated the Government, together with entrepreneurs, to develop harmonized civilised rules, where there would be no tax gaps on the one hand, and on the other hand small businesses could operate in a civilized and efficient manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u10	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u11	Dear reporter, it is very good that the President has listened to the suggestions that have been made. In fact, today's small business, a small business, I mean, first of all, that does some services, like workshops that aren't in the country, or at the back of their clothes, or after repairing TVs, they have to be supported. But there are other people who refer to small businesses, they are realizers. These are the millions of people who are standing on markets that don't have kiosks, the kiosks of those who are sitting in the office, watching on TV how these people are freezing on the Midan, and they're pulling whiskers, and they're throwing people out. I wanted to ask you, for these people, the entrepreneur pays as much as 200 dollars a tax and 100 dollars a pension fund. I've calculated that in 30 years these implementers will store up to 36,000 in 30 years at the Pension Fund and will receive a pension of 200 to 300 dollars. So it turns out that budget workers are going to pay for it. How is this addressed in the new codex? How much are entrepreneurs going to pay for these people, for real estate people?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u12	Dear colleagues! You know that pension payments were settled in a bill that was voted on at the summer session of Parliament. That is why all the contentious issues related to the simplified tax system and other contentious issues were raised once again by the President outside the Tax Code because they require a clear development of concerted action and the possibility of seeking and finding a reasonable compromise. Once again, pension payments are outside the Tax Code and are regulated by a separate law, and this law has been in force almost since the summer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u13	Ruslan Knazevitch, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u14	Please give Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u15	Alexander Bondar microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u16	Alexander Bondar is a faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Irina Mikhailovna! I have two short questions for you, maybe it's not your level, but you represent the President of Ukraine. First. What was the point of leading to today's situation around the Tax Code in order to make such a split * note — after he was accepted in the first reading, in the second reading. Then all the protests. Isn't that the President's Administration? Didn't they see the President at the beginning? And the second question. Who's going to be responsible for the President's diagnosis in his veto? Look, a violation of the constitutional principle, a violation of constitutional rights, a violation of all guarantees, anything in this Tax Code has been violated. So who's to blame for what happened? You're saying it's the national MPs who did it. I think it was given by the only, strong authority representing the President, the government and most.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u17	Dear colleague! Thank you for the good question. I remind you of the history of the passage of the Tax Code, I remind you of the opinion expressed by the President during the summer when this document was submitted to Parliament. I recall that in the summer, as soon as the document had been before Parliament, the President had objected to the final adoption of the document. And most of the comments that were made during the summer were a violation of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens and entrepreneurs, in particular of the possibility of interfering with business without a court decision, a violation of the presumption of innocence. All these comments were in the President's summer statements. I have a legitimate question. Since then, the document has been in Parliament for a long time, and there has been a large number of discussions with parliamentarians. The question is: Why did these discussions not produce the reasonable result that the President had hoped for? And I think the answer to that question lies largely, to a large extent, in these walls.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u18	I, my dear colleagues, ask for Kiselov Vasily Alexiyovich. And I'm going to say that the responsibility lies with all of us and not just those walls.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u19	Dear Irina Mihaylovna, in the article vote for the Tax Code, a rule was adopted that allowed for a “second hand” in weight. I understand that this is a five-metre-long “hole” that will allow the import into Ukraine of millions of feet of cloth, thousands or hundreds of thousands of objects of fur under the form of “second-hand”. And I ask that if this rule is not taken into account now in the amendments, I ask that they propose to introduce in the Cabinet of Ministers rules amending the Customs Code that would close this “hole” at the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u20	Thank you for asking or for your recommendation. My dear colleague, I recall that the President's proposal to remove from the Tax Code chapter 1 of section XIV, which regulates, including the activities covered by the simplified tax system. The issue that you have raised is really important because we need to work together in society with entrepreneurs to resolve one important issue. We want to live in a civilized country. A civilized country means normal, quality conditions for business development, but at the same time high tax discipline. This issue needs to be addressed jointly. That is why the President instructed the Government, together with entrepreneurs, to propose a solution to the issue, to encourage small business development without leaving tax gaps. And I hope that this issue will be effectively resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u21	Olesy Dony, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u22	Dear Mrs. Irina, you have rightly pointed out that speed in adopting the Tax Code should not damage quality. Instead, Kabin sold a document with a vast majority in the Supreme Council that contributed to the further oligarchy of Ukraine’s economy and to the tax pressure on small businesses, which certainly caused indignation and public organizations and small businesses. And under this pressure, you are now forced to make changes. I believe you have quality, knowing your professional level. But it's fast again. And where are the guarantees that once again, when the MPs received this document an hour earlier, there will not be another disregard for all the necessary nuances? Maybe it's better to listen to the protesters, to the public organizations that say that the need for a full promise, the rejection of this Tax Code, the adoption of the old budget, and then carefully, thoroughly prepare the new Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u23	Dear colleague, I share your concern about the urgency of the decision. That is why the President did not make a hasty decision and vetoed the code. I would like to point out that the Code is fully respected, and there cannot be a partial veto. The code is completely vindicated for some of the reasons I just named. Now, with regard to such a positive approach to problem-solving. I would not like to speak now and use various arguments to stop this process in Ukraine when the process of reform has just begun with major problems. You, a respected colleague to both the government and the Administration, are now facing the issue of the 2011 budget. And if we want to stimulate our production, if we want to get closer to European standards, we need to be aware that the budget should be adopted on a new tax basis. Because it's this tax base that's very positive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u24	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u25	and from the point of view of reducing tax rates and allowing for the promotion of technological renewal, I mean accelerated depreciation rates. That's why let's say "wait," "slow down" to see the ultimate goal. We need a tax code. He needs to be taken. The rules that have not been settled but we must move forward must be further elaborated in certain other laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u26	Thank you. Time's up. Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik That's up to two laws. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u27	It may be because they are linked to each other. Please. Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u28	The Honourable Chairman of the National People’s Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 18, 2010, was adopted as a whole by the Tax Code of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code. On December 2, this year, the veto and the reasoned proposals were applied to these acts in accordance with article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution by the President of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy held an appropriate meeting today to consider proposals made by the President of Ukraine. They have 12 general orientations aimed at improving the content of the Tax Code: it is to uphold the constitutional principle of presumption of non-criminality, to guarantee the protection of persons with their rights and freedoms, to guarantee the right to property, to exercise entrepreneurial activities, to create the right conditions for small businesses, to respect the rights of local self-government, to ensure that independent professional activities are carried out. Identifying the principles of personalization of responsibility, methodological provision of new forms of taxation and reporting of taxpayers, establishing a clear order for tax control and increasing administrative pressure, avoiding imbalances in the determination of the rights and obligations of taxpayers and control bodies. The removal of violations of the rights of natural persons. So 12 blocks that clearly determine what needs to be corrected in the Tax Code. With regard to basic positions that have the most controversial and most plausible issues, this is a matter of a simplified tax system. This is chapter 14 of the Tax Code. The president suggested that chapter 14 of the Tax Code should be deleted. And to establish that from 1 January 2011 until the amendment to chapter 14 of the Tax Code, a small business entity is subject to Presidential Decree No. 727 of 3 July 1998 on a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities. At the same time, it is said that a new bill on a simplified system is to be developed within two months. To which the experts of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Association of Entrepreneurs, Industrialists, and others will be involved. So the most controversial section on small business is now proposed to be removed from the Tax Code. The second block of questions is the issue of tax administration. The President proposes to organize the functions of the State Tax Administration and to strengthen the rights of tax payers in the part of the checks, in the part of the administrative arrest, where the maximum time limit for such arrest is 96 hours. The court used to have the opportunity to continue this term, now it's a 96-hour deadline, and only after the court's decision. It is also suggested that the tax regime be changed. Now the tax pay may be in the amount that is 2-3 times the amount of the debt itself. The proposals clearly state that the amount of the tax may not exceed the amount of the tax debt. The prosecution procedure is improving. If tax obligations are now considered to be agreed upon after the appeal is concluded, the President’s proposals are that they can only be agreed upon after the final decision. And the obligation to prove that the decision is correct in most of the prosecution procedures rests on the tax authorities. Today, these decisions are reliable.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u29	Vitali Juryovich, remarks by the President of Ukraine and motivation, spoke to the first deputy head of the Administration. So I'd like to ask you to decide a committee. And to repeat what's in the veto, I think everyone's already read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u30	I finished from the point of view that I was the most discreet. The Committee decided to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and to recommend to the Supreme Council that it accept the proposals submitted by the President of Ukraine for amendments to the Tax Code and amend certain legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Tax Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the chairman of the committee. May I see the names of the national MPs? Ostap Semerak, “BUT – Fatherland” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u32	Please pass the word to the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u33	Natalia Royal. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u34	Dear colleagues! We have now seen, indeed, an example of when people can speak clearly, when people can unite and resist the actions of power, resist corruption and the indivisible proportion of officials. And to my colleague, I would like to ask the Chairman of the Committee a question. How do you assess the amendments proposed by the President? They're changing the philosophy of the tax system? Are they indeed making radical changes in the administration of the tax in our country, in the allocation of the budget and in the fight against corruption? I don't think so. And I believe that this work is still global, and it is ahead. And the fact that people have now been able to assert their minimum rights is just a first step towards dialogue. And if you don't follow, you won't hear people, and you won't be directing the work today against the will that the power does, it's still ahead. And that's just the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u35	Thank you for asking. You understand that every legislative act, it consists of the adoption in the first reading of the authors, in this case the authors of the Cabinet of Ministers, of the Ukrainian Parliament. We worked together on this document. And the last step is the President's Administration and the President's proposals. This is the third stage of the Tax Code. I think he's perfecting the document himself. And in part, the very fiscal part, it greatly facilitates business conditions and reduces tax opportunities for the different issues that we've talked about. As for the following changes, I think we'll go back to the Tax Code. At least once a year, we have to make these changes in terms of reductions, changes in rates, rents, excises, and we have to look at what issues need to be corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u36	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of BUT - Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u37	Dear Mr. Homutinick! Dear voters! You know, my soul is confused. I feel like something's happened today. President Yanukovic, I think, has left his team. Listen to the judgment he gives you. Read: A violation of the constitutional principle of presumption of innocence. Violations of constitutional guarantees to protect the person of his rights and freedoms Violations of constitutional guarantees and property rights, the right to engage in entrepreneurial activities. Restraints for small business. Guys, this is your verdict. That's why I'm suggesting, why are you taking the time? In the short run, no one reads anything. And Majdan will answer and appreciate your corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u38	My friend, these are general phrases, but as for the substance of the bill, it's a bill. The President's proposals are made, they're clear, they're clear and they're reasonable.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u39	Sokolov, Faction BUT - Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u40	Where's Sokolov? Please, Upper Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u41	Please pass the word to Sas Sergio Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u42	Sergei Sas, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are literally a few more. A week or a few days ago, we were told by some MP that it was a brilliant document, that it was the Second Constitution of Economic Finance. [[conditionally name his name "Chichikov" so as not to give the right to a replica]] Conclusion one. The government's gone rogue, and it won't admit it today. [[Applause]] As far as the question is concerned. Dear Head of the Committee, the Rules state that it is necessary to have a comparative table. Where is she? The rule states that the issue can be considered only three days after the material has been distributed. Why are you breaking the Rules again? Stop all this stuff because it's going to work out last time. And I agree that the question, your path, is to Maidan. You don't have a choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u44	Thank you. I think the regulatory committee will evaluate the procedure that's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u45	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I understand, but time's up. Well, I'm sorry. Yuri Anatolyevich. Too bad. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. What discussion? What discussion? Dear people's deputies, please! There is no discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down! After a report and a co-report, the Supreme Council of Ukraine moves to a vote on the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, the Supreme Council may decide to consider any amendment or to make a decision of another, in a different order determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is what 134 articles say. That's why I'm putting the vote on the table. Attention, please. – that we consider by voting immediately taking all the President's amendments into account in the Ukrainian Tax Code. Please vote for this amendment. Please vote. Calm down! Calm down! [[16:41:57]] For 258. Decision taken. I am now voting on the proposal to adopt the Ukrainian Tax Code in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[16:42:27]] For 268. Decision taken. But, dear colleagues, we have adopted a new law, the Tax Code of Ukraine. We now need to consider another law that deals with amending laws in connection with the adoption of the Tax Code. For the faction, please. By faction, please: Region Party – 176, “BUT – Fatherland” – 7, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 13, Communists – 26, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 26. I now announce before the review of the Law on Change.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u46	From the motive -- in the end, let's see, it'll be motivated. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please, one minute from the factions. Please, one minute from the factions. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u47	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, the faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" believes that we have now again allowed violations of the law "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". We have not been distributed, there are no conclusions of the General Legal Authority at all today, there is no table that has been discussed. And finally, there is absolutely no accounting for the Constitutional Court's decision of today's number. Today, the unconstitutional provisions of the State Budget Act of Ukraine have been declared unconstitutional. And we're coming at the same rake again. We have not been able to ask questions for specific amendments and to exercise the right of legislative initiative to the people’s deputies. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, as a result, I point out that even good amendments, which are essentially half written out of my amendments, can't say that this is the perfect document. Because this document is imperfect, it cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u48	Now everyone understood who the amendment was. From the future, who will act? Kirilenko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, the faction voted. The faction voted against the adoption of the document. I'm going to name just one motive that doesn't sound right in the room, but I need it to sound right now. Dear friends, thus automatically, voted with one hand to amend the Rules and the Rules became higher than the Constitution, voted on the electoral legislation that even the President has now condemned, voted on the judicial reform that the Venice Commission has now broken, voted on the Tax Code, not taking into account any amendments to the opposition. Now read the president's revisions, and now look at our 860 revisions from B.U.T.: Colleagues, this is how the budget and other so-called “reforming documents” will be automatically voted out, which will then be re-entered and voted into the Hall in disgrace. To what extent will the Supreme Council be in automatic mode? No discussion, no discussion, no sharing of thoughts. How long are we going to be doing this? It's not work, it's "too bad" for Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u50	It turns out that Yuri Anatoliyovich is not the only author of the amendments. Yes, please, someone from the block. From the People's Party? None. Mikhail Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u51	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! The authorities have shown once again that they can hear and listen to the people, and they are ready to consider in a constructive dialogue proposals that benefit both the State and the people as a whole. We need to pay tribute to a small business, because in recent days, a compromise site has been found. And the area for compromise was that small business had begun to address its problems in the context of the interests of the country as a whole. That is why we voted today absolutely within the framework of the Rules, since the President has committed himself to the whole law, has made proposals constructively that are acceptable to the absolute majority of representatives of small business and entrepreneurship. We voted. And please also vote on those shifts before the law when we have also broken down the law in the light of the President and passed the law on to the President so that the law can be signed as quickly as possible and we have begun to consider the second vital document, the draft budget for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u52	Thank you. Other factions don't insist? We turn to the re-examination of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts in connection with the adoption of the Tax Code with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7101-2]] He will report to President Akimov's first deputy head, Irina Mikhailovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u53	Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished citizens! The President of Ukraine considered the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 18th of this year of the Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine" in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code and the decision on the application of the veto to it, since a number of its provisions conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and tighten the rights of citizens and are not economically justified. Yes, the President of Ukraine disagrees with the fact that taxpayers may be deprived of their right to judicial protection because the law actually deprives taxpayers of the right to sue the court for a tax charge against their property and their bills. [[B in m in s a l in]] It was impossible for the President to agree that, for any objective reason, the tax administration's tax administration rights would be greatly expanded. The law provided for such a mechanism of administrative detention of property when even a conscientious taxpayer could be unjustifiably deprived of the opportunity to dispose of his property. In this case, it was sufficient for the tax authority to simply submit to the office of the ordinary court and ask the court to extend the term of arrest of the taxpayer’s property and expenses. In this situation, the arrest automatically continued throughout the trial, and the taxpayer had only the opportunity to observe how the court actually became a penal tool in the hands of the taxpayers. The President of Ukraine strongly disagreed with this approach and proposed a mechanism that would balance the interests of both the taxpayer and ensure that the tax authorities perform their duties. In particular, for tax arrests, the tax authority is given 24 hours, during which he is obliged to appeal to the court for the purpose of examining the court’s validity of the decision. The entire procedure concerning property under arrest and the determination of further actions by the tax authority may not exceed 96 hours. New approaches to establishing more stringent criteria for placing enterprises in a small category and reducing their gross income and the number of enterprises working for them are also unfavourable. The introduction of these criteria may have led to the loss of small business status by a large number of operators. There is no economic basis for this money, they do not meet European standards, so the President of Ukraine proposes to leave the existing criteria for granting the status of small enterprises. Another sensitive issue that cannot be overlooked is the amendment to the Budget Code, which removes 50 percent of income tax revenue from individuals to the budget of Kiev. This approach is unfair with regard to the Chinese, it does not meet the principle of unity of the budget system in Ukraine, and the President cannot allow the capital budget to be cut, including due to lack of funding for development programmes. Hence, the President insists that the income of individuals should be included in Kiev’s full budget. In addition, the President of Ukraine proposes to delete several other articles of the law that contain legal disagreements with existing legislation or are not subject to regulation of the Tax Code. I ask you to support the President's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u54	Please sign up to the reporter for a question. Please put your name on the board. Vladimir Filenko, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u55	I ask you to pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u56	Natalia Royal, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u57	Dear colleagues! Dear Irina Mikhailovna! Indeed, the amendments proposed are necessary. And the fact that you have decided to legitimize the simplified system is also necessary today. But you and I really do realize that this is not enough and that it is not today a tax system that could lead the economy out of the crisis. It is not a philosophy that today would give additional income to the budget and encourage the development of small and medium-sized businesses, make it possible to become a competitive country and enable our business to become independent. Today, public rackets, redistribution of financial flows, and redistribution of private property are continuing throughout the country. These are unacceptable moments for an independent country, for a country that wants to be competitive in the world arena. And I think it's this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u58	Microphone, please complete the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u59	And my next minute, you can use it. And this document would have to be processed really through dialogue, not to bring the country to the majors. We therefore insist that the pseudo-reformators who have allowed such an economic boom in the country today should be dismissed, those reformers who have been at the heart of the drafting of the Code. Where's Mr. Tigypto? Why isn't he in the hall? Why did he hide behind the backs of Parliament and not be held responsible today for the lawlessness proposed in the Tax Code? Where are those today who stand for the protection of the rights of entrepreneurs in the country? Why have people been thrown into chaos, thrown into the streets, and now they have to restore business and live in uncertainty again? Because we don't know which document will be finalized within the next few months. We expect you to have a clear understanding of tax reform and the main administrative reform of the Ukrainian tax system. Until the supervisory authorities are replaced, until there is dialogue between power and business, there will be no development of Ukraine in our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u60	Dear colleague, thank you for the declaration, as it was rather a declaration than a question. I agree with you that the philosophy enshrined in the Tax Code and the documents accompanying the Tax Code should be consistent with the philosophy of civilized business. That is why the President of Ukraine, when vetoing both the Tax Code and the Law, was guided by the principle of philosophy: taxes should be paid by everyone but should be equal rights, and by the Tax Administration - both the taxpayer and the small business - both the big business and any Ukrainian citizen. With his amendments, he restores, in my view, the philosophy of civilized business. And I think that your committee should participate as much as possible in the drafting of those bills that will promote development, stimulate small entrepreneurship and help reform the tax service itself as the basis for this very civilized philosophy of business.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u61	Thank you. And regarding Deputy Prime Minister Sergey Tihypco, tomorrow's "hour of questions to the government," and will answer questions from the Ukrainian National Deputy Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, Ruslan Knyazevich is handing over the right to a question to Anatolia Grycenk, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u62	Dear reporter! I have a question about chapter IX of the bill. If a proposal is now made to vote with the Czech as well as with the previous bill, there is nothing to vote on, because there is no drafting of the item that the President wants to see. He has formulated a problem that since January 1st could have several laws and there would be a conflict -- just like all the blanking norms. How do you anticipate voting for this 9th paragraph, and does it make any sense at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u63	Thank you for taking a close look at the president's remarks. I recall that the right to vote is here in this room. I think his proposal helps improve the quality of the document itself and the quality of the business climate. The right to vote, I repeat, is in your hands!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u64	Andrey Pavlovsky Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u65	Dear reporter! We see that the President's proposals to the veto for the Tax Code do not change the main philosophy of this law -- the substance. These documents are prepared to satisfy the interests of the great capital. Once again, no tax evasion schemes are closed through offshore zones, royalty, and we will see billions of dollars hiding in offshore tax zones. We know that there were other requirements of entrepreneurs, they demanded that the Tax Code be rejected in general as a law and from the following year quietly, from 2011, as required by the Budget Code, without having to consider on a new philosophical basis this Tax Code, and as required by the Budget Code to introduce it from January 1, 2012. What's all the fuss again? Once again, we're going to do the paperwork again, and so on and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u66	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's be clear about what we want. If you are interested in the issue of royalty, read the President's amendments carefully and the text of the Tax Code itself. This is the “hole” through which sufficient financial resources have escaped, and changes in the Tax Code close at least to a large extent. Since royalty is in off-shore areas, it is not cost-effective. The second question is again related to the word “philosophy”. Colleagues, we can be philosophical enough for long enough because the MPs in this room are certainly very intellectually developed, smart people. But let us also consider that Ukrainian citizens expect not only philosophy from us but concrete steps to improve their business activities, their lives, their social standards. This depends largely on the adoption of such important laws as are currently under consideration. That's why I think the principle should be, from philosophy to action.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, the name of the Podgorny was technically taken from there, and he has the right to ask questions. Please. And then Davidenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u68	The distinguished rapporteur, you have used a very good term such as “the philosophy of civilized business”. So here's my question: do you think it's possible for civilized philosophy in a society where there's no philosophy of civilized lawmaking, but there's a philosophy of "twilights", a philosophy of abusers? Because the way we've been passing all the laws lately, it's got to be through the knee. You don't have to read them, nobody gives them up. That is why, I think, the President must first, it is said, build his faction and say, “Work civilizedly in Parliament, not in banditry”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u69	My dear colleague, I understand that many colleagues will now wish instead of considering a specific document that is very important for business, for the next fiscal year, to use this high rostrum for a variety of political issues, attacks that are not relevant to the process. And I would call upon you, my distinguished colleagues, to pay full attention to the President's amendments and to adopt this law, which is the second integral part of the Tax Code, in order to enable the country to live next year: first, on a new tax base, using all the advantages that the Tax Code imposes and, on the other hand, that the rules of civilized business, the relationship between the tax administration and taxpayers be placed within the civilized European framework. To that end, we must now discuss a specific document.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u70	People's Deputy Davidenko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u71	Davidenko, Ukrainian People’s Party I have three questions for you. The first question is, since very little time has been spent on this bill and on the veto on the Tax Code, I would like to hear from you: is this proposal changing legislation in the agricultural sector, fixed taxes, VAT benefits and so on? In addition, have you calculated how much impact the following year will have on the income portion of the budget, in view of the adoption of these documents with the President’s proposals? And the third question is, how do you count, taxpayers and controlling authorities, and generally, government authorities will be able to reshape by January 1st under the new rules of the game?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u72	Thank you for asking. If you have paid particular attention to the Tax Code, you have seen that part of the rules, especially those relating to verifications, are postponed for the transformation period. Why is this being done? This is precisely to ensure that both parties: both business on the one hand and tax authorities are prepared for appropriate tax changes. Item 2. During its consideration of the comments to the Tax Code, the President had taken seriously the question that all necessary methodological documents, i.e. by-laws governing the procedures relating to new tax legislation, should be drafted, submitted and approved within the first quarter. Why? In order to enable both taxpayers and tax authorities to become accustomed to the new rules of the game in a civilised manner during the transition period of 2011. I think those amendments have been made to these norms.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u73	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u74	and in the Tax Code, and this law will help, civilize and adjust, clarifying all possible contradictions and eliminating them, to the new rules of tax law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u75	Thank you. Time's up. From the committee head of the Vitaly Hometicnik Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! At its meeting today, the committee considered a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code. The entire document is distributed. It contains the text on page 9. And all the proposals are designed to improve the accepted version of the Tax Code. Therefore, in order not to duplicate the report that has already been given by the First Deputy Chief of the President's Administration, I am only the conclusion of the committee. The committee recommended acceptance of Presidential proposals for amendments to certain legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a question to the chairman of the committee. Names please show. Natalia Královska, faction "BUT is the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u78	Dear Vitaly Juryevich, I'd like to address you again. Regrettably, the Code has provided for a sufficiently edious and serious rule that is a barrier to development. This relates to the relationship between single-payers and legal entities. Provision of single payers remains. Because they will not be able to develop effectively and build their perspective. This requires differentiation of pension payments. Because a number of singles are now retired. People who have spent their entire lives in the country have retired and are now being forced to pay extra for the pension fund. A social contribution should be finalized, which was accepted and entered in January. Because it is no longer in line with the approach of existing tax legislation. Further verifications with powers should be removed. Therefore, a great request to your committee to convince the majority today of the need to make changes. Because this code is imperfect.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u79	Thank you for asking. Today you were on the committee, and I thought that after we removed chapter 14 of chapter I of the simplified system, we would leave more of that ground-based field for discussion. But it certainly is. And we'll work together. But I think it's worth noting what the positives are in the code. When it comes to tax cuts, automatic tax compensation for added value, tax administration functions, and many other things. Let's start changing the rhetoric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u80	Alexander Cronvolenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u81	Dear Mr. Homutinik! Look, don't you think that all the comments that we're considering right now could be accepted in the second reading, taking into account the amendments made by the deputies? Because these amendments by the President coincide with amendments by the deputies, and let's say there's nothing new. And in general, as you expect after this criticism of the President, because it's a criticism, including your committee's criticism, because you've missed out on how to continue working on legislation, and how that's all. And the second question. We're in a hurry now, and so am I. Akimov has heard that the budget should be accepted. But we have made a decision with you, by adopting the Budget Code, that this law that we are now adopting can only be taken into account in 2012 because it can be taken into account when we work on the budget what.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u82	Thank you for asking. You and I have spent 90 percent of our time criticizing chapter XIV, the first chapter of this simplified system. And one of the suggestions of the committee was to remove this most controversial chapter and focus on the Tax Code: on corporate income tax, on personal income tax, VAT, administrative issues and many other things that needed to be discussed, and now on which to work. And that was a joint decision. Now that we've removed this discussion block, we're going to be working on it separately. And in fact, we left that set of laws, tax laws that were to be passed for another 15 years. So I think it's a decision that's so compromising and that's what corresponds to today's reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u83	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u84	Please pass the word "Peklushenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u85	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u86	Yuri Vitalevich, thank you for your information. The competition is now announced in the country, “Hello, we are looking for winners” and the winners have already come. Already in the towers of the Supreme Council, they say they were scared, they forced them. I can clearly say that our President cannot be intimidated. Our president has been discussing all these days while you politicians have been thinking about making money on it. Our president met with business, they convinced him. He was convinced that he wasn't mad, that he was convinced of a common sense. This proves once more that the President is our people's president. That's the first one. Second. Question. How do you see the format of future cooperation with business in writing the following part of the Tax Code?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u87	Thank you for asking. The committee established a public college, comprising 40 persons authorized by one or more associations of profile. So we worked with these people and we'll continue to work to take into account the position of small, medium-sized businesses and industry as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u88	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm going to put a motion on the vote to vote, and I'm asking you to let us vote right now for all the president's amendments and proposals to this law. And then, if there's a positive decision, we'll come to a decision. Please vote for the first sentence. [[17:11:39]] For 268. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Tax Code in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[17:12:15]] For 272 The law was passed in a new order. Thank you. The factions? Please. The Party of the Regions – 178, “BUT – Fatherland” – 6, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 18, Communists – 26, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 24. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on overcoming social orphans in foreign-worked families]] [[Registration number 2578]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's committee on the legal policy of Shishkin Elin Viktorovn.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u89	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The committee at its meeting considered the bill. The bill proposes to introduce new forms of care and care, such as temporary care and temporary care provided by the care and care authorities at the joint request of the parent or the parent. With whom a child resides when a parent leaves for a permanent job abroad. The committee for second reading reached the 19 rights of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies. Of these 19 rights, the committee counted only one right, a colleague of Tolstenka. This bill is proposed to be rejected, since it may not be through the institution of temporary care but through the arrangement of parents and a person to whom a child is handed over for parental care, but rather through the agreement on the guardianship of a child to be notarized. The committee unanimously adopted the decision, so it proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject the bill. That is also true of the Chief Legal Authority. The committee made the same decision after hearing a representative of the Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports. So it can be said that the decision was unanimous and unanimous. The committee therefore proposes that the Supreme Council reject the bill, taking into account only one amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, we may do this. Since the committee has taken a single decision, a unanimous decision to reject the bill, I will make it in accordance with the Rules on the Adoption of the Bill in the second reading and in general as a law. And if this proposal is not supported, then it will mean that the bill is rejected. Is there no objection? I am voting on a second reading proposal and, in general, as a bill of the Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on overcoming social orphanages in overseas families. And before that, I remind you that the committee and the Chief Legal Authority have made a negative decision on this bill. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:15:25]] For-34 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on the prevention of illegal land grabbing]] And while the reporter - Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich - is right, I, my distinguished colleagues, will announce the decision of the BUT-Fathership faction on exclusion from the National Deputies' faction: Bagrajeva Mikoli Volodymyrovich, Burjak Alexander Vasilovich, Vasadze Tariel Shakrovič, Heisuka Petra Petrovich, Glossie Stepan Karlovich, Sigal Yevgen Jakovitch and Skoubenko Vladimir Petrovich. The final decision is not an accusation. Please, Vladislav Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u91	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Legal Policy considered at its meeting on 20 October 2010 a second reading, taking into account the proposals made by the legal entities of the legislative initiative - only 7 - the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to prevent illegal land grabbing, submitted by the national deputies of Karmazin, Bebazenko, Miroshnichenko and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 21 September 2010 on the first reading. During its consideration of the bill, the committee concluded that the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian national deputies Bebezenka and Karmazin were contrary to articles 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. At the same time, an amendment was taken into account regarding the rejection of the bill as a result of its second reading. In taking a decision, the committee noted that the initiators of the bill had submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine another bill to amend article 376 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, which proposed a more successful settlement of the issues and, taking into account the above-mentioned committee, considered it appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine as a result of the second reading. [[on Self - Building]] I'm willing to support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing to reject the bill. The Chief Legal Authority also believes that the bill should be rejected. So, if you don't mind, I'm going to put a second reading bill to the vote, and depending on your decision, we're going to decide. No objections? I am voting on the second reading of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to prevent illegal land grabbing. Registration number 3588. Please identify yourself. [[17:18:57]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending Chapter XI of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges on the transfer of cases relating to social benefits. [[Registration number 7148]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Justice, Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u93	This bill seeks to ensure the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 9 September 2010. This decision declared unconstitutional the provisions of Law 1691 of 18 February 2010, which were unconstitutional. Social benefits cases were transferred from the jurisdiction of administrative courts to civil courts. On first reading, the bill was adopted on 21 October 2010. In the preparation of the second reading bill, seven amendments to the bill were submitted to the Committee on Justice. The Committee at its meeting on 15 November 2010, when considering the bill, one of the amendments was fully taken into account, four amendments were partially taken into account, and two amendments were rejected. The result of the Committee's work is a comparative table for second reading, which provides for the next procedure for referral of cases involving social benefits. Cases opened in civil proceedings, as well as civil proceedings filed under the Code of Civil Procedure, lawsuits, appeals will be brought before the local and appeal courts to which they have been brought, but in administrative proceedings. In open cases, the courts have independently determined the closure of the GCC proceedings and the opening of the administrative proceedings. And these definitions will not be subject to appeal. For courts of cassation, it is provided that both cases in proceedings and cassation complaints on which no proceedings are opened are referred to the relevant administrative court for consideration under the rules of the Code of Administrative Procedure. I would also like to point out that, in our first reading of the bill, we have talked about the need to take into account the provisions of two other bills on this issue. Some of these provisions included amendment No. 6 of the People’s Deputies of Philippeenko. The Committee has repeatedly done so. The committee did not support it at its meeting, but it had been discussed on several occasions by the deputies, the judges of the administrative courts, and had found support as a rational change. The author also insists on the adoption of the amendment. I therefore propose that this matter be resolved by a vote in the Chamber and put to the vote. The second open question is the date of entry into force of the bill. In the table given to you, it is December 1, 2010. Given what this date has passed, I have a proposal to make a date on 15 December 2010. I would like mainly to support the Committee's decision and adopt this bill on second reading, generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, let us agree that it takes effect from the day of publication. It's going to be published and everything. Since the publication. Once the President signs, we publish, and everything will be fine. Yes, since the day of the publication. Now, now. Correction to 6th Pilpenko, please. And Pisarenko. And then there's 7 Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, we ask the sixth amendment to vote, and it is supported by the courts. And we're going to do a good thing for the people, because we're going to make it easier for them to go to trial. We give them the opportunity to hold such meetings in writing without a call, and we also clean up the plant in these cases in order to simplify the procedure and give people a way to get the money they're judging. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u96	So, you're suggesting you support your full-scale amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u97	Yes, we suggest we support the 6th full-scale amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u98	Well, I'm voting on amendment 6. Authors: Philippeenko and Pisarenko Please vote. [[17:24:07]] For 208 No correction supported. Now the 7th amendment. Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u99	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In this amendment, I wanted to draw your attention to a few moments. First moment. So that this law would take effect from the day it was published, as Vladimir Mikhailovich now spoke. I understand that if we vote for it, there will be a partial count. And second of all, I'd like us to assign Kabmin and provide ongoing monitoring to the court about the prosecution of the actions of the public authorities and the introduction of this information to the Supreme Council every month. And so that we can make changes to the original legislation and respond immediately to the public's challenges. Today, one million 28,000 claims against children of war have been met. And by the name of Ukraine, decisions have been made, and none have been made by the government of Azarov, reverend! Who gave you such a right, what do you do? Do you want this to continue? So, please, I'm writing a proposal here and I'm not going to be able to print it right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u100	Dear colleagues! Please note, I'm voting on Yuri Carmazin's seventh amendment. [[17:25:50]] For-23 Correction not accepted. Dear colleagues! We need to determine the date of the introduction of this document, the law in force. So I'm going to put to the vote the proposal of such an act that this law takes effect from the day it was published. And we have to make that decision then. Is the offer understood? Dear colleagues! And in fact, here's the clarification that this point is that this law takes effect from the day of publication, it's taken into account. Now we have every reason to put the draft law on the vote as a whole. It's on the right-hand side. Dear colleagues, I reiterate that this law takes effect on the day of its publication. And with this emphasis, I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and generally as a bill of the Act amending Chapter XI of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on the Courtship and Status of Judges on the transfer of cases relating to social benefits. [[Registration number 7148]] Please vote. [[17:27:52]] For 243 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the enforcement of legislation prohibiting gambling in Ukraine. At the same time, the General Legal Office states that the bill does not meet the requirements of Article 116 of the Rules. I'm asking the committee to bring it in line with the rules. Please microphone for the head of the Natalia Royal Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, we understand how we should comply with the rule of law. But when casinos have been encrypted under pseudowaves all over the country today, gaming machines, when we have passed the law last year and have not been able to guarantee and protect people from gambling, we can invoke any rule of the Rules, but we can adopt a strict law that will criminalize gambling. When the rights of the police are fully vested in them to have the right to close all underground establishments today, when we can identify who will be responsible for the elimination of the game business in our country, only then will we be able to protect the country from the total presence of slot machines and casinos. As long as we continue to encrypt the law, to amend it, to refer to the articles of the Rules, there will be underground casinos and slot machines in our country. I therefore propose to put to the vote and move away from the rule of the Rules, in this case, and to adopt a law which.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u102	Please, Valery Beales microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u103	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, in practice, I'd like to speak to a colleague of the Royals about something else. By our law or our decision to ban the gaming business, we have led to the fact that today, largely, the entire gaming business has gone under specific total control of the prosecution and the militia. And that's why I don't think that this stiff, from what our colleague has said, today's law will produce what we expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u104	Dear National Deputies! This is a discussion. Dear National Deputies! Let's make this happen, it's true, I don't deny it. Let us bring it into line with article 116, for we will consider it. Dear colleagues! First, we are preparing a draft law that we propose to make changes to one article with good intentions and after we want to put pressure on it. Dear colleagues, discussion. “The trade is not appropriate here”. Then bring into line with the requirements of Rule 116, and we will consider. Calm down, dear fellows, we know what's going on! I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Youth and Child Welfare. [[on age limits, participation in electoral coalitions]] [[Registration number 2593]] Reporter: Najdionov Andry Mihajlovich, Secretary of the Committee on Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u105	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The bill received 11 amendments from 8 Ukrainian national deputies, most amendments being editorial. It is proposed to take fully into account the 6 amendments, partially the 2 amendments, and editorially the 1 amendment. Two amendments are proposed to be rejected, one of which is an amendment, amendment No. 1 of the Ukrainian national deputy Krutsa is editorial and rejected by the deletion of the standard to which the amendment was made. The committee proposes to reject amendment No. 3 of the Ukrainian National Deputy Carmazin, which suggests that individual members of youth social organizations may be only 14 to 35 years of age, individual members of children’s social organizations, between 6 and 18 years of age. The application of this proposal will lead to the cessation of the activities of children’s social organizations, since according to the Ministry of Justice, the majority of children’s and youth organizations are adults. Part two of article 8 of the Act on Youth and Childhood Social Organizations is set out in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on State Targeted Programmes on the basis of proposals by the General Legal Authority. The Committee recommends the adoption of a bill as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u106	National deputy Krutz, insisting on his amendment? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, 3rd Amendment Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u107	Yuri Carmazin. Dear people's deputies, if you say my amendment in full, it's a little bit wider than it's been said right now. I propose a part of the fourth article of this article to read as follows: ” Individual members of youth social organizations may be persons aged 14 to 28, individual members of children’s social groups — from 6 to 18. The introduction of minors under the age of 10 into children’s social organizations is done by written consent of parents, adoptive parents, caregivers, or caregivers. Older persons may be members of youth and children’s social organizations.” After removing the words “as long as they do not exceed 10 percent of the total number of members in these organizations. The number of older persons may not exceed one third of the members of the electoral bodies in the election bodies of youth and children’s social organizations.” End of quote. The influence on young people and children’s organizations should not be directly exercised by adults. There are already enough pioneers and comsomol where young 50 - year - old Eugene the Rider was in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u108	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u109	The committee's decision. The amendment has been rejected because the ban on membership in older children’s social organizations will paralyze most of the child’s social organizations. Because, as has already been said, according to the Ministry of Justice, the vast majority of children’s leaders are adults. And this is going to be impossible to use in the future, because children's social organizations will cease to exist as such.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 3 of Yuri Karmazin. [[17:35:19]] For-9 Correction not supported. Yes, the following adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u111	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u112	Fully or partially counted or edited. Who among the authors insists on their amendments? Don't insist. Dear colleagues, the committee's decision, please, Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u113	The committee's decision is to adopt a bill as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u114	I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Youth and Childhood Social Organizations. [[Registration number 2593]] [[17:36:26]] For 249 The law is passed. Dear National MPs, I am announcing the draft Social Dialogue Act in Ukraine. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Stoyan Alexander Mihajlovich, Mikolaiovich, I apologize. It's nighttime. Dear colleagues! Just a minute. I'm going to read you the address we got from the International Committee of Trades, right? But I'm not going to read the whole text part. But I'll read the ending to you, so you'll understand. "In turn, we insist that the bill on social dialogue in Ukraine is not adopted today. But please assure us that this bill will be discussed further, taking into account the comments," and so on. The question is: So are we a parliament of whose?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u115	No, I'm interested in asking a question. Have another country write to Parliament: “We insist not to look.” We don't recommend, we don't ask, we insist on not looking. Well, that's a wild decision. Who writes such letters?Oh, my God! According to the signature, the secretary - general just handed me Mikhailo Wolinec. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u116	Dear colleagues! I'll stay at the separate decisions of the international office that you quoted here, Vladimir Mikhailovich. But it is a real shame when, for example, social organizations of other countries or associations intervene in the work of a parliament. We're the legislative body and we're going to determine. What is more, a law such as social dialogue is certainly necessary. In all countries of Europe, there are tripartite commissions or economic cooperation councils. These committees include government representatives, employers, and, as an arbitral judge, a more faithful union, and as an arbitral judge, governments. And this is a normal relationship when it comes to employment, budget issues, social protection. In our country, such a tripartite economic council also works, there are 15 representatives of the unions, from employers, from the government. But the trouble is that he's wearing this kind of, you know, I'd say, a recommendational, advisory character, because according to the President's past, it was his initiative, our committee prepared for the first reading, in the second of this Social Dialogue Act. We counted 62 proposals, and there were only 68, 62 counted, 6 partially counted, and there are no unaccounted for. What are we talking about? I want to get my attention. Indeed, this bill was sent to the International Labour Office. The International Labour Office is located in the ILO, Geneva. It's an influential body where governments, employers, unions, 160 countries are represented. And they made a few suggestions. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to make these proposals now and ask for the following. What does this office say? About you. What we need to do is predict the representativeness of the organizations. What is representativeness? Who has the right to represent, on a national level, trade unions that have a national level to represent the right of employers. We defined five criteria. Unfortunately, they didn't go into the second reading, but these are the criteria we have worked out. The next moment. We agreed with the International Labour Office, with its expert assessment of the need to eliminate prejudice, if small unions, and how they want to represent the interests of the labour groups, the interests of the workers. We said that these interests of the working groups could be represented by large trade unions that are representative. Therefore, we suggest in article 5 and in article 6 that we delete the last paragraphs. Next. I'm round like that. We've taken into account a few other suggestions that actually improve the situation of representation in social dialogue, in this national council of employers, trade unions and public authorities. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have another serious proposition. Today, this body works at the Cabinet of Ministers. We think it should be as an advisory body to the President of Ukraine. I would now like to vote on the second reading again so that I don't accept what I'm saying. We'll work fast, give us a short notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u117	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u118	We will certainly consider all the remarks because we would like this document, which we have been carrying for 10 years, to be a document that would express the interests of national-level unions, employers' federations, other employers' organisations and represent the interests of a state that mediates between employers and trade unions. And what our colleague Wolintz reads us is a criticism of the Labour Code everywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u119	Yeah, well, thanks. What, the second one again, huh? Dear colleagues, there is an offer to make a decision to send the bill for re-reading. I put this proposal to the vote, the second one, and then the replica. [[17:42:16]] For 234 Decision taken. The name Michael Wolinz was mentioned. He has the right to a replica. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u120	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I hope you haven't figured it out. I gave you a copy of the telegram addressed to the Prime Minister. Such a telegram came in the name of the President and in your name.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u121	Well, I read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u122	Secretary - General of the International Trade Union Confederation, which includes members of 138 trade unions in the world, 125 million members of trade unions. You talk so disrespectfully about it!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u123	This intervention in Ukraine’s internal affairs, resulting from this letter! Interference in Ukraine’s internal affairs! [[B in m in s a l in]] No one has the right to demand that the issue of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not be considered! That's it. And that's not a disgrace. It is a disgrace to those who sign such letters. Thank you. All of it. The draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications is being announced for consideration. [[on the definition of the market in telecommunications services]] [[Registration number 2149]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Morocco, Yuri Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u124	Dear colleagues! This bill regulates the interaction of communications operators in the organization of traffic gaps between their networks. [[Registration number 2149]] Only 36 amendments were made during the period provided for by the Rules to amend the bill in preparation for second reading. The Transport and Communications Committee considered them at its meeting and decided unanimously: 32 amendments should be taken into account, 4 should be rejected. The decision to reject 4 amendments is due to their contradiction with the very ideology of the bill adopted by the Supreme Council on first reading. The draft second reading text is supported by the National Communications Management Commission, the Communications Administration, the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The Transport and Communications Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, let's take a look at the amendments. Shiyanov, 8th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Shiyanov, 22th Amendment. 24 amendments. 32 revisions. All other amendments are included. Honorable National Deputies, the committee, as has just been designated, suggests that it be adopted in second reading and generally as a law. The Chief Legal Authority has no comment on this document. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law amending the Law on telecommunications in Ukraine. [[on the definition of the market in telecommunications services]] [[Registration number 2149]] Please vote. [[17:46:05]] For 243 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our evening session for 15 minutes. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Law on Telecommunications in Ukraine. [[on the provision of access to cable connection]] [[Registration number 5333]] The reporter is once again Yuri Mikolaiovich Moroko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u126	Respectable People's Deputies, the purpose of the bill is to eliminate conflict situations that arise between communication operators in the use of cable sewerage. [[Registration number 5333]] To this end, it is proposed that the first article of the Act should be supplemented by the definition of cable telecommunications and that article 66 should be amended in relation to the State regulation of the tariff for its use. During the period provided for by the Rules for Amendments, only 2 amendments were made to the Bill in preparation for second reading. The Transport and Communications Committee considered them at its meeting and decided to take them into account unanimously. Drafting of the second reading bill is supported by the National Communications Regulation Commission, the Communications Administration, the Ministry of Transport and Communications. There are comments to this bill from the Legal Office. The Committee has considered these observations and considers them unfounded. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments have been taken into account. A committee, a proposal: to accept in second reading and generally as a law. The Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill needs substantial work. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications of Ukraine. [[on the provision of access to cable connection]] [[Registration number 5333]] [[17:48:50]] For 237 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to consider the draft Law on Lombards and Lombardy Activities, but at the same time it does not meet the requirements, more specifically, violates the Rules, in particular Article 116, and the Committee, understanding this, has submitted a letter requesting that consideration of the law be deferred, will bring it into line with the requirements of the Rules. Is there no objection? Thank you. I now propose your consideration of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the responsibility of carriers carrying out international passenger transport. [[Registration number 7010]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u128	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! This bill, which you are proposing in your second reading, was drafted to implement the European Council Conventions on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings, which was ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 21 September 2010. The bill was adopted in the first reading at the same time as the ratification of the convention and defined as urgent by the President of Ukraine, since it meets our international obligations to combat the illegal movement of people, trafficking in human beings. So, on this bill, on the second reading, 15 amendments were made to it by national deputies, four of them from Anatolia Seminoga and 14 from Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, and the other seven that I personally signed are those comments that were made by a working group that also included representatives of the Committee of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport and the Association of Carriers. So in preparing for the second reading, we in the working group were completely in line with those positions. We don't have any of our own money to put in here. And this bill is exactly, in preparation for the second reading, a project is balanced both with the interests of the transporters and with the Ministry of Justice in terms of our international legal obligations. This bill received a number of comments from the General Legal Office. For most of these observations, we have an absolute negative answer. Our committee has considered them and can explain why we are proposing to reject them and not consider them, because some of them are comments that it is argued that the bill should be repealed at all and that it should be amended in a completely different way. That could be agreed with, but the bill was tabled by the President. He went through his first reading. I'd like to see how in this room this bill, which has been designated by the President as urgent, will now be rejected. Obviously, that's not going to happen. So obviously it needs to be adapted as much as possible for normal use. There are several suggestions from the General Legal Office, which in principle are logical, but they directly violate 160 articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, which we are thus required to have in law. We agree that some amendments, including those in the Civil Code, should be made, but we cannot now make them available for the second reading here because of this article. That's why we're not doing this. I hope that after that we can sit down and work on whether the President as the author of the basic legislative initiative or from the MPs will be amended by the next bill. I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, will ask for literally another second, because I speak in law. There's only one point where we can really seriously agree with the conclusion of the General Legal Authority, because this was given to us in this form literally yesterday in the afternoon, in the evening. We couldn't get him on the committee anymore, and I'm just going to post him under the transcript. And I think, and our committee thinks that really makes sense. Yes, at all points relating to amendments to the Ukrainian Air Code, the Ukrainian Merchandise Maritime Code, as well as to rail transport and road transport, we have noted that responsibility for these violations, which are foreseen when the carrier has not checked prior documents on the right to travel abroad or to transit, is borne in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. We've been told by the Legal Department that it's the right thing to do. articles of the Constitution. Liability of civil liability, criminal responsibility, establishment of crime, etc. is defined exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. And so, under the transcript, I propose that, at these four points, which are marked by the Rule of Law, we replace "Ukraine's legislation" with "Ukraine's laws", which is really consistent with constitutional norms. Thank you for your attention. We're ready to go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u129	Dear colleagues! Amendments to Semenoga, second and third, do you insist on it? No, it's not. Six, Seminog? No, it's not. Seven, don't insist. Ten, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u130	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Taras Viacheslavovich! I am grateful for the amendments that have been taken into account, but I would like now to stop at this amendment and that you told the country yesterday that Karmazin, contrary to the Rules, proposed a denunciation of the Law on the avoidance of double taxation with the Republic of Cyprus. I would like you to raise a new Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, in particular Article 202, which provides for the right of a deputy to initiate questions about the denunciation of the international agreement. And then they said exactly the same thing: Yuri Anatolyevich, you're wrong. I'll be happy. But I'd like you to come back to this and let's look at the issue of denunciation, so we can stop the flow of funds from Ukraine. That's a separate question. On this point. In paragraph 5 of Subparagraph 1, the question is this. I would like to replace this with the following text: “it compensates for the costs incurred by the State in disposing of the persons mentioned.” Because Ukraine doesn't have a fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u131	Yuri Anatoliyovich, referring to the first, if very briefly, one of the principles that our committee has proposed, but so far it has been blocked by all, the judiciary and all the factions have spoken against, so that the Supreme Council has the right to initiate international agreements, initiate only or denounce them. Sadly, this did not happen. There is the Law on International Contracts, unfortunately too. Next. As for your proposal, we considered it very carefully in the working group. We've come to the conclusion that the level of responsibility that relies on carriers, it's still the maximum. The violations referred to here are not criminal abuse in the direction of deliberately importing illegal, deliberate, other things. As a result of the fact that the laws here, I agree with the first point of the legal authorities' observations, really, have problems with a certain possibility of abuse by the authorities, we have tried not to overwhelm, exceed, choke the carriers. You're proposing to withdraw the "not less than 20,000" rule. This is clearly written in your amendment: Remove this rule no less.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the 10th amendment. [[17:57:13]] For-12. No correction supported. Then it's amendment 12. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u133	Yuri Carmazin. It's too bad we spend so much money. Because I suggested that the cost of disposing of these persons be reimbursed to the State. The same is true in most countries of the world. Well, we don't want to take international experience into account. Amendment 12 foresees that part two of article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Responsibility for Passengers' Air Transport across the State Border of Ukraine without proper documents for entry into Ukraine should be edited as follows: “The payment of fines imposed under this law, including by foreign carriers, shall be carried out in the national currency of Ukraine”. This is consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine, and this is what happens in all states, as long as the exchange of currencies -- that's where the state makes the money, and that's what's going on. These are the costs for the state and the currency other than the bracelet -- this is recorded in the Constitution -- there is no money in Ukraine. That is why the fine has to be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u134	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! The committee and the working group considered the amendment. The recommendation was not to take this provision into account in this law. There are other legislative acts, there is a Code on Administrative Violations, and so on, which defines the procedure for the collection, there can be no specific procedure for carriers to pay fines. You write, "in the case of this law." How about in the case of a law, let's say when a foreigner got hit there, when someone washed the oil, when the South port was fueled by the ship? Are we going to write a fine separately for each of us? This has to be written in one piece of legislation. So our position, once again, I'm going to report, not my position here, but the position of the committee. The position of the committee in conjunction with the position of the Ministry of Justice was a proposal in this particular case in this law not to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u135	Yes, Your Honor, I'm voting for Amendment 12 of Yuri Carmazin. [[17:59:39]] For-19 Correction not supported. Yes, all other amendments are included, dear colleagues, please, Taras Viacheslavovich, finally.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u136	The Supreme Council's Committee on Foreign Affairs is asking to support the adoption of the bill as a whole, that is in line with our international obligations, we understand that the transformation that was selected by the authors in the fire order to amend, firstly, several Ukrainian codes and the Law on the Responsibility for Air Transport without proper documents, to adapt it to the railway, to the car, to others, is likely to be somewhat damaging. But first. The scope of our international obligations has made it urgent for us to take this option into account. We understand that the legal authorities have pointed out that there are some broadness of mind, but from the 160th article of the Rules, which limits us enough, we cannot do more than the committee has done. I think it's done as much as possible. So we're asking you now to support in that editorial that is from the President with the work of the committee and the Cabinet of Ministers, and we're going to continue to make some changes to the laws that are already in force later.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a law as a whole. A number of comments were made by the Chief Legal Authority, the first deputy chairman of the committee. I would like to vote on the second reading proposal and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the responsibility of carriers carrying out international passenger transport. [[Registration number 7010]] Please vote. [[18:01:38]] For 258. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, this is the Cabinet of Ministers requesting the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on certain issues of the organisation of the budgetary process in 2010. [[Registration number 7422]] About getting into the agenda, and then we'll figure it out if the Supreme Council puts it in the agenda. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on certain matters of the organisation of the budgetary process in 2010. [[Registration number 7422]] Please vote. [[18:02:34]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and another little bill, and we'll finish that. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities. [[concerning restrictions on civil servants]] [[Registration number 6275]] The rapporteur is Tereshuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. Please, very briefly, make the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u138	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, for your consideration for the second reading, is proposing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities. [[Registration number 6275]] This law proposes to clarify the concept of agricultural advisory work. The law also specifies the order of the registration of counsellors. And it also provides for a procedure for improving the qualifications of counselors and experts. Seven suggestions were made to the second reading. All suggestions are considered in the committee. The proposals came from the national deputies of Karmazin, Kirilczuk, Sidelnikov, Perestenko. Most of the proposals made by the people’s deputies are included in the bill. So the committee's decision is that we have every reason, the bill has been finalized, to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u139	Now let's talk to Yuri Anatolyovich, we'll make a decision. Yuri Anatolyevich, the first amendment rejected, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u140	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! This is about the definition of the first amendment. The definition of an agricultural advisory service, followed by an advisory service, is a legal person, regardless of its legal form and form of ownership, which carries out advisory activities involving at least 3 advisers and which have been registered in accordance with legislation and entered into the advisory services register.” I propose to write: “The educational and scientific institutions have the right to make agreements on the execution of the relevant work by their structural units.” I mean, I'm talking about dividing the notion that a legal person, because an education facility is a legal person, doing work, doing work. And work can be done by structural units, and payment, of course, to legal persons, since structural units do not even have their own accounts. And I'm talking about the right to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u141	Yuri Anatoliyovich, we talked about this amendment with you. The fact is that this bill does not prohibit scientific institutions, educational institutions just to conclude how legal persons to conclude contracts.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u142	I bet on the vote of Amendment No. 1. [[18:05:56]] For -6 The repair is not supported. Amendment 6, Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u143	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I suggested that article 9 write it down, write it down. You don't agree, do you? See the Tax Code. They were bullied, bullied Karmazin, and then the President copied two-thirds of the proposals. And now you've voted, just like the testicles, by one stroke of our friend Chechchev's hand. Huh? Well, please use the offer. They don't just give out. Article 9 suggests that we put it this way: “Registers of advisers and advisory services. The central executive body of agricultural policy creates and maintains a register of advisory services, provides free access to the register through its official website. The Cabinet of Ministers approves the registration and so on." It's rejected, but the main goal here is to access the official website. It's about to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u144	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 6 of Yuri Carmazin. [[18:07:31]] For-7. The decision is not taken. And the 8th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. Please, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u145	Yuri Carmazin. They say it's taken into account, even though it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u146	No, it's on the sidelnky. The same type of text as yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u147	So write it partially or in an article like that. Do you understand? Okay. Article. 8 The amendment refers to changes to part 10 of the article. Part 4 of article 10, which I propose, reads: “Financing the professional training of counselors and experts of consultants is done at the expense of the business entities that have commissioned them.” So let's get this out of the state. Because so far it's written that it's in the state, and without the necessary calculations, there's an observation by the Chief Legal Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m1.u148	I'll bet you the vote on Jury Carmazin's 8th amendment. [[18:08:54]] For-9 Correction not supported. Thus, fellow believers, all the amendments have been considered. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. The Chief Legal Authority made comments on this document. But the committee believes that this law, the draft law, should be adopted. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities. [[concerning restrictions on civil servants]] [[Registration number 6275]] Please vote. [[18:09:45]] For 246 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we will continue our plenary work from 10 a.m. to Friday. At 10 o'clock, the "hour of questions to the government" will begin. The question will be answered by the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Sergey Tihypco.
