ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u1	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. On December 9, the President of Ukraine initiated the first stage of administrative reform, which envisions significant changes in the structure of the central executive bodies. The President of Ukraine stresses that the implementation of administrative reform will work to improve the efficiency of government, to bring power closer to human beings. Until recently, a system by which a single body, usually the Ministry of Industry, at the same time approved the decision, ensured its implementation and controlled the process, demonstrated complete inefficiency. Under these conditions, widespread opportunities have been created for corruption, abuse of power, sabotage of law enforcement, and disregard for people’s interests. In the first phase, priority is given to reforming the Cabinet of Ministers as a higher body in the system of executive authorities. In particular, the number of government members has been drastically reduced, government committees have been cancelled, the Cabinet Secretariat will be reduced by more than 50 percent. This will allow us to accelerate the preparation, negotiation, and adoption of government decisions, and avoid duplication of functions. Six types of central executive bodies have been identified: Ministry, Service, Inspection, Agency, Independent Regulators and Special Status Authorities. Of the 112 central executive authorities, 63 were created, including 16 ministries, 28 services, 13 agencies, and seven inspections. The administration of the ministries, which introduces the office of head of the apparatus, has changed. At the same time, the minister has two deputies with political status. A new system of government is being introduced whereby ministries will develop a strategy of action, in fact politics, agencies will manage state property, natural resources, implement projects, services will provide services to citizens and legal persons, inspections will exercise control over the interests of citizens over the work of the listed bodies, and independent registries will adopt objective and impartial decisions in the markets of natural monopolies, again on behalf of citizens. At the same time, the public service is being reformed. The President of Ukraine is preparing to submit to Parliament draft laws on the State Service, on the central executive authorities, as well as amendments to the laws on the Office of Ministers, on the fight against corruption, and on the activities of independent regulators of national commissions to regulate the markets of natural monopolies. Our common priority is the adoption of the Public Information Act and the new edition of the Information Act, which will prevent officials from concealing information and making it impossible to abuse it, will ensure public control over the decision-making and enforcement of administrative decisions at all levels. Dear voters, dear colleagues! The main objective of administrative reform is to make power accessible, transparent and effective, as well as for citizens under control. In the system of executives, from the Cabinet of Ministers and Ministries to district and district administrations, professional decisions should be approved without delay, and the preparation and decision-making should be open to the public. We need to get rid of the duplication of functions in various ministries and departments, simplify the procedure for preparing and agreeing on draft decisions, speed up their adoption, and ensure that they are implemented in a consistent manner, by introducing the responsibility of decision makers and their implementation. In addition, the authorities must become truly accessible to citizens. In particular, by providing free access to public information, a real public discussion of decision-making projects, a regulatory personal adoption of citizens by the authorities. In the course of administrative reform, there will indeed be a reduction in the number of civil servants. However, first, the release will take place in strict compliance with the requirements of Labour Law, with all social guarantees. Secondly, these specialists will be able to work in the national economy, which is going to be a positive impetus to the economy. Reforming central executives is only the first stage of administrative reform. Planned change in the entire executive system, a significant reduction in officials who represent central authority in places, and a simultaneous increase in the role and authority of local governments, but not by increasing their numbers, but by increasing their quality of work. The next step will be to reform local governments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u2	Thank you, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u3	The President of Ukraine has set up a clear mandate to form a competent, efficient and mobile state apparatus capable of ensuring the adoption and implementation of state decisions, providing quality services to citizens, and being able to carry out reforms and modernization of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u4	Sergey Greenewecki, faction of the People's Party, behind him is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u5	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The most important topic today is, of course, social reform and reform of government, in particular. At first glance, the goal was to optimize the system of central authorities and improve the efficiency of government administration. As a proponent of strong regional policy, I would like administrative reform to be one of the first steps towards removing obstacles to regional development, overcoming over-centralisation and bureaucracy. So I hope that this initiative will eventually come into a new format of the relationship between the center and the regions and become the basis for national interests. At the same time, we should not forget that the future of transformation depends on the people who implement it. Reform can be discredited by carelessly implementing it, eroding its essence, indulging the resentment of society. In recent years, we have witnessed many important transformations slowed down because of inefficient work or outright sabotage and misunderstanding of their actions for citizens. The key to the effectiveness of reforms is the succession of power. Regrettably, it is difficult to speak of a clear adherence to this principle, since it was violated back in 2005 when the mass purge of government officials took place. Today, it is once again a question of forming a professional activity that would serve the state, not corporate and egotistical interests. At a recent RNBO meeting, the President of Ukraine urged the government to tell the truth about the socio-economic situation in the country. Moreover, improving the effectiveness of reporting on the activities of executive authorities and disseminating information on reforms in Ukraine is seen as a response to the State's national security challenges in 2011, particularly in the President's decree of 10 December of the current year. The Tax Code has already been adopted, which has led to a mixed response in society. Other legislation is equally important and we do not know how citizens will react to it. There is an example of a pension reform. For a long time, we heard shy assurances from the authorities that there would be no rise in the retirement age for Ukrainian citizens. Today we hear the opposite. As well as to whom to trust in this situation, the same people said. When authorities keep their mouths shut or lie, alternative sources of information begin to work. In fact, technology today allows this to be done quickly and effectively. The truthfulness of power, to my belief, begins with the denial of double standards, respect for law, the Constitution, laws. Very often the words “deficit” and “inflation” refer to budget deficits and monetary inflation. However, there are few who speak of such concepts as the lack of social support and the inflation of trust. Of course, we cannot expect unpopular and painful measures to be positively taken by the population. This has not happened in more prosperous countries than ours, but at least there the authorities openly speak of the need for restrictions and appeal to citizens for understanding rather than to refuse. Today, Ukraine expects another tranche from the International Monetary Fund. In this regard, I would like to hear the answers to such questions. Whether it would be a condition for receiving a second tranche would be the following: a pension reform with a mandatory increase in retirement age and, as is consistent with the Constitution; a introduction of a penny for debt, a housing-communal farm with the possibility of evicting from housing; a further increase in the price for gas in 2011 with a gradual introduction to the market; a reduction in the budget deficit to 3.5 per cent of GDP in 2011 and 2.5 per cent in 2012; a phased increase in tariffs for the services of the LHK; and a denial of the release of the fifth tranche of VAT-obligations; a withdrawal of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. The last question is of particular importance. Ukraine’s modern - day land, as a commodity, will always be interested in a large foreign capital, giving rise to legitimate fears. How will our main national wealth be privatized, and will we not be paid for the loans received by the country’s Blacklands? Society awaits the true answers to these questions. True, whatever it may be, it is better than constant silence. And the truth from the side of power is respect for its citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u6	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Get ready, Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! As one Western economist said, "you can't solve the problem until you admit you have it." On 2 December, the predominant parliamentary majority adopted a decision based on purely political motives, namely, not adopted, refused to vote in favour of the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on the status and prospects of Ukraine's relations with Russia and the European Union. The government demonstrated its unwillingness to discuss the key issues of foreign policy in public. But the external political imbalances in the triangle of Ukraine-Europe-Russia will not go anywhere. As we know, problems are slowly solved, but they multiply rapidly. I've already mentioned that in the European direction we have much lower dynamics than in Russian. On the one hand, an amorphous plan of action on a visa-free regime that the European Union has not committed to, as well as negotiations on an association agreement that has lasted for four years. From the second barter, the gas fleet, and more and more concrete projects in the basic areas of the Ukrainian economy. But would Ukraine benefit from this high dynamic of relations with Russia? Lately, we've been seeing constant attempts to control our gas transport system, to merge Naftogazu with Gazprom, and we're seeing relapses in customs wars. These parliamentary hearings were also designed to determine the external political balance in the triangle of Ukraine-Europe-Russia. A balance of convenience, first and foremost, for Ukraine. A comprehensive analysis requires a joint and coherent work of legislative and executive branches of government. Parliamentary hearings are an adequate way to bring their efforts together in a transparent and public manner. But the citizens were given to understand: all key foreign policy decisions will continue to be made in a culinary manner. I am sure that this imprisonment by foreign policy in high offices harms both the superior leadership of the State and the country as a whole. Regrettably, some of the deputies are devalued by national parliamentaryism. Most, in fact, refuse the right and obligation established by the Supreme Council of the Constitution to determine the principles of Ukraine’s internal and external policies. We have put forward draft new Decree 7432 on the holding of parliamentary hearings on two specific topics in Ukraine's relations with Russia and the European Union. I am referring to the possibility of joining the Customs Union of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, as discussed by our high-holders, as well as the entire cluster of issues related to the agreement on a free trade zone with the European Union. How will steps in the direction of the Customs Union in our European and global integration take place? Let me remind you, the movement to Europe is the main thrust of our foreign policy, it's legally fixed and no one has canceled it. But there is a threat: firstly, restrictions on access to European markets and technologies; secondly, the maximum complexity, if not a breakdown, of the process of negotiations on a free trade area with the EU. Because the Customs Union has its own commission, which also negotiates with third countries. Ukraine will have only one vote. Unlike other members of the Customs Union, Ukraine is a member of the World Trade Organization. So for us to join this alliance will be conflicts with WTO countries and corresponding economic sanctions. As you can see, there are more than enough questions to discuss. I hope that this time politics will back down, common sense and responsibility will prevail, and the Supreme Council will vote in favour of this decision. We have nowhere to be apart from serious professional discussions on foreign policy issues. Only such an executive, legislative branch of authority will be able to come to a well - thought - out and useful decision - making country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u8	Thank you. Simonenko is Peter Mikolaiovich, a faction of Communists. He will be followed by Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u9	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! One of the key issues that we need to address in the near future, and which concerns everyone, is the reform of the pension system. A review of the Government's proposals for pension reform gives rise to the statement that they are not designed for the benefit of the human being, not for the purpose of improving the standard of living of our pensioners, but only for the purpose of obtaining a second tranche of IMF credit and in line with IMF bond requirements. First, we, the communists, believe that it is unacceptable and immoral that, in the last two decades, when life expectancy in Ukraine has dropped dramatically, the retirement age has been raised and the five-year pensionable working life has been increased: up to 30 years for women and 35 years for men. We are confident that such measures will lead to a significant increase in unemployment, particularly among our young people. What should young people do when they are unemployed? To a glass, a needle of junkies, criminal groups, or to leave outside Ukraine. As a result, there is an additional threat to national security associated with the increase in crime, homelessness, homelessness and the deepening of social degradation. Secondly, we oppose the abolition of special pensions for those who have worked in difficult conditions and in harmful production for the veterans of the armed forces and law enforcement agencies, other categories of citizens whose work or service is at risk to health and life. The proposed reduction of pensions for retired workers is seen as a violation of their constitutional rights. We categorically object to the taxation of pensions by income tax because it is not income, it is the savings of our citizens. At the same time, we believe it is necessary to significantly reduce the gap between maximum and minimum pensions by cutting disproportionately high pensions, which are now established for certain categories of civil servants: prosecutors, judges, ministers, deputies and so on. Minimum pensions should be raised and social justice restored in this regard. Thirdly, there are no conditions in Ukraine today for the introduction of two parallel pension systems: savings and solidarity. Let us, dear colleagues, look at things for real. The low level of wages, the high level of prices, the high level of housing and utility payments does not give Ukrainian workers, peasants, teachers, doctors, academic and creative workers, cultural workers, employees, small entrepreneurs and so on to put money into the savings fund. According to the United Nations, more than 80 per cent of our citizens live below the poverty line. Moreover, the high unemployment rate and the tension of the economy give me reason to believe that money will not be in either solidarity or personal savings funds. In addition, there has been a real problem and the State is under an obligation to control another problem today. These are, above all, prices of socially significant goods, services and food, housing and utility tariffs, so that inflation and price increases do not eat labour pensions. Tigypto's next adventure will result in a social explosion and, of course, a decline in the standard of living of our citizens. Dear colleagues! I would also like to share with you today some considerations that there is a scandal over the publication of WikiLeaks by secret American diplomats. It does not matter whether this leak or a specially planned operation is accidental. The fact remains. But today we need to examine in more detail what has happened during the years of independence in Ukraine. The documents published are only part of that criminal betrayal of national interests that have confirmed the rightfulness of our conclusions that, in the years since Ukraine's withdrawal from the USSR, our country has gained only paper independence and paper sovereignty, fully under the authority of international capital in the head of the United States and the International Monetary Fund. Remember, dear colleagues, at the dawn of our independence, a foreign adviser was represented to each minister. Each civil servant was, in fact, given instructions as to how he should act. Remember, the Supreme Council, by enacting Ukrainian laws, translated from English and other languages the laws of other States, not the laws of the people of Ukraine. Remember how the fifth column was formed in Ukraine. Sorosovese urchins here told us how to live. Moreover, when state-of-the-art granite structures have taken Ukraine today and in fact form the fifth column of Ukrainian citizens, which is treacherously related to the development and development prospects of Ukraine. I would also like to draw your attention to what is in the field.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u10	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u11	To draw your attention, dear colleagues, to the fact that these orange field commanders were also trained by Americans not to fight for independence, but to destroy Ukraine's prospects. I therefore believe that the Office of the Attorney-General must take very seriously the responsibility of those officials and those who have fled to the United States Embassy to report his betrayal of the Rodin and how he is changing his people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, Javorowski, the faction of “Timoshenko Block”, passes to John Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u13	Respectable compatriots! It's almost New Year's Eve, almost the 20th anniversary of independence. Remember, we've started our new countdown, with many indicators in the world's 20 most developed countries. We're in the 20s now, but we're in the second hundredth. Clearly, the old approaches, which both have lived and worked for all these years, have long been exhausted. The radical renewal of all aspects of our existence is inevitable. And the possibilities were unique for the first time. We have never had such an obedient vertical of all branches of power, so clear their subordination to a single center, never before in automatic mode at the single wave of the hand worked by a national parliament. In other words, we can do everything, including reform, without paying attention to anything or anyone. And apparently, the process has gone. Which way? Yes, reforms can be implemented quickly, even effectively, by choosing the shortest route, namely, the redistribution of the common pie, or the removal of one from another and passing it on to others. But it doesn't make pie anymore. There's another way: putting resources into development, creating new products with qualitatively different properties. This is, of course, a longer road, with no special effect at the beginning, with many unknown and significant risks. But let's look at the Great Twenties experience where Ukraine, by the way, is going to break through in a few years. It's not ironic to say that. Because the history of South Korea is worth looking at. In the area, these are just a few of our areas, but with much poorer resources. And they produce almost a trillion dollars a year in goods and services. We're 10 times smaller, by the way. And another 30 to 40 years ago, Korea was where Somalia is today. Where did they start? They put what they could in, not in redistribution, but in the brains, that is, in science, in super-modern technology, in promising development. As a result, for 20 years, we have been transporting 500 dollars a tonne of metal to those countries, and from there we have made light cars, modern household technology, computers, and very soon nanotechnology. In the new value added, the price of this metal goes up hundreds, even thousands of times. But it's not the metal that forms the value of the final product anymore, it's the brain. That's where they get high wages, they're worthy of pensions, they've got plenty of budgets, and they've got a beautiful life. So we don't have radical structural changes, especially in the economy, that is, without creating new high-tech productions and even areas of any Ukrainian miracle, no breakthrough and no higher standard of living. So we're going to be a third-rate raw material supplement for the strong world of this world. No such breakthrough can be seen in the money offered by the authorities. No one will contradict me. The bloated apparatus should not be cleaned; it should be cut short. Finally, as we suggested, there is a need for justice in pension matters. But this is far from reform. And it's just that it's just that it's just that it's just that it's just that it's just that it's just that it's just that it's just that it's kind of the same redistribution. And we're going to take existing taxes on reform. Where are the powerful motivations for the new development principle? Oh, no. There's most of the same banal redistribution. As a result, rich oligarchs are taxed less. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are bigger. At least for the fuel complex, something was expected to be offered. Because we are the only country in the world that, without damaging its food security, can fully provide alternative, renewable, environmentally friendly biofuels. Small costs need to be paid, five-year pension taxes, and we can get another level of energy dependence, hundreds of thousands of modern jobs, guaranteed motivation for the agricultural sector. Unfortunately, this is neither in the Tax Code nor in the 2011 budget. Once again, millions of tons of seeds will be transported to Europe. And from there, the coin is biofueled with the euro. And for some time now, fellow countrymen will logically ask, Why are they poor? There is high suspicion that similar approaches will be put into other reforming innovations. Pension reform will increase the retirement age. Women's pity. They have a hard time finding work at 35 years of age. The reform in the JRC will result in a sharp increase in tariffs, and prices for services will be a dragonpen. I won't talk about the Labour Code. When you came to power, Your Honor, you made it clear that it was serious for a long time. If so, we need to make changes that are profound and thorough. No pharaohs and no decorations. Because it's not gonna be serious, and it's not gonna be for long. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u14	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Dear colleagues! Presentations by factions and authorized persons have been completed. Let's move on to the daily routine. Consider the chapter on inclusion in the agenda of the day session. I would like to put to the vote a motion for the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 7450, a draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine. This has to do with the adoption of the budget, respected colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:31:39]] For 251 Copy that. Please, Sass, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. Well, in order to put a question in order of the day, we still have to follow the procedure provided for in the Rules. In particular, part of the first article 23, where it is stated that the inclusion of issues in the approved agenda is included in the same procedure as in the agenda of the day session, which means that a brief discussion is to be held, a preliminary conclusion of the committee on these issues is needed. The bill is given to the national deputies only today, although the Rules provide for other points. He provides for the inclusion of more than fourteen laws in Ukraine, establishes taxes, congregations, and other matters that resolve taxation. So, Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to pay attention to the requirements of the Rules and to carry out clearly the procedure provided for by law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u16	Thank you. We'll turn around. We put it into the agenda, we don't look at it. So when we look at it, you'll have the word to make a noise and dust out of this bill. There is a proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families. [[on material support for motherhood and childhood]] [[Registration number 7350]] [[Bill author – President of Ukraine]] Please be supportive. [[10:33:33]] For 273 Thank you, supported. And let's just say, fellow colleagues, to the point of colleague Sasa, let's make progress in this way. If any of you have any warnings about any bill that I'm going to announce, raise your hand, we'll listen to you. I'm asking for a review of the inclusion in the agenda of the City Activities Regulation Act. [[on the reduction of permit procedures in construction]] [[Registration number 7418]] [[Subject of the legislative initiative - Cabinet of Ministers]] It doesn't, does it? Then I'll put it to a vote. [[10:34:28]] For 229 The bill is included in the agenda. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the violation of personal data protection legislation, Bill 7355. [[Initiative subject - Government]] Please vote. [[10:35:06]] For 246 Included in the agenda. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on supervision on a consolidated basis. [[registration 7399]] The drafter is the National Bank. You know we gave them this opportunity back, the Constitutional Court returned it more faithfully. There's a note. Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! How can we put the day in order that we actually don't have it yet? The committee has not considered this bill, and there is no scientific expertise. So he literally came to our committee one day, and we got him. It's a very complicated bill, and we're putting it in the agenda. So I suggest you don't include him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u18	Right. But he came to the Supreme Council on November 19th, handed over to the Committee on November 30. Not so much time, but it's been two weeks, yes, more. I'm proposing the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the supervision of a consolidated basis]] [[Registration number 7399]] Please vote. [[10:36:45]] For 280 The question is included. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending the laws of Ukraine "On State Procurement" and "On the organization and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Championship from football in Ukraine" is addressed by colleague Zac. [[Registration number 7348]] Please. Yes, please, Simonek's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u19	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to comment on why the faction will now abstain from voting. We need to be clear. One thing is the European Championship, and we support the European Championship, what football means, and what the State should really be ready and not lose its international image and authority. But the point is that because of the comma, “the other sporting activities ” were added. What's "others"? We already have, let's say, under “others” everything we want, and in whatever way they're leaving to be liable to the State by paying the same taxes. Therefore, if another event provides for some, let's say, misunderstandings to us today and have no meaning to the football championship of Europe, we naturally have a question. We will therefore now abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u20	Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, I support Peter Mikolaiovich for two additional reasons. First. When it comes to the use of funds without tendering, we should have a bill from the government, and we should have a government. let us know. By the way, the previous law that we voted on, it takes into account my amendment that the government should report to the Supreme Council on the use of budget funds without tender procedures. Now. There's a group of national deputies. I don't think it's right because it's about billions of dollars. Obviously, this should be done by the government, and the government should explain it to us. The second additional thesis on Peter Simonnck's argument is that our scientific expertise is legally proving that the bill is not necessary at all, since it is said that we are making a kind of precise name. If the precise names of every central and executive body that the Constitution creates or eliminates, we will submit, so we will then turn v. not into a Parliament, but into a body that corrects normative documents. Most importantly, what our colleague said is that the name creates a double interpretation, that we may be expanding the scope of unscheduled purchases, let's say, for other purposes that are not understood in the text of the bill. I believe that in this way the bill does not have to be included, we need to consult and hear the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u22	Thank you. I think the remarks are perfectly fair. But we're just putting it in the agenda, and when we're discussing the bill, I think we're going to be able to actually make these adjustments, especially as far as going beyond the Euro-12 is concerned, because under other international competitions, we can understand a lot of things. Now, when we get the Winter Olympics, we'll be taking the law. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 7348 on amending the laws of Ukraine on public procurement and on organising and holding the final part of the European Championship in the 12th year of football in Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:40:45.]] For 225 Not supported. By factions, please, the Party of the Regions – 179, Fatherland – zero, our Ukraine – self-defence – six, the Communists – did not vote, the People's Party – 20, the non-fractional – 20. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is an offer to return, please vote. [[10:41:22]] For 226 We're back. I am voting for the inclusion in the Order of the Day Act number 7348, the amendment of the Ukrainian State Procurement Act and the organization and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. [[10:42:01]] For 228 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions? Please, Party of Regions – 179, BUT – zero, Our Ukraine – Self-Defense – seven, Communist – zero, People's Party – 20, non-faction – 22. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in the agenda of the National Qualifications System Act, registration number 7215, author of the bill by the national deputy Shevchuk. I'd like to make a statement. Yes, take down the vote. Samolik, please. [[10:42:21]] 7215 Draft National Qualifications Act
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u23	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, the bill was discussed on the profile committee three times and he declined. Well, behind the real names of the drafters of the bill are the developers who stand on foreign grants. And so, of course, this bill does not correspond in any way to any Ukrainian law, it violates the legal field of our country. As a result of the situation, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, together with the committee, has set up a working group that is working on a national qualification system that is really relevant and essential to our country. In view of the above, I would like to ask you, dear colleagues, to abstain from voting in order to bring the bill into line with the legislation of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u24	Thank you. In the light of my comments, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the National Qualifications Act. [[Registration number 7215]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:44:14]] Z-11. The proposal is not supported, the bill is not included. The inclusion in the agenda of the daily project The Ukrainian Handbook is under consideration. Administrative-territorial system’. [[Registration number 7395]] Dear colleagues, I would very much like to ask you. Now, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Pay attention to the explanatory note on why we should do this. We published our latest guide 23 years ago, in 1987. During this time, we have restored the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which is not included in that handbook, the refined Ukrainian spelling of the Plain region, there was the Rowen region, the redesignation of the Lugansk region, there was the Vorosilograd region, assigned or renamed 576 locations. In 1987, there were a total of 30,000,252 locations in Ukraine, and now there are only 29,801. There were 480 districts, now 490. And so on. So there have been major changes, and this is an official handbook that has to take all of this into account. So I would very much like to support this draft decision to be included in the agenda. Please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I ask that you pay attention to the following situation. There is no law in this bill. There is no financial-economic justification. This is about funding the project at the expense of the Supreme Council. In accordance with the draft State Budget Act, the Supreme Council will not receive more than 100 million dollars for 2011. So in this case, it's going to have to be within 1.7 million dollars at the expense of the Supreme Council's corrosion. Perhaps in this situation it would be more pragmatic to refrain from approving the Supreme Council site as an official publication of this manual, where changes can be made, as such changes will be made in the future. And that would be cheaper, and that would solve those questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u26	Thank you. I think when we talk about when we take it, not putting it into the agenda, we'll take all the right suggestions into account. And now I'm betting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Ukraine Manual. Administrative-territorial system’. [[Registration number 7395]] Please be supportive. [[10:47:14]] For 258. Included in the agenda. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the preparation and implementation of investment projects under the "one window" principle is being considered. [[Registration number 7423]] [[author of the bill - Chechtev]] Please be supportive. [[10:47:52]] For 249 Decision supported. Consideration is being given to the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Decision on the Social Problems of Persons with War Children in the preparation of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. Registration number 7370. Please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! Simonenko, the Communist faction. I would like to remind you that, starting with the entry into force of 1 January 2006, the rules of law that apply to the social protection of those who have the status of children of war do not apply to us. Therefore, the draft ruling that I have proposed with Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk and Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich foresees what the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine undertakes in preparing and introducing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Law on the State Budget for the following year, to renew articles 5 and 6 on the social protection of children, taking into account the decision of the Constitutional Court, which undertook to provide adequate funding for these articles in the 2011 budget. Once again, I would like to call everyone's attention to asking you not only to vote for inclusion now, but also to vote for the content, in fact, of the project. Because the next question is being considered and it's touching the budget of Ukraine. I mean, now vote on the Kabmin's commission to take these costs into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u28	Please, Laško, then Suškevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u29	Oleg Lazko. I think it's absolutely right for the budget to take into account expenditure on children of war, as provided for by legislation. But, Adam Ivanovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I've registered a bill, draft decree number 7430, a similar content, but concerning the social problems of the Chernobyls. I propose a draft decision to give the government an obligation to take into account the cost of the rehabilitation of the Chernobyl population, to increase pensions in accordance with the Law on Social Protection of the People affected by the Chernobyl disaster, to take these expenses into account in the budget next year. Because in today’s year or in recent years, governments have not taken fully into account the cost of treatment for black people, health care, pensions, supplements, and so forth. So I'm asking you to put the same to the vote, and I'm asking the room to support draft regulation 7430 on the social protection of Ukrainians who have suffered the Chernobyl disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u30	Wednesday it will be considered. Please, Suškevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u31	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. National Deputy Suškević, Faction “BUT – Fatherland”. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons supported the legislative initiative on the inclusion of expenditure in the state budget, the current draft state budget for children of war. But unfortunately, I have to say that adopting this decision will not resolve what is affecting the support of children of war. Until the legislative gap, which is today, is eliminated, the minimum pension by age established by the State Budget Act and the Constitutional Court has rejected this legislative definition as one that has no power. Thus today, there is no minimum pension at the age of the children of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u32	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u33	Yuri Carmazin. I support Peter Simonck's suggestion that the government should be entrusted, but after the first paragraph, where it should be entrusted with restoring the operation of articles 5 and 6, add after whom the words “and also provide for the implementation of 1 million 28 thousand decisions on behalf of Ukraine relating to the protection of the rights of persons who have the status of children of war”. The fact is that 1 million 28,000 people have had to defend their rights in court, but today these decisions of the courts cannot be executed because of the lack of funding, we need to anticipate it right here, and today, as a whole, accept what Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I think there are hundreds of letters to each of us national deputies on this subject. Just yesterday, I was looking at a similar appeal by the Menevik District Council of Veterans from Volina and so on and so forth. Let us therefore support the inclusion in the agenda of the Resolution on the Social Problems of Persons with Child War Status in the preparation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[Bill 7370 registration number]] Please vote. [[10:53:46]] For 111 By factions, please: Regional Party - 0, Parenthood - 46, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 34, Communists - 26, People's Party - did not vote, non-fractional - 5. I think, dear fellows, let's do this, when we consider the budget, we will necessarily insist and stand up for the laws to be implemented. If there were 200, you could do it again, and if there was 111, nothing would help again. Who's in charge of getting back to the vote? [[10:54:41]] For-160. We're not back. Not turned on. Yes, Your Honor, and we still need two interconnected bills to be included in the agenda of the daily Bill number 7428. The draft Law on Amendments to Part One of the First Article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the One Customs Tariff, the author of the Homutinnik Bill. [[on the exemption from taxation of the operation of the merger of maculature and energy-saving equipment in the customs territory of Ukraine]] Please support inclusion in the agenda. Yes, take the vote, please. Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u35	Oleg Lazko. Adam Ivanovich, look, you have two approaches to you, you're demonstrating. I was just speaking, and I'm talking about the draft of Decree 7430.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u36	Turn off the microphone, please. Tomorrow you will have the opportunity to express your thoughts, and we have arranged for you to do so. I'm putting 7428 bills to the vote. Please be included in the agenda, we vote. [[10:56:08]] For 258. It's on. And Bill 7429, also the author of Homutinnik, is a draft decree, a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on a metallurgical operation. Please only support inclusion in the agenda. [[10:56:42]] For 260 Considered. I am speaking to my colleague Lakota, and I say again: Tomorrow we will consider the issues of opposition, and you will be sure to prepare 7,430. We, including your draft decision to put it in the agenda, so I don't see a problem here. Work with the committee today, and we'll include it tomorrow. Yes, Your Honor, we need to look at the project, we need to consider draft decree 70-p on the procedure and features of the review and adoption of the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2011. [[author of the Baranov Bill]] Please have a short-term proposal to consider this draft regulation, please support. It's not the law. That's it. Please. [[10:57:56]] For 226 Dear colleagues, I'll explain: yesterday at the Conciliation Council, none of the factions of any faction objected to you and me adopting a bill. First. This is dictated by the fact that you and I are looking at it in conditions that we're in right now. Because by September 15, it was due to be filed, but you and I had decided to submit it only after the Tax Code had entered into force. The other one. We won't think of anything new. We are following an analogy when, at the suggestion of the then government in 2007, exactly the same decision was taken on the adoption of the 2008 budget. We've already created one, we've already created one, they say, precedent. Look again, the 2008 decree. It's also given to you and you see it, and you see it in front of you. So we've decided to consider this order by a reduced procedure. Sass insists that she should be included in the agenda. Come on, let's turn it on. I'm asking the question. Proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council Decision on the procedure and specificities of the review and adoption of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2011. Please be supportive. We'll give Sasu a word in the discussion, lady. Sass is the first in line in the discussion. [[10:59:43]] For 260 It's on. Please, Baranov, two minutes. Please, Valérie, on the rostrum. You've got two minutes. More specifically, 4, if there's a wish, because you're both from both the author and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u37	Deputies! I am introducing to your consideration the Supreme Council's decree on the procedure and specificities of the review and adoption of the draft State Budget Act for the following year. With a view to ensuring the implementation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the constitutional obligation to adopt the State Budget Act 2011 and taking into account the specificities of the 2011 budgetary process in connection with the entry into force of the new Ukrainian Tax Code and the new edition of the Ukrainian Code of Budget, the Supreme Council of the United States of America. First. Consider the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2011, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, the following procedure. Presentation by the Minister of Finance at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of the bill and its consideration at the first reading on December 14, that is, today. Second, a review adopted on the basis of the bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies on the Committees, the MPs, the drafting of proposals for the bill and their submission to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget issues no later than December 19, 2010. The proposals that will come after this date will no longer be considered by the committee. Compilation by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues, together with the authorised representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, of a bill taking into account the proposals of the National Deputies and Committees, the Deputies factions and submitting it for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the second reading of December 22, this year. And a review of the bill, as well as Bill 7450 in the second reading and adoption of it in general by December 24, this year. Please support this Order of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u38	Thank you, Valery Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. Please register two – “for”, two – “against”. Yes, please, Chechetov. After him, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u39	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, there is a comparison. Let us remember how the 2010 budget was adopted. In my view, there was no more shameful phenomenon in world democratic practice when the Government publicly refused to submit a budget to the Supreme Council. Such precedents. Maybe in totalitarian regimes it could be. But in no country in the world has there been such a precedent throughout the history of mankind that the Government, I repeat, has publicly refused to submit the main estimates of the country and in such a way as to give a blessing to all the people. Thank God that after the elections came normal people who were able to at least late, but this error was eliminated and the budget was adopted this year, although of course the correction was made and, well, it was difficult to enter into the process of implementing it. That's why we have an ideal picture today, based on last year's imagery, of the ideal technology for budget adoption. I repeat: against the backdrop of last year's glamour, we have the perfect budgeting technology. We'll hear a presentation today. We'll talk about it tonight. Let's do it on first reading. A normal mode of work is given — a few days — to be given on second reading. To make a budget. For consideration by the Committee. Two weeks later, it is believed that the budget should be adopted and budgeted as a gift to the Ukrainian people from the Ukrainian parliamentarians in time for the country to be with a new budget based on the new Tax Code on 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u40	Thank you. John Kirilenko is passing on to Sasa. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. National Deputy Sas, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you for the transcript that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is operating within the limits of order and in the manner defined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, in accordance with part two of article 19 of the Constitution. With regard to certain precedents highlighted by the chairman and the previous reporter, I would like to say that, by that time in 2007, the Rules had not yet been the law. And so there is no reason to talk about certain things about a precedent. The Anglo - Saxon system of law does not work in Ukraine. We have our own system of law, and we have no case law, as in England alone. Dear colleagues, the procedure for considering the State Budget Bill is clearly defined by two laws of Ukraine: the Budget Code, articles 39, 40, 41 of the Code and chapter 27 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The procedure in line with part two of article 57 can only be changed by the Supreme Council’s procedural decision only if the budget year does not coincide with the calendar year. Under other circumstances, when the deadlines for the introduction by the Cabinet of Ministers of the State Budget Act to the Supreme Council have been violated, it is considered within the framework of the procedure provided for in the Rules and the Budget Code. The shift occurs only at a time when the coming of the State Budget to the Supreme Council of Ukraine is shifted. Dear colleagues, if the Supreme Council continues to act.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u42	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u43	Thank you. ..that I recommend that he be accepted in general today, and not to worry about his colleagues and the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u44	Thank you. Wise was the offer. Maybe we should really vote. Jaroslav Jojik. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u45	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, recently, the entire Ukrainian society witnessed the adoption of the Tax Code in the aura regime in total disregard of the opinion of the opposition. Only tens of thousands of entrepreneurs who went out to Kiev and all the district and district centers essentially stopped this vacchanal. The President himself was forced to admit that the adopted edition of this document contained many violations of the valid Constitution. Today we are witnessing an administrative reform in our country. At the same time, both the administrative reform is accepted, and the government is discussing a new state budget. There are absolutely no elements of this administrative reform in this budget. So essentially the left hand, it feels like the left hand doesn't know what the right is doing. Obviously, on such scales, the tectonic ones that we have when we adopt the Tax Code, in the proposed editions of the Budget Code. Obviously, if in such a short period of time that it's impossible not to analyze, just to read all of these documents that I call documents, acceptance in such an abject state budget mode can lead to an economic collapse. So I propose to stop the timely functioning of the coalition and not take such an approach in adopting extremely important documents. The reference that a similar document was adopted in 2007 is not valid. Because he was gone at the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u46	Yes, that's all, thank you. This idea has already sounded more than once. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! But you can see that we are not today adopting the law as a whole. We speak in determination to accept it within two weeks. First. The other one. The second, the truth, the second. We have these two weeks of sessions with you. And this week and the next we're working in a session mode, that is, no one of us, the national MPs, is depriving us of the right to work on the budget and make these proposals. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption of the 70-P Ordinance on the procedure and features of the review and adoption of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2011. Please vote. [[11:10:49]] For 266 It's been decided. And accordingly, we're going to work on the State Budget Act for 2011.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u47	Honorable National MPs. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, present members of the government, is taking part in our meeting. Let's move on to the question. Project. [[Applause]] Thank you. Draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. This is the order for consideration of the matter. A report by the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Jaroshenko Fedor Aleksijovich, in 20 minutes, answers to questions, in 15 minutes, a report by the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs in up to 10 minutes, statements by representatives of the deputy factions and representatives of the committees and national deputies of Ukraine, in 60 minutes, that is, an hour. Let's start with the factions, and then we'll start with the MPs. Final word: 5-10 minutes. It's already up to what questions we're going to have and then we're going to make a decision. The suggestion is that we don't have to take a break at 12 o'clock, but consider the matter, considering the importance of what the MPs have just talked about. What's more, the country can't wait for us to hold the debate here, we need to adopt the budget. No objections? In general, it won't work. The Cabin denies it in general. Dear colleagues, I have the floor for the report, that is, invited to the report of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Jaroshenko Fedir Aleksijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, present! On behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I present to you today the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2011. This project takes into account the requirements of such strategic documents as: President Viktor Fedorović Janukovič's electoral programme for Ukraine, the main directions of budgetary policy for 2011, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree of 4 June this year, Ukraine's 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme. The task of developing the State Budget project on a new tax base has been carried out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The State Budget 2011 project is a product of the relaunching of the public finances system. It takes into account the medium-term development strategy. The 2011 State Budget project maintains a value-added approach that has proven to be positive in the practice of public finance management, including the stabilisation and development of the national economy based on its modernisation and transformation into an innovative economy, raising social standards, ensuring adequate social protection for Ukrainian citizens, system-wide improvement of social relations through the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme, the stability of the financial and tax system, and successful implementation of national projects. The legacy of the past government, which has made up 100 billion dollars of additional budgetary commitments, and the mistrust of international financial organizations have forced state authorities to adhere to the policies of the economy of patience, which has been applied by many governments in 2010 in particular. However, the results of the hard work of the higher leadership of the State and all authorities have provided the basis for a new State Budget strategy in 2011 from an economy of patience to sure economic development and growth. Such a strategy will allow the following year to increase the efficiency of public expenditure and create conditions for economic development and regional development. What are the preconditions for the 2011 State Budget? The economic basis for the State budget for 2011 is the results of the government's work during the March-December period and the tax and budgetary reforms that have begun: this is the stabilization of the national economy, in particular as a result of 9 months of the current year, a steady increase of 4.8 per cent of real GDP has been achieved on the annual forecast of 3.7 per cent; this is the stabilisation of the state-owned financial system, as of 01.12. The 2010 State Budget provides full funding for the social expenditure determined in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage, and the Presidential Decree on Immediate Measures to Eliminate Poverty. The real salary increases by more than 9 percent in 10 months. The social expenditure of the State Budget and the Ukrainian Pension Fund has been increased. At the same time, the debt of the Ukrainian Pension Fund to Ukraine’s State Budget has been reduced, and from unrefunded temporary loans from 28 billion dollars to 22 billion dollars for the current year as at 01.12. The results achieved were the basis for a favourable macroeconomic forecast for 2011. We look forward to a continuation of economic growth, a further increase in wages, an increase in the real income of citizens. In particular, real GDP growth rates are 4.5 percent, inflation is going to go down to 8.9 percent, the currency rate is going to stay stable within 7.95. That's what I'm talking In addition, the United Although there are some reasons for optimism, the overall situation in government finances remains very difficult. And I hate to say it, but this situation was created by those who ran Ukraine in 2008-2009. Today, opposition leaders are criticizing the government's state budget project: it's a terrible budget; it's never been in the country since independence; it's accepted without a socio-economic development programme, without the principles of monetary policy, without real macro-indicators. I have to answer that. If that were true, it was the past government that created in Ukraine's recent history a precedent for a state budget that was adopted without real macro-indicators and without any strategy at all. The real government deficit in 2009 was 170.4 billion dollars or 18.6 percent. Unreparable VAT, prepaid taxes, looted Dereserves, spent DIUs are just a small part of what affects both the economy and the state finances today. Today, we are going on strict budget spending restrictions to get back to the reasonable size of the deficit. State debt grew at a cosmic rate. From 12 percent of GDP in 2007, it increased to 33 percent, and in 2009 it made an astronomical amount of 300 billion dollars, a third of GDP. Unless you can handle this debt in one year, and it needs to be serviced and repaid. The former government created a deficit in the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Although we are taking steps today to reduce the deficit, next year we will have to spend another 17.7 billion dollars from the budget to meet the needs of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. But there is also a accumulated debt to the Pension Fund from unreturned interim loans to the Pension Fund. In the current year, we have managed to reduce by nearly six billion dollars, but 22 billion dollars remain unliquidated, and this too has to be included in the 2011 budget. Apologize now is futile. For waste of money, individual opposition officials claim that these funds were in need of social protection. Since 2004, the number of government officials has increased - think, respectable! – 44.7 thousand people. That's where the budget actually went, to keep the army of officials. President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine has already launched a major administrative reform this year that will allow the state apparatus to be optimized and reduced by almost 30 per cent, but in the following year all short-term government officials will have to pay compensation, retraining and employment costs. And all of these costs also need to be foreseen in the 2011 State Budget Project. In particular, I would like to highlight the professionalism and disadvantages of previous professionals, which led to our nation’s economy being rejected five years ago. It's very nice to see all of this on the graphs here. Economic development can only be restored if the tax burden is lifted. Thus, the State Budget 2011 project takes into account measures to reduce taxes and reduce taxes. I ask you to take this into account when considering Ukraine's 2011 budget. What are the main indicators of Ukraine’s 2011 State Budget? Given the premeditations available, the state budget’s main indicators for 2011 are defined. The revenue of Ukraine's consolidated and state budget for 2011, after its very large consultations and calculations, is estimated at 360 billion, and the government budget is 279, 81 billion dollars a month. The 2011 income component of the budget takes into account the need to reduce the tax burden on the economy I told you about, and the reallocation of GDP through the 2011 budget is 28.7 percent compared to 29.6 in the current year. In doing so, I ask you to pay particular attention – that reducing the tax burden on the economy is a significant achievement of Ukraine's leadership. By comparison, the reallocation of GDP through the consolidated budget of the Russian Federation in 2010 will be 33.4 percent and will increase to 35 percent in 2011. A number of EU member states also increase tax burden: Hungary increased VAT from 20 percent to 25 percent, Latvia increased VAT by 3 percent, Czech Republic increased VAT by 1 percent. In these circumstances, Ukraine has found ways to reduce tax pressure on the economy. A major obstacle to economic reform is the debt burden that I have already mentioned. Therefore, the priorities of the budget policy set out in the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme have been defined separately by the task of reducing fiscal deficits and government debt. The government budget deficit for 2011 will be reduced in accordance with the requirements of the economic reform programme. And this is going to be 3.1 percent of GDP or 38.6 billion dollars. The amount of government loans in 2011 is set at 91.4 billion dollars, which is 30.4 percent or 40.1 billion dollars less than the corresponding figure of the current year and 24.5 or 29.6 billion dollars less than the corresponding figure of 2009. Loans will be made to finance development programmes and repay the debts of the previous government. Thanks to the policy of reducing borrowing in 2011, the amount of government debt in terms of GDP will fall to 30 percent compared to 32.1 in the current year. The Ukrainian State Budget Act 2011 retains a mechanism to stimulate economic development, such as the provision of State guarantors. The amount of such guarantees is estimated at 15 billion dollars. I would stress that State guarantees will be excluded from the implementation of investment and innovation projects of national importance. Taking into account the state budget’s overall funding for 2011, it is estimated at $329.5 billion. The State budget in the following year is influenced by: tax revenue increases, deficit reductions, budget deficits and local budgets from the State Financial Budget in line with budgetary reform. And generally speaking, the system is that all we need to do is reduce deficits and increase the financial autonomy of local budgets. [[It's on the graph, it's very well shown to you.]] Accordingly, the State budget in 2011 is set at 329.5 billion dollars, including the general fund expenditure of 279.9 billion dollars, and the special fund expenditure of 49.6 billion dollars. The 2011 expenditure structure of the State Budget project is in line with the Ukrainian State Finance Reform Strategy. By 1.6 billion dollars, the cost of maintaining government authorities is reduced. The increase in public service expenditure was due to an increase in the cost of service and public debt. At the same time, the spending on economic activity is increasing by 7.5 billion dollars, so there is a growing resource for economic development. The cost of transfers to the Ukrainian Pension Fund is reduced by 6.5 billion dollars, which has been made possible by improving the economy of our country, as well as improving the administration of insurance payments and reducing the deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. The resource released is directed at other socially significant government programs. Thus, in the following year, health expenditure is projected to increase by 700 million dollars, and social subsidies to local budgets are increasing by 7.1 billion. The draft budget for the following year does not provide for a stable fund, a separate expenditure incurred by the trees. The fund will be transferred to the General Fund of the State Budget. Social standards policies continue in the 2011 budget. In 2011, a minimum wage and minimum wage were planned to increase by 8.9 percent. Thus, the subsistence minimum over the year will increase from 922 dollars to one thousand four dollars, by 82 bracelets. Compared to 2009, it's 260 dollars, 34 percent. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that by reducing the cost of maintaining the government apparatus and reducing the transfers of the Pension Fund, we are increasing other social costs. In particular, there is a 2.7 billion increase in public aid to socially vulnerable citizens. While we were able to reduce the deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, we were able to ensure a continuation of the policy of increasing pension payments. The minimum pension, the minimum pension payment next year will amount to 766 dollars, compared to 709 in the current year and 561 in 2009. Please note that the decrease in the transfers of the Pension Fund took place solely on account of the reduction of its deficit. At the same time, pension costs continue to rise for military workers who work underground. An increase of 2.7 billion dollars in social security costs will increase the amount of State aid in the birth of a child. The amount of aid will gradually increase during the year 2011. Thus, the first child’s assistance for the beginning of the year will be 17.9,000, at the end of the year 19.1,000. The second child’s assistance will amount to $36,000 at the beginning of the year, at the end of the year 39.2. At the beginning of the year 73.4, the third child’s aid will amount to 78.3,000 dollars at the end of the year. Child - care assistance increases, including the maximum amount of care or care provided to children, from 1 000,632 dollars to 1 thousand,740 dollars at the end of the year. Aid for first - group disabled also rises from $1,000, 125 dollars to £1,000, 200 by the end of the year. The 2011 State Budget project provides for the financing of the strategic decisions of President Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic of Ukraine in the field of education, with an increase of 1.6 billion dollars in the education of local budgets. All these expenses are taken into account, taken into account, and defined in inter-budget transfers. Expenditure on vocational and technical education is set at 3.8 billion dollars. 110 million dollars will be directed to public school information. The 2011 State Budget budget provides funding for the promotion of scholarships for students in PTU and students in all categories of higher institutions. In the area of physical culture and sports, in addition to increasing current tasks, the funding for the Euro-2012 preparations will continue. To implement the Euro - 2012 programme, it is planned to anticipate expenditure of 12.1 billion dollars. National projects are being seen as a priority for public fiscal policy in the field of economic development. Direct funding of budget programmes will be provided within the framework of the implementation of projects and the contribution of international financial institutions. Programmes that will be implemented within national projects will receive priority budgetary support at regional level.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u49	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u50	Directly as the chief budget manager of the project, 122.3 million dollars are allocated from the government budget of Ukraine. State support for the coal sector is maintained. The economic development envisions a careful attitude towards the environment, which is why in 2011 it is proposed to increase expenditure on the environment. of a conservation nature of 2.6 times. There is a threefold increase in the cost of energy saving projects. There is also an increase in spending on the development of a mineral and raw base. The budget has increased state support for the APC to stimulate the management and implementation of state-funded investment and innovation projects to support projects. Inter-budget relations. I'm very short. The budget project is strategically oriented, I've already said that. And the new rules of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which you have adopted, have been laid down as the basis for the formation of the local budget income indicators. The total resources of local budgets will increase by 18.6 billion dollars in 2011 and will be 163.5 billion. The introduction of new budgeting approaches will achieve an increase of 16.1 billion in the following year. For the first time in local budgets, the revenue of the state budget is 10.5 billion, an increase of 3 billion in the revenue generation of local budgets that are not included in the determination of inter-budgetary transfers. While fiscal reform offers significant additional opportunities to provide financial needs for the regions, the following year financial support for local budgets is increasing at the expense of the state budget. The general fund's subsidies will be 40.3, the amount of grants will be equal to 43.6 billion dollars in the current year. The main focus in budgetary relations in 2011 will be on socio-economic development in the regions. This raises the investment component of local budgets and increases the expenditure of the state budget on socio-economic development. The total resource, let me tell you, for investment development, will be 9.3 billion dollars in 20011. And it's proposed. The slide shows a new model of local budgets that I've told you about many times. As a whole, the 2011 project of the State budget of Ukraine aims to finance the implementation of the 2010-2014 economic reform programme, create the right conditions for regional development and implement the results of fiscal, tax reform. The project takes into account the position of the main programming and management documents of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Government of Ukraine. As a result of the 2011 budget implementation, conditions will be created for the next year's development strategy. Thank you for your attention! And please support the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the report is complete. Please sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance, 15 minutes for a question-and-answer. Question, please form 1 minute, answer 2 minutes. Please. Names, please. Jaroslav Jojik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u52	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Feder Alexiyovich, the strategy of your document is as follows: from the economy of patience to certain growth. But if you are familiar with the document you presented, it is not clear to whom you refer to what you call such a strategy. Because the level of wage and subsistence minimum increases is actually below the projected level of consumer price index. This will reduce the real income of most of the employees employed in 2011. At the same time, the cost of serving the President, the heads of government and the national deputies will increase. The costs of the Henprocuratorate and other forces will also increase greatly. Do you not think that after reviewing this document, it should be named after us? “Economy of patience for the people and confident growth for officials” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u53	I don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u54	Feder Alexiyovich, one minute. I'm talking to an honorary colleague, and I'm looking at a saint and I'm reading about the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Minus 12 percent. And not to engage in fornication. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u55	So Vladimir Mikhailovich told you exactly that, and don't get involved in confusion and illusion. The Minister's office is also short-lived. And according to the President's Administration, yesterday on the committee, I reported to the honourable national deputies that there are functions of state and that there are functions that the DSC is absolutely in charge of public spending, not just the President. So what I want to tell you is that this is the first slide that gives the state budget to the citizens of Ukraine? [[I've prepared for you.]] Here. Please show him. That's a promotion. I've already told you, and I want to remind you again. It's an increase in social standards, an increase in real wages, a creation of new jobs because of the economic development and the improvement in housing and utilities, the infrastructure of the population by expanding the financial security of local budgets that we've never had. This is the first budget in the history of an independent Ukraine where such a system is balanced, where local self-government authorities will be able to exercise their powers. And all of this is going to be done, not for borrowed money, but for own money, for the money that's being made in the economy of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u56	I beg your pardon, Jaroslav Jojik, he didn't mean the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Sergey Shevchuk, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u57	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. My question has something to do with the Supreme Council, so either Mr. Minister, or someone from the Supreme Council's management, please answer. Why is the state budget available for the next year to finance the sanatorium complex of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for more than 12 million dollars last year? Because the majority of deputies do not use these facilities. And one more question, Mr. Minister. Why is there an increase of 34 million dollars in funding for sanatoriums next year? And you brought that number to record -- 131 million dollars in sanatorium. This must be a crisis for the people, and for the authorities, communism has already come. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u58	There's a very short answer. If you so much want the expenses of the Supreme Council to be reduced, make suggestions. Regarding the other proposal you've been making, let's also, let's look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u59	I'll give you the answer. I, my dear fellows, do it this way. There are a number of suggestions, we send them to the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's sell them or hand them over to the state. And there will be no charges. All of it. Please. Vladimir Bondarenko? Vladimir Bondarenko, “BUT” faction – “Fatherhood”. Instead of John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u60	Thank you. Mr. Minister, last year, when the government of Yulia Timoshenko submitted a budget to the Supreme Council, it was then illegally returned to Kabmin after the first reading, where the share of local budgets in the budget was about 40 percent in the state budget. Today, I am concerned about the trend in today’s budget. Last year, i.e. in the current, current year, we had this share at the level, so about 29 percent for local budgets, and the share in the sum of 22.5. And this decrease is going. About one third of government money alone is distributed locally. And the decline goes from one year to the next. That is how you declare a normal or new attitude toward local budgets. How can this be explained today?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u61	It's very easy to explain here. I want to give you these numbers. So far, the 2011 budget has set a trend towards increasing the expenditure of the consolidated budget for the maintenance of local budgets, and it is 40.8 percent higher than in the current year. But we still have a system of administration and distribution of taxes on local taxes, state taxes and added value of gross domestic product, which is created in different regions, it has to be redistributed. From. And we have areas that are completely not enough to create gross domestic product and added value in order to self-sustain themselves. So this process of continuous improvement. Well, in this case, we're counting that the proposed 2011 budget version is pretty optimal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u62	National Deputy Vizevski, faction of "Our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u63	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". Mr. Minister, looking at the indicators, the main macroeconomic indicators, clearly come to the attention of such figures as the pay and business income fund. If, compared to last year, it went up, the wage fund went up by 18 percent, and the profit of the enterprises was 21 percent, the difference was 3 percent, then the forecast for the next year is that the salary would just go up by 15 percent, instead of the profit of the enterprises by 25 percent, and so this difference would be 10 percent. This means that the profits of the company are to be earned at the expense of underpaid wages. And if it wasn't right in social protection where you have it in the table, and there's the first level of a single tariff grid, as it was this year, and in the following year, it's 30 percent different from the minimum wage, or it's right to consult with the unions, raise the minimum wage, and thus fill in the budget and the pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u64	This question is extremely controversial. And I told you that everything we've been doing over the past few years, the payout was not about money, it was about own money, it was about borrowed money. And today, in order to balance the wages of those enterprises, there are a lot of high-level managers among you, and those managers who have carefully balanced the wage growth system and the money channeling system for investing in the development of the modern economy, these enterprises have survived. And those who have spent money on consumption are long since bankrupt, and they are already completely engaged in other activities. That's my first answer. And a second. Indeed, such a position can be considered. So let's bring it in, we'll look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u65	Kirilo Kulikov, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Feder Alexiyovich, we asked the question yesterday. There is a novelty in this budget that relates to the city of Kiev separately, that 50 percent of the taxes on individuals who formed about 70 percent of the city’s Kiev budget are now counted in the central budget. Today Kiev has a budget of about 12 billion. According to the new budget plan, it's going to be 6.9 minus 1.4 plus 1 billion to perform the functions of the capital. Thus, the capital will be virtually impossible to function, unable to perform its functions. Less than $1 billion per capital. I don't understand why the capital has become some kind of scapegoat in the adoption of this budget. Why should the capital of Ukraine pay for everything that is happening in the country today? I understand it's hard for the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. What's in the budget today, we had a really intense discussion last night, and I'm counting on it to be optimal. But the government is paying great attention to the capital. And you are witnessing that, with the arrival of the President, the new President and the new government, the new capital has come to life. Bridges, crossings, metropolises, roads, dwellings, and so forth have been rebuilt. What's in the budget is a model that's going to be further worked out. And you haven't read it yet, there are still some issues that will be further allocated funding for capital expenditure, including the capital. So don't worry. The capital is under constant control personally with the Prime Minister, I have as the Minister of Finance, all members of the government. And we will ensure the harmonious development of our capital.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u68	National Deputy Cassianuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u69	Alexander Cassianuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please pass the word to Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u70	Mikhail Chechtov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u71	Dear Fedor Aleksevich! Thank you for your honesty. You said it right, pragmatically, the budget is pretty tight, but it's realistic. He's deprived of all populism. We're full of populism. We rented it in 2009. Populism then led us to 16 per cent of the decline in GDP, to 16 per cent of the deficit. We risked a year to get the country out of the country and out of the country, three times reducing the deficit to 5 per cent and a half. The drop of 4 per cent is projected to reach 3 per cent of the deficit next year. I have another question, because the budget is based on the Tax Code, and we have rightly placed serious preferences on industries: both aviation and the zero rate for profit, and shipbuilding, and light. To raise the basic industries, to raise the country is the right thing to do. Wouldn't that pose a problem in filling the budget, do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u72	Thank you. You're absolutely right. You're absolutely right, Mikhail Vasilovich. So we really, really have this issue at stake. And it gives us great concern, both to the Prime Minister and to the ministers, and to me personally as the minister responsible for the formation of the income part of the expenditure. But we're doing everything we can to make it fall, it's always happening when new legislation is being introduced to reduce this decline. We're still counting, we've calculated a lot of options. The applicable Ukrainian Tax Code, which we already have since January 1, 2011, has no loss of income.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u73	Yuri Gnatkević, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear Fedor Alexiovich! Last time you were here last time in the hall, I was criticizing the state for destroying Ukrainian cinema. I have to say that this time we're seeing movie support, and we're going to expect that money to be really earmarked. But the bottom line is, "The development and application of the Ukrainian language" is 3 million dollars. When Vice-Prime Minister Boris Kolesnikov told us in an interview that it would take billions of dollars to develop it to support the national language. But it is. And finally, I have this question. I was recently at a meeting at a national minority assembly where they said they didn't have enough money to develop a minority culture. Six million dollars have been allocated, and I'll let them know. But they didn't care. They were concerned that this money, when it's being broken up in neighborhoods, that there's something going on in education, that cultural societies, that the national minorities are going to the last quarter, and they can't use it. Like you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u75	Got it. I'm going to say that I'm going to take your offer into account, and we're going to break it evenly to make sure that the funding goes well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u76	Sergey Pavlenko, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u77	Thank you. Please pass the word to Catherine Timothy Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u78	Katerina Vaschuk. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u79	Catherine Vaschuk, People’s Party Ladies and gentlemen, I've read about the financing of the agricultural sector of Ukraine in how long I've been here. And I don't share your optimism that the financing of the agrarian complex is so high. When you look deeper, you actually increased by the 2 billion that you took to the peasants through the system of tax return to the added value. The peasants received it as a subsidy to the price of the given milk and meat, now you have taken it into the budget, and the 2 billion you are happy that they will go to animal support. All right, if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u80	Katerina Timofievna, I heard you and I want to tell you that we didn't take anything from anyone, and we're going to make a transparent budget, and the money, really, will go for the purposes of the State Budget Act. And we'll also take your suggestions into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u81	Thank you. Feder Alexiyovich, time's up. Please have a seat. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Budgets of Baranov Valeri Alexiyovich to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u82	Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! In accordance with the requirements of the Budget Code and the Supreme Council Rules, the bill has been examined by the Budget Committee on compliance with its budgetary code and on the basis of the main directions of budgetary policy for 2011. The bill is drafted according to the rules of the new budget code and taking into account the provisions of the Tax Code. The bill takes into account most of the main directions of budgetary policy for 2011, as approved by the Supreme Council's decree of 4 June of this year. At the same time, the project contains a lot of comments, namely: the National Bank Board has not approved or submitted to the Supreme Council the basic principles of monetary policy for the following year. Generally speaking, the State’s social obligations still do not meet its real financial potential. Yes, 85 percent of the budget is focused on consumption, which is holding back the investment and innovation development of the economy. The time has come for the full inventory of the benefits, guarantees, aids and directing them to the most vulnerable population groups according to the Ukrainian President's programming documents. Decentralization of power and responsibility of resources is an important component of all reforms. However, the project preserves the practice of concentrating budgetary resources at the central level. There is a trend towards lowering the share of local budgets' income, without taking account of inter-budget transfers to GDP from 8.6 percent in 2001 to 6.5 percent for 2011. At the same time, the revenues of the local budgets are made up of half the transfers from the state budget. By comparison with 2001, unfortunately, this figure had increased by more than twofold, so local governments are targeting almost half the amount of their own income in local budgets to cover this deficit. This diversion of own income has led to a very unsatisfactory state of housing and utilities, well-being, repairing utility roads, other local programs. If in 1998 these expenditures amounted to more than 10 percent in total, this year only 3 percent of the total fund. I emphasize that these problems have been addressed by all previous governments, so the following issues need to be addressed in a balanced way in terms of the development of the regions declared in the President's Programme. First. Decision-making centres for the tasks and paths of the current development should be moved to the regional level. The other one. The state has to define a development strategy, creating conditions for the economic interest of the regions in their own development. And the third. The State must be a full partner of local authorities in the development, financing and implementation of economic and social projects. Further work on the budget bill in the Committee on Budget Issues will address these issues, including possible solutions to the most acute problems not included in it. This committee has the understanding and desire to cooperate with the Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers. Considering that by the beginning of the new fiscal year, there were about two weeks left, the consideration and adoption of the State Budget Bill was paramount in all matters. Taking into account the Government's proposals for consideration of the short-term short-term bill, the Budget Committee of December 13th decided to recommend to the Supreme Council: First. Adopt the draft law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 under 7000, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The other one. Delegating the Cabinet of Ministers. The Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the authorized representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, to draft a bill that takes into account the proposals of the National Deputies, Committees and Deputies, which will come no later than December 19 and will submit it on December 22 for consideration by the Supreme Council on second reading. Such a decision is in line with the procedural decision taken today to consider the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u83	Thank you, Valery Sergiyovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues, yes, questions. And a question, one minute, please. Valery Sergiyovich, the question is, I'm sorry. Although there were no questions asked by the committee, they appeared to the deputies, so please sign in for a question, five minutes. Yes, the names please show. Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT – "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u84	Dear colleague, distinguished reporter. Well, it seemed that the crisis had already remained somewhere this year, something would have had an economy, judging by the explanations, that the economy should be breathing. What happened was that one billion less was cut into culture and added to the prosecutor’s office? What are we building? I want to know that culture is in such a terrible state, for bookkeeping at all, for creative associations, it's been recut by a million. We have ten national creative communities that should function, they should be supported. For example, there will be a convention next year in the Society of Writers, and the coins are pitiful. How do you think we can do something and make it better, say, for the second reading? I very much hope that you will support us in this. After all, you're a cultural man who published the Berdian dictionary. Can you hold it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u85	I said in my report that we're starting a process of working together with the deputies of all factions, and almost as of today we're going to consider all of the proposals, and with the Ministry of Finance we have an agreement that we're going to agree on all the smarts and suggestions that will relate to the development and the culture that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u86	Vladimir Bondarenko, “BUT – Fatherland” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u87	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yuli's Block Timoshenko. Mr. Valeria, once again, I would like to point out that I am very concerned about the trend in the budgetary process of two. This year and the next one is predicted. If the state budget is growing in general. is reduced by 12.5 percent, and the national by 13.6, is only 8.9 percent local. As the former leader of one of Ukraine's cities, you don't care about the tendency to fold, in fact, finance at the level of local budgets by centralising funds at the state level? I've already mentioned that the share of local self-government in this budget has been steadily declining lately. They rejected the idea that you supported in your own time for a normative budget funding that would be based on the formula of each local council. Should we not go back to this method of developing local budgets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. If you've listened to my report, I've allocated most of it to this issue of decentralization of power and finance, and that's what the President is doing in his program. That's why I told you in the report that we have an understanding with the Ministry of Finance. In that regard, we will work out all the suggestions, and those you have made, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u89	Oleg Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u90	Dear Valery Alexiyovich, I think, logically, we would have had to consider the implementation of the budget in the 10th year before considering budget issues in the 11th year. And the numbers, unfortunately, are not comforting, the budget is not being implemented, the huge deficit, the mass of programs, including social ones, is not being financed. And when the government provides us with a budget that provides for an increase in expenditure, an increase in income that is not supported in any way, I think it's the committee's job to adjust these figures, and unfortunately we don't do that. And last of all, you've just reported in your report that 85 percent of the budget resource is directed at eating. How can such a budget be made for Ukraine to develop: to raise the economy, to create new jobs, to improve people's lives now that everything that comes into the budget is actually being eaten?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u91	I understand what you're saying. But I want to emphasize that I said that the situation that we have today and in the budgetary process is the result of the work of all governments that have been in Ukrainian independence for 20 years. So the period of reform we see started, not everyone likes it. These reforms affect the interests of many people and layers. We have to start and support them. I'm confident that both fiscal policy and decentralization of power and transfer of functions to finance councils are what they're going to be working on in the near future. And Ukraine will come to us as a normal state with local self-government, democracy and freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u92	And Sergey Shevchuk, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u93	I ask you to give the word to Eugene Ivanovich Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u94	Eugene Kirilchuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u95	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of Fatherland. Dear Mr. Baranov, you were obliged as chairman of the committee to count the main remarks that were made at the committee meeting yesterday. And the second. You are obliged to announce every time the number of members of the committee voted in favour and which vote in favour. But I have a question for you. You've confirmed that power is now concentrated in the hands of one person, and the finances are all concentrated in the Cabinet of Ministers, and there will be manual administration. Do you think we should fight this evil on the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u96	First, the decision of the committee yesterday was taken by a majority, as the Rules write. And what you said, I didn't say that power is in one hand, and finance is in the other. I said that there's a trend that has existed in Ukraine for 20 years before the centralization of power, and that needs to be changed. And it's not just my position, it's the President's, and, I take it, the Cabinet of Ministers. And the role of our committee is that from now on, we start to consider all the proposals that we have to make, and we will hold a dialogue with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the Prime Minister, to reconcile all the problems we have as much as possible to reconcile them. Because it's impossible to solve all the questions, because you've heard what the situation in the state, what debt they've all done together and now to someone, and not to someone, but to someone today's authorities, you have to dig it up and start from scratch. So I suggest that in our budget committee, someone walks, someone does not walk, we go there all together, and we are united there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u97	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u98	united in the work of cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question time is up, please sit down. Dearly authorized factions! I'm asking you to sign up for the show first. There's a record of the factions. Names, please. Now I'd like you to sign up for the MP Corps. Please also put your name on the board. So, dear colleagues, we're taking an hour to the show and we're starting a debate. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovich of the Faction "BUT - "The Fatherland". Sergey Sobolev will be speaking from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! Dear government officials! When you open and familiarize yourself with the 2011 budget, there is a double feeling. First of all, it feels like it's a budget project that's not written for Ukraine. Because when you see billions of fund managers, tens of billions of dollars, and you realize that there are no ministries and offices that don't exist, you start to wonder if the administrative reform that's been carried out with the budget process is affecting the budget or not? And what we're actually starting to think about when we present the draft budget. And now, essentially. If we even reject that the draft budget is prepared for existing administrative reform, if we even reject that there is actually a tax base in this draft budget that is just going to be voted on and amended, and the additions to a number of legislative acts that are not voted on in Parliament are already included in this draft budget, if we even reject that a number of tax novels can only be introduced in the 2012 draft budget, let's take a look at the fact that the government has proposed to us. It is a good thing that the minister of finance gave almost two thirds of his speech to how bad it was with the previous government. But let's go back to the figures that are given in the budget presentation that are prepared, I understand, by the Ministry of Finance, with the participation of the relevant statistical bodies and what we see. The worst year in 2009, when the country and the world were experiencing a financial and economic crisis, nominal GDP is at the Ministry of Finance, and it can't be hidden, 914 billion dollars. If we take a year when the country is said to be emerging from the crisis of 2010, we see in January-September that the implementation of nominal GDP is only 777 billion. And according to the forecast for 2010, minus 306 billion dollars, so when is the crisis? In 2009 or now? If we analyze the figures that are set for funding public administrations, except for the Supreme Council, we'll understand that these are indicators that exist again for a country that's clearly not in crisis. Because these figures for the President's administration and all the organs are much higher, and for veterans, the disabled, these are reduced. And the last. Budget deficit. How can budget deficits be calculated without three key indicators, namely NAK Naftogaz, where is Rosukre Energo and already.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u101	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u102	For a return of 12 billion cubes at a price of 141, and you have to buy the same 12 billion cubes at a price of $279 per thousand cubic meters. [[Government indicators]] Where is the recapitalisation of banks? Where's the Agrarian Foundation? And then we'll see that this budget doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u103	Thank you. Vladislav Lukyanov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next will be Paul Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u104	Dear citizens of Ukraine! You are offered a balanced, considered main financial document from Ukraine. And I would like to think of this document as a financial document, just like the State's fund for 2011. And I want to say that this document should be considered from two perspectives: first, in terms of macroeconomic indicators and the general economic situation that we're building next year, the second point of view is the internal structure of this financial document. What do we see in terms of macroeconomic indicators? We see that we're going to get a gross national product increase to a level of 1 trillion 253 billion dollars. We see that the budget deficit is kept at a small level, at 3.8 percent. If you add the Naftogazu deficit that the predecessor was talking about, it's going to be 3.5 percent. It's a very decent deficit. And given the times of financial instability in the world, it's a pattern to be proud of, not to embarrass your state and yourself without understanding the financial indicators and the financial essence of this document. This document gives us the financial stability of our monetary unit -- the bracelets. What does that mean? This means that entrepreneurs can clearly plan and plan their investment plans and projects. This means that every person can know and be sure that the purchasing power of the bracelet will not be affected, as it was done by the previous government when the rate of the bracelet fell from 5 to 11 bracelets. And as the villagers say, whose cow is running, and your cow is silent, is what you've achieved in the destruction of the economy. By comparison, during World War II, Ukraine suffered less economic losses than the management of your team. But I'll go back to the financial document. I want to say that this document ensures steady growth, it breaks the trend left by the economic downturn team, and this is the budget for the restoration and restoration of our state. Thank you for your attention! Please support this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u105	Paul Žebrovsky's faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Peter Cibenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, the least of the Ukrainian people are curious about who is worse: either the previous government or the current government. Interestingly, what do we have today, and what have we received? Each budget has its own name and I've been run over by the minister of finance, he called it "the economy of patience," so you can call this budget "the budget" the budget. Why? In fact, if you look at social costs, no doubt no government has been fully implemented today. Can we close our eyes? No, it's not. What would have to be done if we were to say that the power of sieve was more than ever. So let's reform, let's remove the disproportionate benefits that we've collected in this room and these, and these, and we've all voted for these disproportionate benefits. And we're going to give an address grant to those who need it, not to all of us, and we're not going to blow it up, and it's not going to cost 85 percent. But today, in this budget, we don't see social benefits reforming and we just don't do it on condition. If the previous governments have spoken, stopped the laws of both children of war and Chernobyl, then just on condition is financed as much as they can or want. The second question. It's the budget of the knuckles. We need to warm up the economy. What would the government have to do? Concentrate on a small resource, define two or three programs to warm up the economy. And here we could actually offer: agriculture, housing and utilities and innovation, organizing innovations in Ukraine. Are those small financial resources concentrated in order for the economy to warm up and develop growth points that would increase tax revenue, increase the economy in the state and definitely increase social standards? No, it's not. There's a local project called Euro-2012 and they give as much money as they can't even win. Only 6.5 billion are given direct to the national agency today. In addition, money is forecast today in the “Kravtodor. ” In addition, loans are foreseen. But it's a local project. And in general economic trends, no impact will this local project have. To warm up the economy, say that this project is going to have, unpredictably. Now the third question I would like to highlight is local self-government. Dear colleagues, if Minfin is the manager of more than 50 percent of the financial resources, directing it through inter-budget transfers, it is the elimination of local self-government. And what they're trying to take from Kiev is the elimination of local self-government in Kiev. I'm not talking about the elimination budget. I'm saying that unfortunately today, the authorities have taken a course on what's at the center of the single organ, the only person who's going to donate to someone and steal from someone. And actually, it's wrong. I mean, unfortunately, there is no budget law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u107	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u108	There is no philosophy that was to be predicted, i.e. growth, by which social standards and the development of local self-government, as the development of democracy in Ukraine. I propose that this Law on Budgets be sent for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u109	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u110	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, and head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council. First, a few words about the procedure for reviewing the draft State Budget of Ukraine. I understand that the ruling has been adopted, but it would be good if we could even, within the time deficit that we have, and within the framework of the adopted Supreme Council decision, still find the possibility to do something about it in the course of the formal presentation procedure of the National Budget of Ukraine and the discussion, and the decision-making in the first reading, because these two stages of the budgetary process are different not only by the procedure of consideration, not only by the content, but also by the outcome of their consideration. Turning to the State Budget project, actually, I want to say that there's a lot of questions about this document in the faction of the Ukrainian Company. We'll put them in the official order, but there are some questions I'd like to pay attention to right now. Question one. This project of the Ukrainian State Budget does not provide funds for the payment of lost savings. This is one of the most acute social problems that exist in Ukraine, and it needs to be addressed. Problem number two. The State Budget project does not provide funds for the execution of court decisions on social payments to children of war, to wartime participants, to victims of Nazi persecution. Dear colleagues, just think about the two digits I'm going to call. As of November 1, 2010, the courts have decided on the social benefits of 889 million dollars. These are decisions that have already been made. And in addition to that, there are lawsuits of total veterans of 3 billion and 691 million. To pretend that nothing's happening, well, give me your word, it's wrong. The third problem that I would like to pay attention to. Neither in the presentation of the minister of finance, in presentation, nor in the draft state budget, we have seen what social benefits will be for the statue. different categories of benefits. What do I mean? I mean, it still can't be tolerated for war children to get a 30 percent bonus every month, today they have about 6 percent, so instead of 220 dollars a month they have 49 dollars and 70 copies. And there's another problem that I'd like to pay particular attention to. By 51 million, payments were cut to various categories of war veterans by 9 May. We are, of course, grateful to the Cabinet of Ministers for doubling these payments this year, but a reduction of 51 million dollars by 9 May will mean that the different categories of participants in the war, the disabled of the war, the participants.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u111	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u112	The participants in the fighting, the participants in the war, the victims of the Nazi persecution will receive payments eight to ten times less than that provided for by legislation. So this bill has to be redesigned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u113	Thank you, too. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Oleg Lazko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u114	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues! I know that in this room there are my fellow national deputies, who have been here since 1990, i.e. counted that 20 budgets have already been received. There are those who have received fewer budgets, but at least three budgets have been received by all. Voting or not, they took part in the discussion. I think you'll agree with me that we've never been able to say that the budget is perfect. What's more, no matter what kind of government there is and who doesn't try to present the budget as a candy, it's the reality, because it's by its very nature unable to account for the reality. The budget can't be candy. And that's why, you know, how some perphomens that are now fashionable in the streets are organized by public organizations take such radical positions when some people are trying to show that it's an ideal budget, a candy bar, and others, let's say, make up epitaphs of that budget. I mean, neither the epitaphs nor the goads are inappropriate, and they're not adequate situations in the country, in the economy. The next moment. Why don't we talk about it? I think we should tell everyone who's going into epitaphs and gos is that in 2011 Ukraine has to settle for loans and there's barely a peak of this calculation. Obviously, people who are not only infected by the flu, by populism, need to understand that this money should be given away. Otherwise, it is not clear how to communicate with international financial institutions. And I think we need to be tolerant in terms of how the government assumes no matter how bad it is, but it puts this return on the money. Otherwise, we are not competitive at all in the financial market of the world. One more moment. I want to say objectively that with all the criticism of the Tax Code, including my side behind this rostrum, in this Tax Code, this 2010 budget provides for tax cuts, and it is true that no one is speaking there. There are reduced taxes and so in the government, all those who have to do this budget are going to have a very difficult task: and as in the first half of 2011, given that there will be fewer revenue, you realize that administration is not going to work right now, you can do all of the spending. So from the point of view of the faction of the People's Party, I want to say that in preparing for the second reading, we need to do everything possible, taking into account the position of all those who have spoken today, in order for this to be a harmonious budget. It can't be perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u115	Oleg Easy, non-faction. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u116	Respectful citizens, power rather than the promised improvement of life, are now continuing to feed the whole society with alternate myths. At first, we were told about economic reform. In summary, when this sweet bubble about economic reform hit, it turned out that it was an increase in retirement age, an increase in gas prices, a rise in taxes -- such as economic reforms in the exercise of power. Now we're being told about the administrative reform, they're telling us about the hardware cuts. However, the draft budget submitted by the government to the Supreme Council shows the exact opposite. The President's administration, which was reduced by 20 percent in April this year, is projected to pay up by 400 million, a total of a billion 340 million next year. The same cabinet of ministers, which was nearly halved, remains at the current level of 311 million next year. The Attorney General's Office receives an additional billion dollars. And in general, the expenditure on the GPA next year is 2 billion 200 million. I understand that this authority is counted with the prosecution for the criminal persecution of political opponents. There's hardly any citizen in the country who believes that adding a billion to the Henprocuratorate will improve the protection of their rights by prosecutors. The authorities have money for a sanatorium complex of officials. There's money in power, another 300 million for the acquisition of a new plane, and we don't know who, perhaps for the Prime Minister, maybe for one of his deputies. There's money in power, 200 million to fly officials. There's money in the government for the Prime Minister and his roll as a minimum of 10 cars to work and from work on the house to drive him every day, or even several times a day. And there's no more money in power. Not for the payment of deposits, not for the payment to children of war, not for the payment of payments to those who have been provided for by law, not for other categories of citizens. The Minister of Finance will report on how they will improve people’s lives. So citizens need to know that the following year the government plans to raise by as much as 50 dollars the minimum pension and 60 dollars the minimum wage. Such an improvement in life for millions of citizens! For yourself, billions are extra, for people is a penny. For people, the crisis, for people, you see, the global crisis, the budget deficit. There's no budget deficit, there's no crisis, there's nothing. I don't think we can vote for this budget. Because this budget does not perform the main function that it should perform, to contribute to economic growth in the country. It's a budget, what do you call it? Yesterday, my colleague, Zebrovsky, questioned what was the main trend in the budget? That's the food budget and the break-up budget! But not a budget for the people! I'm not voting for him, and I'm calling on everyone else not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u117	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next performance by Olga Bodnar, Bondar. No, Alexander Bondar, I'm sorry. It's you, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! I've been preparing to perform in a slightly different direction, but I can't help but answer and not respond to the performance of our regular callers. You may not have heard the words of Zebrovsky, who urged us to understand that we are a separate branch of government and to unite in the consideration of laws that are vital to Ukraine. But how much can you copy? Who's to blame? I want to remind you, colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky spoke about the third and fourth vocation of the people’s deputies. You remember! We budgeted the car. One political force is driving the economy into disarray. It is 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005. Janukovič's government is plus 13 percent GDP growth. Since 2005, five years of stagnation — 375.6 billion dollars in loans. And they're going to have to be given to someone. And one more thing. You're here trying to criticize us, you think about what we're doing. And we've criticized you for how many years, the "kaalization" and the "unique team," for your inaction. We asked the only thing -- to admit that state-guaranteed social standards are too low. You refused. We couldn't take part in the discussion of the anti-crisis program, but we weren't here. We didn't criticize your budget. And you didn't even know how to bring it in. Let's figure out in the end that we're a branch of power. We're an independent branch of government. And we need to unite if there are good suggestions. Please have a specific offer. Dear Feder Alexiyovich! The recovery of economic growth, the increase in investment attractiveness, especially in our industrial regions, is closely dependent on infrastructure development, you said: roads, airports, bridge crossings. Bridges in Zaporozhye. Over the years, the weight of the construction city of Zaporozhye has consolidated 16 billion dollars into the budgets of all levels at the initial cost of the property transition of 2 billion. Today, 200 million Zaporozhi will not be able to set up. And one more thing. As far as housing is concerned, it is for military personnel. In the town of Zaporozhye, the sixth year is no apartment, no square meter. We suggested that in Zaporozhye, there are broken construction sites, former military towns, an investor willing to build his own property, just having to hand over this construction site, he would build a residence for military personnel. Instead, the chief of the garrison of Zamotajev's apartment received and is now important, there, in the ministry in the great superiors instead of making arrangements for the military to rent a residence. The thing is, even these 530 million or 540 million dollars spent on housing for military personnel are not the kind of money we need. Colleagues! Let us unite in search of ways to fill the income part.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u119	Alexander Bondar, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. Eugene Marmazov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u120	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In my time, I'll only touch on three questions that I think are very principled. First. The reality of the macro-indicators that are set out in this budget. In my mind, the Mineconomy didn't participate at all in the formation of this budget, because if we actually have worse indicators in 2010 than projected, how can we predict an increase in the billions of budget rates next year. This applies to both GDP and budget revenues and inflation rates. Of course, they will not be executed, and they are unrealistic. Another aspect. How can we talk about a reduction in tax pressure provided for in the Tax Code adopted by the Supreme Council if there is an increase in tax revenues this year, and in order. So something doesn't happen in the Cabinet of Ministers. Now the income from privatization. Well, traditionally in recent years, they've been set at 10 billion dollars, but somehow the authorities have forgotten that on December 28 there's a sale contest for Urctelek, the starting price of which is 10.5 billion dollars. All the money will come in next year. That is to say, or they will not sell with the Crucifixion, or nothing will be sold in the following year. So that's a strange position. I understand that they wanted to reduce the budget deficit to satisfy the IMF, but this could be done by reducing borrowings both internally and externally, and still by placing real costs on privatization, taking into account the President's latest decree, which allowed for the sale of all strategic enterprises. And the last. The MPs are about to vote in favour of this budget in the first reading, but it covers the deficit of the Pension Fund from a budget of 9 billion dollars and says, "This will be based on pension reform in the first stage." Someone has seen this pension reform, and it has already been voted on by the deputies to cut the pension fund's spending by 9 billion dollars? No, it's not. That's why I have a specific offer. Finally, the government has to take the money out of the Ukrainian budget, put it into the Pension Fund budget, and let the privatisation costs cover the pension deficit. Then the government will have the advantage of selling objects and not selling them cheaply because it will cause dissatisfaction with pensioners. This is going to be the best option for filling out the pension deficit, not the innovations the government is offering to cover this deficit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u121	Eugene Marmazov, Communist faction. Next is Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u122	Well, as head of the Supreme Council's Privatization Monitoring Commission, I will also focus on this particular issue. The proposed budget for the following year has traditionally provided that the proceeds of privatization of public property should amount to 10 billion grivens. At the same time, it's us 10 billion grevens we've been killing for the third year in a row. Where that number comes from, no one can explain it. The Government had forgotten the statutory rule that, together with the State budget for the year in question, a State privatization programme had been introduced. That'll make sense. Such a programme should be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine not later than one month before the adoption of the State budget. What and how are we going to privatize if the latest privatization programme or strategy was adopted in 2000? It has already become a tradition when enterprises that are strategically important to the economy and security of the State are privatized to success, regardless of the reality of today. And in the end, it's not that profit is a loss. Whatever the object is sold, the trial is under way. Another figure in the proposed Gosbudget project raises questions, namely, the rental of public property. There are 655 million bracelets at stake. It's a mess. Who today can say how much the State can actually get by renting its property? Of course, if you approach a lease on the principle of “delivered and forgotten”, it is assumed that this specified budget amount will not go to the Treasury. Examples of State uncontrolledness over its assets in our commission are sufficient. Well, that's enough to remember Alexander's. They put it in privatization, destroyed it. No one's answered for it, now it's worth it. Dead city, almost. Or that's the question. And who will compensate the State for the loss of nearly 70 million dollars of unreachable property from the lease of the Volnogorski Mining and Irshan Mining Combined? The lease expired on 5 September last year, while the renter uses public property free of charge to date. I therefore propose that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine urgently submit to the Supreme Council draft relevant legislation to resolve the privatization process brought it into line with the realities of today. Except for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u123	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u124	The second reading of the list to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the facilities planned for privatization in 2011, based on the need to privatize each facility, could then be described as realistic as both the budget and the amount of the proceeds of privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u125	Ostap Semerak, “BUT – Fatherland” faction, followed by Sergey Shevchuk, is handed over to him by colleagues Korge and Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u126	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, we have listened carefully to the report of the Minister of Finance, which presented to us and the whole country of the 2011 budget project. And the minister's report made it clear that the government is going to the limit. But the minister did not answer for whose account the government's priorities for Ukrainian society will be reduced. Sadly, the answer is clear. The chosen ones are luxury and state funds, and all other citizens, tax payers, poverty and extortion. Let me give you a few examples to make us realize what is being proposed to our Parliament to accept. The D.A. raises costs over 70 percent next year. Feofania increases the costs of over 45 per cent, the medical services of senior officials – plus 15 per cent. In general, government administration increases its expenditure by more than 27 percent. I should tell you that the current president of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, spoke of the fact that improvements in life have already entered Ukraine's history today, as the first president of Ukraine, who spends more than one billion dollars in maintenance. What do we have to do with education? Unfortunately, the government is proposing to reduce them by 10 percent this year. At the time, he was in charge. The management and administration of the Ministry of Education is increasing expenditure by 21 percent. Physical culture and sports in the preparation of student and student youth are falling by seven percent. Let us take another Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports. Compared with government expenditure in 2009 and now, this is a 30 - percent drop. Compared to the current year, it is a decline of almost five percent. Unfortunately, the government does not address in this budget the urgent needs for young people, such as housing, as the first job. In general, children’s organizations are not financed. If we're talking about culture, the same story: lowering the cost of Ukrainian language development by more than 8 million, or minus 75 percent. The same applies to gifted children, 50 percent reduction, creative associations -- minus 900 million, the Ukrainian Book -- minus 13 million. The minister says that enough money will be spent on the euro, and he called it 12.1 billion dollars. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, when you digitize and add those amounts that you have planned through the Minregionbud, more than 13 billion people are involved in road services and national agencies. It feels like you don't understand how much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u127	Please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u128	So in summary, I would ask all of us to send this bill for further work and ask the government to take into account the priorities required by Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u129	Sergey Shevchuk, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”, six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u130	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! As you know, the Ukrainian President’s Administration has announced a course for health reform. This information is available on the President's official website. Therefore, the question of financing the health sector for the 11th year is of double interest both in terms of the real need for the sector and in terms of the allocation of resources for such a reform. The additional costs of the Ministry of Health for the following year are, indeed, but not for the Ministry of Health. It's almost unbelievable, but it's a fact: the biggest increase in funding is not about highly specialized medical care, it's about the sanatorium sector. Not for all, but for the chosen ones. First of all, the financial support of the Supreme Council’s Sancomplex has increased by 19 percent. Even if you assume that every national MP will take a trip that is far from right, it will only take 2.5 million dollars, and where 73 million dollars are sent to Parliament's resorts is a mystery to everyone. The following year, these appetites increased by 12 million dollars. You know what? As a result, the Red Cross of Ukraine has been reduced by 7.5 million. And cut costs for prosthetics, for new types of prosthetics. But, good people, is there a conscience here at least in this room? We're saving up on the prosthetics of the human race to get the MPs to go and get some rest in our seats. Another positive. Sanatoriums are not only in Parliament but also in the DUS. The financial support of state-run sanatoriums after the new year will increase by 34 million dollars and reach 131 million. On average, it's a million for every VIP person in the Presidential and PNP administration. And what makes you think this resorting generosity is for the people in the President's neighborhood? At the expense of the children. Because it is 32 million dollars that the financing of the Artek and Young Guard Children's Health Camps has been reduced. And considering that the following year 8 million have been reduced by the financing of extra - school schools, where children are being cured and rested, there is still a reserve for the new authority’s holiday. President Janukovic at the Humanitarian Council stated that Ukrainian children and young people use the most alcohol and tobacco in the world. That's really true. But the President didn't tell the government officials who are sitting here that it's bad. And government officials took and cut social advertising costs for the following year against harmful habits by exactly 50 percent. With regard to public concern for the health of the common people. And it's also not that simple, because the doctor in Upper actually gets 108 million dollars next year, and she's serving the governing body of the government. Maybe one of the deputies will call another clinic in your district that has an annual budget of 108 million dollars? The well - known Feofania stationer, although serving the same contingent, needs more and will receive more in the following year, 200 million dollars. European clinics can be jealous of this amount, they spend money on medical technology, Feofania spends money on a lawn mower in one million dollars. Do you know how much they spend on improving the qualifications of doctors in DUS medical facilities? You may smile because this sum is as high as 167 thousand dollars. That is, it takes five years for the development of new medical technologies to be equivalent to the cost of a purchased lawn mower, and another 10 million will cost the state an examination of those elite institutions. What are some of the structures that will improve? There are, I'm not going to say that everything is wrong. Militia and internal troops, medical supplies will increase by 40 million dollars. Armed Forces at 191 million. U.S. Security Service for 57 million dollars. The Attorney General's Office is already told that three weeks from now, funding such as volcano funds will go up to one billion more, just two billion 200 million. I can't tell you how many of them are going to be cured, because that's the big secret of the State Budget. Who didn't deserve it? No ordinary people deserved it, no water transport workers, no oil industry, no rail transport, no air transport, there's a steady decline. As for the MOH, funding is only going to increase by 4.5 percent, that's less than inflation. The Academy of Medical Sciences seems to increase funding, but given that half a billion dollars goes to construction and projects, which goes to builders, contractors, not medics, the funding will go down by 1.1 percent. And the conclusion. Unfortunately, MOH Ukraine has failed to convince the government's financial and economic bloc of the need to allocate at least the necessary levels of financing for the sector, regardless of the medical reform announced by the President's Administration. The figures in the 2011 budget project seem to be a mockery of the ILO. The cost of health management and management is reduced by 25 percent, including the salary of specialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u131	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u132	It's a shame the M.O.O.S. experts, they've always been held by the Ministry under any direction. The management is no longer monitoring the level of wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u133	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev, please transfer the right to speak to Andrija Pavlovski, “BUT – Fatherland”. Uljana Mistpane will be next. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u134	Respectable compatriots! Andrew Pavlovski, “BUT – Fatherland”. In his statement, the Minister of Finance stated that the draft budget was based, including on the electoral promises, still a candidate for President Viktor Yanukovic. Here I am holding the pre-election program of Viktor Yanukovitch with the seal of the CBC. So I would like to point out that in this program you will not find any social commitment by the President. In particular, where money is needed to double the child’s birth allowance as of January 1, 2011. You can't find the money for each family to raise and support children from 3 to 13 years of age to 250 dollars, from 13 to 18 years to 500 dollars. There is no money and no action promised by Yanukovich aimed at the price stability of the anti-crisis food basket and the availability of medical services for everyone. And I would like to draw attention to the very famous promise of Viktor Yanukovic to make a pension of 1,000, 200 dollars on 1 January 2011, a minimum pension of 1,000, 200 dollars. However, the government in the draft budget for December 1st of the following year, at the end of the year, is only making a pension of 800 dollars. So compare 1 thousand 200 and 800. In order to restore justice, as well as to implement Victor Yanukovic's pre-election promises, the opposition faction of BUT-Fatherhood registered Bill 7458, which established a minimum pension of 1 thousand 200 as of 1 January 2011, and a minimum wage of 1 thousand 506. We demand that the draft law be adopted immediately before the budget is considered, because we need to keep our promises. I want to point out that the social standards in the draft budget are artificially and fundamentally underestimated. As a result, every citizen will not get a proper pension, there will be frozen wages, and there will be a lack of payment in the full amount of social assistance. And so this allows us to call this budget -- the poverty budget and the budget for the deterioration of the lives of all kinds of people, except oligarchs, the deterioration of life today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u135	Yes, Uljana Mistpan, Olga Bodnar faction of BUT-Batychina. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u136	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, House of the Yulia Timoshenko Party of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues! I represent the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. So in terms of this, I want to say what I saw in this budget. If I said one phrase, I'd say, "The village is going to die, the city is going to die." That's very mildly said. Never before has there been a funding distribution of 70 percent in 2000 for the state budget and 30 percent has been returned to us, 10 years have passed, and we are back not only in the Constitution but also in life. I've already heard from the reporter that he said that "the kyans, you're already "sucked up," they're building bridges here, they're building you a subway here, and there's not much left for you." But what I want to say is that there is article 65 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which provides that 100 percent of the total income tax of individuals paying in these cities should be included in the revenues of Kiev and Sevastopol. Instead, this budget cuts the ability of the Chinese to represent our city as the capital of Ukraine, providing only 50 percent without giving anything in return. In 2011, subsidies from the State budget were projected to be reduced to local budgets for the provision of benefits and housing subsidies to the population for the purchase of solid and liquid fossil fuels and spent gas. What does that mean? That means you get a payment that you can't pay, and besides, you won't get the subsidy and you'll become all friendly bombs. Because without paying the utility fees, you will be forced to leave your homes not only in the cities but also in the villages. Contrary to the planned housing reform, the cost of reform and development of the rural community was reduced from 8 million 600,000 in 2010 to 7 million 761 thousand dollars in 2011, that's exactly what I was just talking about. The 2011 budget does not provide for an increase in the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care. There is no money that follows the "money goes to the child" principle. And it's predicted that all of this funding is increasing by 1.8 percent when inflation is set at 9.1 percent. This means that nothing will happen to our poor orphans, and even soon they will be gone, because they will starve to death. In line with article 22 of the State Budget Project, local authorities are obliged to direct the revenues of local budgets that are not included in the determination of the amount of inter-budgetary transfers to the implementation of the National Programme on Housing Reform and Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u137	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u138	Thank you. What does that mean again? In the local budgets, the money is taken away, the program will not be executed, because that money is not enough. Instead, local budgets are not enough to pay teachers, doctors, kindergarten teachers, library staff, and so forth. That's how I say it's not a budget, and it's a budget that needs to be voted for: the village dies, and the city dies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u139	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u140	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! During the past plenary week, the Supreme Council of Ukraine took a crucial step towards the systematic reform of the State when, on the basis of comments and suggestions by the President, it adopted the new Tax Code. The adoption of this instrument was the result of a compromise between business and State interests. The essence of this compromise is to understand that business problems should be addressed in the context of addressing the problems of the country as a whole. The adoption of the Tax Code provided an opportunity for the introduction to Parliament of the draft State budget for Ukraine for 2011. The Supreme Council needs to adopt this document for the next two plenary weeks. It not only consolidates the positive economic trends achieved, but also creates prospects for the country's economic growth in the coming year. Moreover, we must lay the foundation in the draft budget for the growth of the income of our citizens. The current power would not allow a repetition of last year's failure by the Government of Timoshenko, which led to the country's beginning of 2010 without the State budget. As a result, in January-February, the Prime Minister spent government money on his own discretion, destabilizing the public finances system, and the Government of Nikolai Azarov took a lot of effort and time to put order in public finances. The macro-indicators set out in the draft State budget are realistic. The current year will end with inflation of not more than 12 per cent. The maximum inflation rate in the 2011 State Budget project is less than 9 per cent. As a result of November, inflation in the country was 0.3 per cent, which has been the historical minimum since 2000. The 2011 budget is based on the provisions of the new Tax Code. The new tax legislation reduces the fiscal burden on business, which will increase GDP and increase income in the budget. The State will receive more income, which will be distributed in the best way possible. The authorities have found real sources of significant growth in the income of the budget. They are projected to grow by 10 per cent. This will enable further increases in social payments to needy social groups. Since 1 January 2011, for example, more than one and a half times the birth aid, and almost 20 per cent of the subsidies to grant benefits and housing subsidies to the population have been increased. In principle, it is important to accept the 2011 budget as a development budget, not a meal. It will retain all the articles on which the financing depends on the stable functioning and development of the State. The capital expenditure of the State is proposed to be increased by 2.3 times. A number of projects are planned in preparation for the Euro-2012 Championship. Investment projects will begin. The faction of the Party of the Regions invites the People's Deputies to adopt the bill on first reading and, after finalizing the second reading, to adopt it at the end of the next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u141	Yes. Sergey Gordijenko has the right to perform, six minutes, and colleague Wolintz also gives him his time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u142	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Members of the Government, Honorable Fellows! Using the fact that we're looking at the 2011 State Budget project, and the government members are here, I'd like to consult you together on how to solve an extremely acute state-wide problem that grows every day. And to show that it doesn't exist, it's just not possible anymore. This is, first of all, who doesn't like it, but it's a problem with the implementation of the law on the status of children of war. Today, again, I draw attention to the fact that this law has been passed by the State but that it has not been fully implemented by the State for a year. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Today, after the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, all children of war went to the courts to defend their rights. Today, the courts are paralyzed and unable to work because they have been killed by these appeals. They can neither organize nor technically nor personnelly accept such a number of appeals. It's where the rights of this category are being plundered. There they are bullied, just as the authorities are harassed when they do not realize the situation of this law. I want to say that if we solve this problem, that if, today, the decisions of the courts and the unchallenged payments, when the state is nowhere to go, 879 million have been recorded. Another 3.7 billion are in court, and no doubt positive decisions will be made. Social discontent is on the rise. You realize that this is 4.7 million people. It's an enormously powerful army of people. This is the childhood of these people who are plagued by war, and today it is overthrown by power because the authorities have passed the law. She made a commitment, but she did not. What Should Children Do?Oh, my God! What should this category do?Oh, my God! If the state does not comply with the law, citizens of Ukraine should not comply with the laws. Street traffic rules and other laws of Ukraine should not be enforced. Of course not. They have to. But why is it that the state does not, and the citizens must do so? The situation is absolutely identical to that of the Chernobyls. When there are decisions made by judges on large payments. They are now in charge of work and social protection, but unfortunately there is nothing to pay for, and they are not. And we all need to think together about how to fill the budget itself, where the sources are, and how to fulfill the commitments we have made. I'd like to bring the government back to the point where, on behalf of the Poltavcans and on behalf of those areas that are today, where they come from very useful fossils, to the problem that you know is this section of Pay for Nadra. The Tax Code provides for reduced coefficients for these areas. [[I would like to re-emphasize for the shorthand, please.]] But surely when the current budget was being prepared, these reduced coefficients were not counted, and today the total loss of the budget of the Poltava region is only 50 million. There's 200, but it doesn't count, but more than 150 doesn't work, and that's an extremely substantial sum for the Polts. So I'm paying attention to the government and the committee to look at this position. If this is a mistake, correct it, because the amount is too serious and cannot be resolved within the Poltava region. I also draw attention to the need for a serious increase in the lending position of individual rural builders under code 2751430. There are 60 million, but there is a need for 120 million, including 60 at the expense of the General Fund and 60 at the expense of a special fund that would correspond to the amount approved for 2011 by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order of 19.09.2007 at the number 1158 in the State Programme, the targeted development programme of the Ukrainian village for 2015. Problems are very serious. And I would ask them to be very responsible for their solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u143	Vladimir Karpuk passes on the right to speak to Stanislav Arzhewithin. The faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u144	Dear, distinguished national MPs! Of course, I'm not going to give any political evaluations. And the budget is the numbers. So I'd like to speak some numbers. For example, key such as GDP growth – 4.5 percent, inflation rate – 9 percent, budget deficit. I think these are the key numbers that can answer how real this budget is. And for me, if we're talking about a 4.5 percent increase in GDP, I think it's an unrealistic figure. Because our country is referred to as the countries most affected by the crisis. That's the first one. It's different. If we take the figure, 11 months this year, the GDP is 777 billion. Please tell me, can we give you a billion 300 next year? So you're actually doubling this? I don't think it's real. As far as inflation is concerned. Well, I don't think our Ukrainians can believe, including us, that in stores consumer prices don't go up in the last year or two years. Last year, 9.5. Next year, this year is 9.5. For the next year, 9.0. Well, Ukrainians won't believe that the consumer price index is falling. Well, I think it's an open figure that says quite different. In terms of budget deficits, 3 percent of this large, 1 trillion there is 300 billion, totaling 40 billion. If you add another loan to this amount, you're going to have 92 billion. If you add another guarantee that the government should issue, 15 billion is 150 billion loans that are not yet answered. And if we have a total budget of 360 billion there, that's half of the budget that we have to invent. This year, 131 billion people are involved in this way. Of these, 115 billion were recovered from the banking system into the budget deficit. This indicates that the country’s economy has not been credited. Do you understand what kind of feedback we're building? So I think these numbers also show that the budget needs to be worked out. I would just advise you to read a national report from the National Academy of Sciences. Where they said, well, in our country, less than 17 percent of the basic level of inflation, or consumer price index, can't be taken. Today they said: Taxes are not increasing. In the budget plus 32 billion entrepreneurs have to pay taxes. Of these: a stabilising fund, through which we added, more or less, funds to fix the situation -- a large deficit, almost 50 percent, for the next year. These are basic figures that show that the budget needs to be seriously worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u145	Dear National Deputies! Let's finish the discussion. The Minister of Finance's closing statement. Jaroshenko Fedir Alexiyovich, please. You have the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u146	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We're very much with you today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u147	And invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u148	The draft State Budget Act was discussed positively. So I am very grateful for all the suggestions you have made. But I wanted to remind you of some numbers because there were comments, and the numbers were inconsistent. As far as GDP is concerned. Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich spoke, he reported that where we have GDP. So what I'm saying is that the figures he was saying for the actual nominal GDP, yes, indeed, 777 billion. But when you put the numbers together in 2009, it's 653 billion. Today, the real rate of growth is 15.3 percent. So the economy is working, and there's a regular nominal GDP going. And we expect the numbers not only to be done, but also to be overworked. With regard to locomotives and motors. In fact, in the materials you have, there are all these numbers. I just want to give you one digit that the engines of the real economy sector are exactly the kind of budget support that all sectors of the economy have today. The figure is 120 billion dollars -- it's only direct support through loans, through direct support systems, through special taxation regimes, 120 billion. Now, with regard to the tax reduction. Business opening and closing systems, or deregulation systems, will be reduced. All of this creates all the groundwork to make our economy, not an economy of patience, but an economy of development. So all the suggestions you're going to make, we're all going to work them out, and we're going to prepare for the second reading report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u149	It's all right, isn't Mikola Tomenko, please. Feder Vasilovich, are you all right? Ladies and gentlemen, we are finalizing our consideration of the matter. The report and discussion, the speeches of the national MPs, have confirmed that the budget is uncomplicated, even to say it is extremely complex. However, like all previous budgets. And obviously, we need to demonstrate, not the fight against windmills, but the realistic approach to developing the necessary budget project in order to establish a good foundation for Ukraine's next development period. Clearly, we must be patient, the MPs have spoken about it, but we must endure all together. And that's why we're going to have a review of the Pension Law Amendment Act, where we're going to be dealing with retirement. The Law will be considered today at 16 o’clock to amend the Code of Budgets, other laws where the language goes, too, in order to bring everything into line. Please, let us, in principle, consider these questions and make appropriate decisions. And I would ask the committee and other committees, along with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to take a closer look at the drafting of the bill for the second reading, to look at the first needs, first of all, education, culture, health care, as discussed here, as well as the children of war, veterans and Chernobylers. To make it clear what will be done this year and what the State guarantees for the next year 2012. I also ask the committee, together with the representatives of the government, to remove from the draft State Budget Act all that is contrary to the Code of Budget and the Constitution of Ukraine, once again, all that is contrary to the Code of Budget and the Constitution of Ukraine, to look at Kiev separately, as spoke of by the people's deputies. And I would ask, fellow honourable colleagues, that we demonstrate our common will to improve the budget rather than try to make it critique and collapse. I understand that we need constructiveism, and I understand that the fight is not about the budget, but about the struggle for power and the struggle against power. It's a normal political process, but let's all agree that we need to find reasonable positions, based on what the income, the cost, the level of budget deficit and inflation is clear. With regard to Peter Stepanovich Cibenka’s suggestions that a presentation should be first developed and then considered in the first reading. Dear colleagues, we've studied this issue, but then we narrow down the field, the opportunity for MPs to make proposals. So we have an increased opportunity to make proposals. With this in mind, honourable colleagues, i.e. in the light of the discussion and in accordance with the decision of the PSC, put to the vote a proposal for the adoption of a draft Supreme Council Decision on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011 for the adoption of a draft regulation as a regulation. [[Number 7000-p]] Please vote. [[13:14:39]] For 275 Decision taken. I thank you, dear fellows, for the principle of a responsible position. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 176, “BUT – Fatherland” – 1, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 19, Communists – 26, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 33. I'd like to ask people's deputies, factions, committees to make their proposals and organize a job. I thank both the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the members of the government for participating in this consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Let's see. Let's go. The break will be at 2 p.m. Let's move on to the second reading section. It's a matter of drafting the Culture Act. [[Registration number 6469]] Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, this long-suffering bill on culture, which, in fact, at the age of 20, we came to accept it. I'd like to say to you that the biography of this bill is really very difficult. I'll remind you that at the time it happened that a decision was made in some kind of emotional excitement and he was looking at a reduced procedure. Such a bill, of course, is simply not possible to consider a simplified procedure. We all had to read it well, discuss it, make some suggestions, and then it was not as raw as it is to this day. Because the Committee on Culture and Spirituality offers you two versions, one is that you can accept it, of course, today, but you literally need to patch it up, clean it up, and so forth from tomorrow. There's a second option, send this bill back to read again. And then there would be an opportunity, let's say, to work with the Ministry of Culture, and we would have a bill for a much more quality, Because of this, Adam Ivanovich, my suggestions I have made, they are, once again I say. The law, indeed, needs a lot of clarification, just so it would be inappropriate to issue it, but the last word for the Supreme Council and we, the committee, will speak to the majority who will make the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u152	Yeah, we'll work on the repairs. Yes, first, Carmazin, accounted for. Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u153	There, indeed, Adam Ivanovich, is a very serious observation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u154	So the offer for the second one again?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u155	Yeah, the second one again, give it time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u156	All right, I'll make this offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u157	I think that's smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u158	Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u159	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear people's deputies, well, some of my amendments are taken into account, some are out of the question, but that's not what this is about. Now Vladimir Yavorowski has offered the right thing, based on the observation we have from the General Legal Office. Please take a look at these fundamental serious comments on the four pages, and the point is to follow through. In view of these observations, which are impossible to comply with the requirements of article 116, part one, of the Rules, requires substantial conceptual refinement. That's what law enforcement says. I, for example, Mr. Vladimir, will insist on my amendments that your committee has ruled out in some way. I think you've done it wrong. And so let's not waste time, this bill doesn't get most of it now. You have to vote for the second reading again, especially since you've proposed it as the chairman of the committee. This is the right decision to take into account the decision of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u160	I, Adam Ivanovich, just wanted to remind the people that we are literally already. This bill has, in fact, been in order for the day, and the judiciary has been holding us back for a very long time. And we got that conclusion, well, literally just recently. And there is, indeed, a great many valid comments, there before that, Mr. Yuri, what is there. do not comply with the Constitution. Even things like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u161	Well, it's a committee that's been preparing. Dear colleagues, I will now put this proposal to the vote. The only thing I'd like to say is, if I understand, it's a new law. Right? It's the Culture Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u162	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u163	So here's the 116th article, that's the thing: if we're writing a new law, there's nothing to compare. It works 116 or it doesn't work, then we have to rely on 116 when we only make one or two changes. And if the law is complete, here, sorry, 116 doesn't have the right to act, because otherwise we limit ourselves if we write a new law. I've read it, too, but I'm clarifying. If it's a new law, it doesn't have anything to do with 116. And this is the new law. Yes, dear fellows! Now, now. We're going to vote first on the proposal for a profile committee that suggests that we move it back to second reading. I'd like to make a statement. We'll continue to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u164	Please support, vote. Indeed, we will work on it and introduce a quality law. [[13:21:52]] For-75
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u165	Yes, the proposal to send it back to the second is not supported, 75 votes only. So we're going after the repairs. They insist on voting in favour of Karmazin's 1st amendment, it's counted. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u166	It is counted, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u167	It is counted, but they have the right to insist. [[13:22:21]] Z-11. The amendment is not counted. 2 of Yavorovsky’s amendment, counted. No comment. Kirilchuk, 3rd Amendment. I'm voting on the 3rd amendment to support it. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:22:51]] For-23 Not supported. It's left in the first line. The 4th Amendment of Jaborovsky is included. 5th, Karpuk, accounted for. 6th, Yavorowski. Seven. Eight. 9th. 10th, Silent. 11th, Yavorowski. The 12th. 10th? 10th Silence. Please put to the vote 10 amendments. [[13:23:41]] For-23 Not supported, so it stays in the first reading. 11th, accounted for. 12th, 13th, Yavorowski. 14th, Kirilchuk, rejected. 14th, Kirilchuca's rejected amendment, yes. 15th, Yavorowski, accounted for. 16th, Strange, counted. 17th, counted, 18th, 19th, Yavorowski counted. 20th, Yavorowski, 21st, Samoylik, 22nd, Yavorowski, 23rd, Yavorowski. Fourth, Yavorowski, 25th, Konovaluk, 26th. 26 Amendment, Silence is proposed for support. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:24:44]] For-32 The amendment is not supported, it remains in the first read edit. 27 Amendment, Yavorowski, taken into account. Stand by for backup, please identify yourself. [[13:25:09]] For-29 Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u168	Why not vote, recognition of culture as a major factor in the self - expression of the Ukrainian nation, of all indigenous peoples, and of national minorities. All captured, everyone is, why Michael Chechetov, why don't you raise your hand?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u169	28th, Kirilenko, accounted for. Please have the 28th vote on support. [[13:26:00]] For-34 Not supported. The 29th is in favor of support. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:26:27]] For-31 Not supported. 30th. Yavorowski. 31st. Silence is supported. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:26:49]] For-44 Generally speaking, fellow believers, we are already looking for terms that are hard to understand. The Ukrainian nation, the indigenous peoples, and the national minorities. What difference does it make between the nation and the indigenous nation? I understand what you're going to say. There is the people of Ukraine or the Ukrainian people that are enshrined in the Constitution. Be healthy! 32nd. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a paragraph in the sixth part of the first article of this article. Point six. “Creating the conditions for creative development of the individual”, the coma, “encouragement of the cultural level, aesthetic education of citizens, meeting the cultural needs of the Ukrainian people, developing cultural institutions, regardless of their forms of ownership, involvement in the sphere of investment culture, costs from the provision of paid services, charity, other non-legislative sources”, by deleting the words, quote, “accessibility of education in the field of culture for children and youth”. Since this duplicates the standards already enshrined in article 53 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 6 of the Education Act, no one is offended by this norm that I propose is completely civilized. Please be supportive. Please also give the right hand to the right hand, to give the command the right hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u171	Karmazin’s 32th amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. The committee didn't even support you, Yuri Anatolovich. [[13:28:53]] For-42 Not supported. Thirty-three, I'm sorry, Strange. Declined. Don't you insist? Yes, Samuel 34th. Counted. 35th Silent. Edited. 36th Silent. Counted. 37th Yavorowski. An amendment shall be put to the vote. And for what there is a note. [[13:29:32]] For-34
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u172	Support for cultural life throughout the world. What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u173	Good suggestions. Giving the Ukrainian character to the modern entertainment industry. How's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u174	The national face of entertainment, what's here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u175	They're all American.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u176	38 revisions. Counted. 39th Chago. Counted. Bilozer 40th. Counted. 41st Carmazin. Declined.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u177	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I propose the introduction of a new article entitled “Responsibility of the central authority of the executive body in the field of tourism”, in the sphere of culture, sorry. The article 5 “Obligation of local executives in the field of culture, ” combining the positions set out in other articles, such as 13, 16 and so forth. And then change the subsequent numbering of the articles. The point is that the central authority of executive power has clearly defined its powers in the sphere of culture and they have to be secured by law then there won't be what happened now, when the decree doesn't seem to be in effect by the President on the reduction of ministries and departments, and it's like he's contradicting the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which recently this majority of right-hand ministers waved and accepted, and now they've adopted contradictory things. So enter a new article. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u178	Mr. Jury, I'm just going to explain to you why we are, because I've already said that we've been looking at the draft in the first reading of the bill, and we're normally introducing a new article, according to our regulations, it's just incredibly difficult. As a result, please let the Supreme Council decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u179	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I can't see anything here, it's all spelled out here: "Responsibility of the central executive authority," but it's not called, and it's "the authority of the central authority." And what's the name of the ministry, the agency, the service, or whatever it is, is that it's the central authority of the executive branch that's taking care of the culture. Yes, I'm voting for the 41th Amendment of Carmazin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:32:12]] For-35 Not supported. 42nd. Konovaluk. Edited. 43rd. Kirilenko. Counted. For confirmation, let's make 43 adjustments. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u180	This article is “About Language ” being deleted. [[13:32:39]] For-35
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u181	Party of regions, the question of the matter stands, there is no store here, why don't you vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u182	It's not like that, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. Because the use of languages in the field of culture remains guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine and is governed by the Language Act of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u183	Yes, more so that it may be in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u184	And the Ukrainian Constitution guarantees the development of the Ukrainian language. So there's nothing to be taken from here. 44th. Yavorowski. Counted. 45th. Yavorowski. And the 46th. Counted. 47th. Konovaluk. Counted. Kowal. 48th. Don't insist. 48th Koval is dismissed. Now you're voting. Okay. The vote is amended by 48 colleagues of Koval. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u185	And there can be no other emphasis on Koval because of that. [[13:33:56]] For 251 She's that there's no such thing as an amendment. I'm a self-sacrifice. 49 Samolik repairs. Declined. Should we put it to a vote? Let's put 49 of the amendment to the vote. It's rejected. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u186	It's about disability benefits, for children. [[13:34:29]] For 232 Correction supported. 50th Kowala, accounted for. 51st Samuel, accounted for. Kirilchuk, 52nd, accounted for. Carmazine, 53rd. 53, Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u187	Carmazine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see some way of calming the Ukrainian phobics who want to adopt the Ukrainian Culture Act calmly. It reads: “Accordingly, ” in article 6. So the amendment is not actually counted, Mr. Chechetov, calm down. So stop hating this Ukrainian language! How much you can do! Well, I realize that a lot of people aren't Ukrainian, but you can't hate that state. It's called Ukraine, Mr. Chechetov! So stand up, do not stand up, but Ukraine was, is, and will be! Only soon will other events happen. You're speeding up. You're catalyzing events that will speed up the destruction of a party like the political map regions in general -- here's what you're going to do with your Ukrainian hate. Don't do this, Mr. Chechetov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u188	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I'd like you to consider that you have a protector in Karmazin's face. Please, 53 votes for confirmation. [[13:36:15.]] For 253 Yeah, 54's on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u189	You tell me that was Carmazin's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u190	Carmazine's been fixed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u191	I would like to point out once again that Karmazin's amendment has been made, and today this is the first amendment of Carmazin that has been made. Mr. Yuri, congratulations on your victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u192	[[13:36:38]] For-12. 54 revisions are not supported. 55th, 56th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u193	Dry says, “The Regional Party of Fatherland Defenders.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u194	Puts to the vote article 56. [[13:37:07]] For 231 Supported. 57th is on support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u195	I offer my apologies to the Party of Motherland Defenders.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u196	57th in favour. A silent repair. No, he did. Huh? [[13:37:30.]] For-35 The 58th Yavorowski accounted for. For confirmation. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u197	Well, read it. The state creates conditions for the cultural development of Ukrainian citizens of all nationalities. What else do you want, I can't understand? That's stupid. [[13:37:55]] For-28
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u198	Not supported. Kirilchuk, 59th. Yes. Although I didn't understand Kirilczuk. You're an editorial. Now, now, wait. With an amendment of 59.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u199	Silent Paul, take Chechchev by the hands and skip an article.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u200	59th Amendment. There's been an error in the table. It is written, and what to do with it is not clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u201	Yes. So please, then, Kirilchuk's 59 vote is on the vote to be taken into account. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:38:54]] For 224 Not supported. Amendment 60 Silence. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u202	I don't know. Who doesn't vote? Sergey Sobolev, why isn't BUT voting? [[13:39:16]] For-37
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u203	Not supported. Yavorovsky’s 61th Amendment. No objections? Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please calm down, because we will now vote and vote later. Then you'll explain the relationship. The 60 amendments reached 37 votes. Not supported. Yavorovsky’s 61 amendments are included. 61st? 61st is on confirmation. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u204	I read the intentional contents of the second part in articles 6, paragraphs 5, 6 and 7. So don't repeat it. Why not vote for this article? [[13:40:09]] For-37
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, you're all experienced.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u206	Mikhailo Chechtov, explain to people why you did not vote for this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u207	Volodymyr Alexanderovich, I'm going to explain to you and the people. The point is, if the deputy who had just become a deputy were to speak, one could believe it. But, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, you know, according to the second, third, fifth, 7th, 9th, and so on, there is a specific meaning. So you don't have to say what's wrong with that. There's nothing wrong here. It's bad because they don't accept MPs and where it's written down. That's why 62nd Silent, please. Yes, the silent microphone. Please. We give him our word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u208	Dear Adam Ivanovich and distinguished national MPs, colleagues! I propose in a few paragraphs that the definition of existing and proposed "respect for culture, language, tradition, customs and rituals of the Ukrainian people" should be deciphered, because the cultural sphere is not general, but it is based on ethnic principles. That's why I'm making some clarifications in this paragraph. This means that the Ukrainian people will replace the words of the Ukrainian nation of indigenous peoples and national minorities of Ukraine, embrace, integrate. There is no such category as "peace culture," which is made up of cultures of other nations. And that's why I'm differentiated here. There are no priorities or preferences for anyone. These are general principles, they apply to Russian culture and Russian law on cultures, so they apply to others. I'm sorry, I literally duplicated the existing Russian law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u209	62 amendments shall be made to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:42:28]] For-51 Not supported. 63 counts. Konovaluk, Bilozer, 64 revisions. Puts the vote to the vote. [[13:42:56]] For-32 Not supported. 65th, Stranger. Counted. 66th. What's that? 66th Yavorowski. Please vote 66. Each of you has a comparative table. Whoever doesn't know the alphabet and can't read, let him talk. I'll read it to him. [[13:43:30.]] For-39 Not supported. Yavorowski, 67 counts. Koval, 68 counts. 69th, Samuel. Counted. Kirilenko, 70th count. Yavorowski, 71st accounted for. 72nd, Koval. 73rd, Samuel. 74th, Karpuk. 75th, Yavorowski. Counted. Konovaluk, 76th. 77th, Stranger. 78th, Silent, partially accounted for. 78's on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:44:27]] For-41 Not supported. 79th, Yavorowski, supported. It's the 79th vote. [[13:44:52]] For-44 Not supported. Teeth, 80th counted. Chago, 81st accounted for. Okay, Crutz, 82nd's on support. Please. [[13:45:19]] For-26 Not supported. Kirilchuk's 83th vote is on the vote. It's counted here. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:45:39]] For-38 Yes, 38 is not supported. 84, Carmagina - correction included. It's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u210	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I propose, paragraph one, that parts of the first article 19 should be set out in the following wording: “The demands of culture are created in the form of legal persons of any legal form established by law. The property of cultural establishments may be held in public, municipal or private property." End of offer. Because the master code of Ukraine does not have the concept of "organizational and legal form of farming", which is a novelty. Because of this, I want to see what kind of literature they want to take against this amendment. Because of this, I believe, and I ask you to support this amendment, so that the President will not correct you later, that you are violating the constitutional rights of citizens, and you are violating the Code of Masters and Civil. It's absolutely right, as Carmazin amended. Please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u211	Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich, you're absolutely right. Except for one. Please tell me, what is the form of ownership of political parties and public organizations?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u212	Private? What kind of private? Here's an 84 vote. [[13:47:36]] For-23 Not supported. 85th Karpuka is voting. A word of chicken, please. Take down the vote. Carpupuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u213	It is, of course, very painful for honourable deputies to see how the Ukrainian spirit is completely eradicated from this law, and all memories give the word “Ukrainian”, “Ukrainian culture”, “Ukrainian national product”, are deleted from this bill. In fact, this becomes the general law on cosmopolitan culture, where there is no Ukrainian spirit, there is no Ukraine. My amendment to this also applies to the essence of Karmazin and Crutz, which are not supported. I realize that it will not be supported, but the question is, Should we adopt a law where there is no Ukrainian spirit?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u214	The amendment shall be voted on. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:48:57]] For-57 Not supported. The 86th of Konovaluka is voting. [[13:49:18]] Z-11. Not supported. Eighty-seven is on Wonderland vote. [[13:49:37]] For-28 Not supported. 88th Yavorowski. Counted. For confirmation? Let's put it on confirmation. [[13:50:02]] For-38 Dear colleagues, there's no politics in the 88s, so don't worry. No, no, there's not. The 89th Yavorowski accounted for. We're putting it on confirmation. There's no politics here either. Yes, yes, now, now, Vladimir Alexandrovich. [[13:50:33]] For-48 Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich. Not supported. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u215	Since the article does not refer to the specifics of cultural activities, it does not mean that it is necessary to repeat the basics of article 12. Elemental, well, just for technical repair. And it's all being deleted, it's being deleted. What will remain of this law? Who needs this law? People are good, they're empty, they're empty. Well, how can the Culture Act be adopted in such a castrated form?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u216	90 revisions counted, Koval. 91st, Samuel. Counted. 92nd, Circle. Counted. 93rd, Kirilchuk. Counted. Carmazine, '94. Counted. 95th, Karpuk. Counted. 96th, Konovaluk. Counted. Strange, 97th. Counted. Yavorowski, 98th. Counted. 99th, Kirilchuk. 100th, Carmazine. Counted. Stranger, 101st. Counted. It's 102nd. Counted. Konovaluk, 103rd. It's the 103rd Konovaluk vote. I'd like to make up my mind. 103th. [[13:52:06]] For 219 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the amendment refers to this: that in part, the documents of the National Archives Fund should be added “archives and documents of them”. Who's for going back to the 103rd Amendment, please be sure. Please vote. [[13:52:51]] For 257 We're back. I'll put 103 of Konovaluk's amendment to the vote. Please be supportive. Technical correction. Technical. [[13:53:10]] For 263 Supported. 104th, Kirilchuk. Counted. 105th, Karpuk, accounted for. 106th, Stranger. Edited. Please vote 106.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u217	Let me read it, Adam Ivanovich! [[13:53:39]] For 248
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u218	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, the unreporter announces the article, I announce. And if there is a desire to report on it, let him be present in the session room. Let him be present in the session room, yes. The 107th Yavorowski accounted for. 108th, Yavorowski. Counted. 109th, Silent. Counted. 110th, Konovaluk. Counted. 111th, Stranger. Counted. 112th, Koval. 113th, Samuel. Counted. Stoyan, 114th, overruled. Don't insist. Kirilenko, 215. It's not clear here. Dear colleagues, let's do 215. Sorry, 115th. Kirilenko is proposing to delete article 21, but the committee said nothing here. I'm putting 115 amendments to the vote. [[13:55:13]] For -8 No correction supported. 116's on the vote. [[13:55:33]] For-0 117th Kowala accounted for. 118th Samuel, accounted for. 119th Karpuk, accounted for. Weird or Weird, 120th is counted. Konovaluk, 121st is editorial. Bilo look, 112-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha. Samolik, 123rd is listed in editorial terms. 123, 123 please vote, 123 amendment. [[13:56:18]] For 240 Dear colleagues, yes, dear colleagues, you should each have a table containing these amendments. Here, please, and read. If you go to school. The file %1 does I didn't take the chart, so it's not my fault they didn't. The 124th Amendment is an accounted-for Samolik. [[B in m in s a l in]] 125th, Yavorowski, accounted for. 126th, Stranger, accounted for. 127th, Yavorowski. 128th, Koval. 129th, Samolik, accounted for. 130th, Yavorowski, accounted for. Please confirm. Yes, please, the Javorov microphone. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u219	The amendment, because of that, give me the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u220	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u221	Part of the paper is: First, on the basis of State social standards, the provision of cultural facilities and cultural services to the population by a specially authorized central executive body in the sphere of culture approves the list of cultural institutions, the basic networks of the state level, as well as the submission of local executive authorities and local self-government bodies, confirms the lists of cultural establishments, the basic network of local level, as the basic network of cultural institutions ensures compliance with the social standards guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine, so its function is related to delegated powers. It's a perfectly normal correction that can be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u222	Actually, you're right. But in the first edition there is also a “reaffirming the list of institutions of the culture of the basic network of the local level”. The same is true in the first edition. Right. There's 130 on the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:58:14]] For-31 Not supported. 131st, Yavorowski, accounted for. 132nd, Yavorowski, accounted for. 133rd, Koval. 134th, Samuel. 135th, Koval. 136th, Koval. 137th, Samolik, accounted for. 138th, Carmazin, accounted for. Karpuk, 139th. 140th, Konovaluk. 141st, Stranger. 142th, Koval. 143, Samuel. 144th, Koval. 145th, Samuel. 146th, Koval. 147th, Samuel. 148th, Yavorowski, accounted for. 149th, Yavorowski, accounted for. 150th, Silent, accounted for. 151st, Konovaluk, accounted for. 152nd, Konovaluka, rejected, does not insist. 153, rejected, Stoyana, does not insist. Kirilchuk, 154th, accounted for. Conovaluk 155th, accounted for. Strange, 156th, counted. Yavorowski, 157th, accounted for. So, dear fellows, we've been through all the adjustments. Vladimir Aleksandrovich, you can call again. Please. I'm voting on the adoption in general, in the second reading and in the whole of the Culture Act, taking into account the votes we made with you. [[Registration number 6469]] Please vote. [[14:00:32]] For 288 The Culture Act is adopted. There's only one thing left for him to work and finance. School microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u223	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Actually, the school did not have to read the names of those articles that it voted on because it knew them. And the audience and the audience who should know what the Party of Regions is, how bravely it is, persistently and wholeheartedly destroying the Ukrainian state. Because that's their goal. And Ukrainian culture. Because in principle they don't need any culture, they need Ukrainian culture first. And you needed to know the names of those heroes that would lead to Ukrainian culture being a subject, not a judgment in its own state. I hope the Party of Regions understands the difference between the subject and the verdict. No, look. That's why I actually encouraged you, Adam Ivanovich, as chairman of the session to inform our electorate, in a way that our authority today destroys Ukrainian culture and hopes that by destroying Ukrainian culture, they will destroy the Ukrainian state. Because that's, I'm sure, their main and only goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-14-m0.u224	Thank you. But once again, we passed the Ukrainian Culture Act, and we passed the Culture Act. About culture. We didn't divide the culture of our country into different components. At this, my dear colleagues, I declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council closed. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue our work at night.
