ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:45]] Cards were registered in the 416 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague Lutsky Maxim Georgievovich, the national deputy of Ukraine. Please welcome him and wish him every success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on June 3, 2010. Eight issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, one law and three decrees were passed, three bills and one draft decree were adopted on a basis, and five bills were rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with articles 25 and 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. “hour of questions to the Government. ” Representatives of non-committal MPs made proposals during the “hour of questions to the Government” The Ukrainian Cabinet should answer questions about the state and prospects of business development in Ukraine. Today, on the “hour of questions”, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is represented by Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for Economic Policy Tikipko Sergey Leonidovich. Also present: Deputy Minister of Finance Kuzkin Evgen Yuriovich, First Deputy Minister of Agriculture Policy Melnik Sergey Ivanovich, Minister of Labour and Social Policy Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich, Sirotuk Sergey Vejacheslavovich, First Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy, Tsushko Vasil Petrovich, Minister of Economics, Jaroshenko Fedir Alexiyovich, Minister of Finance, Brodski Mikajlo Juryovich, Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Dorokhovsky Alexander Mikolajovich, First Deputy Head of the State Customs Service, Papaika Alexander Alexiyovich, Head of the State Tax Administration. Dear colleagues, I remind you that the rules for the conduct of the “hour of questions to the Government” are set out in article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It takes 30 minutes to question members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from MP factions who do not form part of the coalition. According to article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the deputy faction of the Ulya Timoshenko Block, informed the Cabinet of Ministers in advance of the questions to be raised during the "hour of questions to the Government". After the government's answers to these questions, it is proposed to take the rest of the time to answer the questions directly from the people's deputies of the faction of the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" bloc, if such questions arise. Then 30 minutes is proposed to be taken to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Tihypek Sergio Leonidovich. Is there no objection? Well, maybe there are some suggestions that we don't have at all. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the rostrum of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine on the economic policy of Tihypak Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u2	Good afternoon, gentlemen and gentlemen! We received a previous question from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. I'd like to start with them. First question. How do you comment on mass cases when taxpayers, without any explanation, return tax returns to entrepreneurs at added cost with the requirement to recycle them and not show them the right amount of tax credit? What legal right do taxpayers have to refrain from accepting tax declarations at all or to require prior signatures from them by taxpayers, inspectors and so on, to create artificial conditions not to submit a declaration in the established terms and to expose an entrepreneur to fines because of futile attempts to report on time? Dear National Deputies! I want to say that the law provides for the filing of a tax declaration in three forms. First. It's e-mailed on paper media and mail on paper media. And I can say that in 2009, 90, if I'm not mistaken, 93 percent of the reports were made electronically. But now there's really a problem that we're dealing with, and I can tell you that it was primarily caused by the tax administration to fight the minimalists, the tax evasion. But I can tell you that with water, I think, they also started to paint a baby called. We have 11 cases where the tax administration may not accept the tax declaration, but these are purely technical cases. There's no seal, there's no data, there's something there that's inexplicably prescribed, and so on. So I think that, really, this problem exists, and I think that these local curves are going to have to be corrected. What have they done? On May 21, we gathered the Board of Entrepreneurs and discussed the matter with the tax administration, and we discussed the matter with all the government authorities present. By letter after these meetings on May 26, I signed a letter to all the district administrations, where I drew attention to this, because in the end we will lose, in the shadow of this, we will only take such steps of our business, and I have committed to having business meetings with the taxpayers, with the customs officers, in all areas, to discuss this issue. On May 31st, I met with the tax administration with entrepreneurs at my home, where we discussed specific actions. And today the Council of Experts is going to take effect, which has not been convened for a year. Today, such a meeting will take place under the head of the tax administration. There will be very concrete steps to be taken. Thank you. The second question. For entrepreneurs, innovation in the sharp increase in VAT payments was a shock when Project 6337 taxed the right to cancel the VAT payer’s certificate if the sole national register of legal persons and natural persons recorded the absence of a legal person or a natural person at its location. It is not difficult to provide such a record. For example, if the registration address and the actual business address do not match. Or tax is not a very conscientious search for a business, and so on. The effect of this action on the cancellation of the tax payer's certificate is that he loses his tax credit and his counterparties can't automatically take it into account. Will the State win? First. I would like to point out that the tax administration does not affect the Registry of Legal and Physical Persons. This register is maintained by a company. And in any case, if the registration disappears, there is no problem with the compensation of VAT by a counterparty. Because these are accounted for until the company was expelled from the register. So all of these are still there. We don't see any special problems here. Again. Why was such a move initiated? I can tell you why. Because now that we've started dealing with those payments, especially with the return of the MDW that we need to return now, I can call the numbers. They don't have any businesses that are now claiming VAT returns of 5.8 billion dollars. Not a single employee! And 5.8 they want us to pay them back. They don't export companies that have 4 billion dollars, and they don't have practically any $1.1 billion core funds. So 10 billion today is practically a business that raises a lot of doubts. In order to start working more thoroughly with them, such a standard was introduced. Question three. In 2010, a significant obstacle to business management and development in Ukraine was the removal of circumvention costs from businesses due to the draconian arrangements for VAT compensation, when the taxpayer was denied the right to include in the tax credit the following periods unreparable amounts of VAT negative value and transfer of this right only to the first reporting period of 2011, unless, of course, the government comes up with something similar in the following year. Moreover, this year essentially changed the rules of the first event when an entrepreneur has the right to include only the amounts actually paid to suppliers and imports. Thus, the State minimizes its VAT compensation, does not conduct affordable credit policies, leaves the enterprise to survive at its own risk. Where is the promised support, where is the relief, where is the logic of development? First. I would like to point out that when the government came, we had an extremely difficult VAT problem. What I'm saying is that on May 1st, there's no damage to the VAT that's tested, we have 23 billion dollars -- that's what's accumulated in 2008, 2009 and the first quarter of 2010. What steps have we taken? We could not take these measures until we had accepted the budget. Following the adoption of the budget, we have now released the GDP under the Budget Act and the government decision taken for all 23 billion. What does that do? Virtually all of these debtors have the opportunity to make a voluntary application and obtain government securities worth 5.5 percent. I can say that, really, one question that didn't work out for entrepreneurs who really wanted to get these securities, all without exception, is the question of income. We've discussed this very seriously with them, but I can tell you that today, with such a hard budget and with the problems that we still have in the economy today, economic growth has begun, but it's completely unsteady, giving some more return, in my opinion, we don't have a right. Everyone lost during the crisis. And I don't think any of these losses can be accounted for exclusively by one state, so we gave these securities. Discons will depend on how market operators behave. If they all want to get and get into the money alive today, I really think it's going to be a problem because the discounts are going to be significant. But what I'm saying is, first of all, these securities go out every six months 10 percent. It's a so-called coupon. 10 percent every six months the company receives living money from the government, this time. Secondly, such securities were released, if I'm not mistaken, in 2004, exactly. And I could say that within a month the discount was 10-12 percent. I mean, if we don't hurry now, businesses will get a good discount, but it'll be living money they'll never see if we give them back VAT with the level of revenue we have today. Secondly, the introduction of amendments to the law will in no way invalidate the rules of the first event, nor change the rules on the determination of VAT amounts to compensation at any time, and any way, even if at the current time, even in the light of future payments. It is only a temporary freezing of the negative value accumulated in the declaration. What is it? There's a 26-page discussion, and in order to get this 26-page analysis, we've taken a break for 2010, where we have to deal with every enterprise. Why, I said. Because we have these 10 billion to deal with in person. It's practically tax evasion, it's money laundering, it's what we have to fight against. Four. A significant obstacle to business management and development in Ukraine, the laundering of the business’s circulation costs will be initiated by the government to restrict the transfer of losses, to increase the artificial profitability of enterprises. In 2010, only 20 percent of the value of a negative value of an income tax object will be included in gross costs. However, regardless of the causes that led to the business’s damage. In this way, it is planned not to add up, but to take some 4.5 billion dollars away from entrepreneurs from development costs. Where are the reforms? Where is business development? Let's be honest that, in fact, the damage that has been created in businesses has increased significantly, and I want to say that almost doubled the number of businesses that have gone bankrupt. In 2009, we have 4.3 thousand of these enterprises. The amount of damage declared has increased even more – 2.2 times, from 37 billion dollars to 83. The law does not reject such losses as it did in previous years, but it does suggest that they have an impact on the budget in time. What's the story? If you've shown damage this year, you're practically paying nothing. If you've shown a profit tax, only 20 percent of the damage you've accumulated so far, you can count and write it down. Of course, that's, I can say, a problem for businesses, but we also have a budget. When we discussed this with entrepreneurs, and we, I mean, we discussed this very seriously, we found some compromise, understanding this situation. If we don't get into the budget, it's going to slow down economic growth, it's going to slow down economic growth -- it's going to lose business. So 20 percent -- we found the compromise that satisfied the business, and I think that's still a pretty good offer. Next. Fifth question. “How do you explain the introduction of a zero tax on added value for imported natural gas, while the sale of essential food, residential services, taxation, – at full VAT rate – is justified by an increase for small business subjects in 2 times the term of planned and non-planned exit checks? As far as gas taxation is concerned. The first part. In fact, at import we are. In fact, the taxation of gas supply transactions in Ukraine will generally take place with a tax rate of 20 percent, i.e. virtually on internal consumption, this tax will be paid in the way it was paid. It's just that when we import the import gas, we're not going to charge VAT for imports. But this volume is not going to go back to Naftogaz. In 2009, what we did: we took 8 billion from Naftogazu, and then put 8 billion in return for it. In order not to do so, we practically provided for such a procedure in the law. There's no way in hell that's gonna work in the internal market. As far as the tests are concerned. As for the number of tests scheduled for the first half of 2010, the Tax Administration has formally reduced them from 15,000 to 12. But the law that was adopted after that increased the time limits of five days for all subjects. In fact, I think this may cause some problems for the business. But I can say that, especially in large enterprises, I think now the taxpayer will have to figure it out. Why? Because in 2007, we had about 20, if I am not mistaken, 25 billion, to return. After that, 2008-2009 is 38 billion. We've had a very significant increase in VAT returns. We just need to figure it out, figure it out. It just takes time for the tax administration. Question six. Today, Ukrainian legislation contains more than a hundred legal acts that regulate the provision of administrative services and several thousand of the services provided by public authorities. Why is the government delaying the creation of a single register of administrative services, taking no steps to arrange a system for the determination of salaries for these services, and has not yet imposed moratoriums on both the number of public authorities that have the right to provide them and the expansion of the list of services themselves? I think the main problem here is that we don't have a law that defines what administrative services are. Not at all. Such a law was prepared by the government, but then, before that, it was introduced by national deputy Konovaluk. It's practically consistent with ours, so we're about to initiate the adoption of such a law. In parallel, the Ministry of Economics and Entrepreneurship has been commissioned to analyse all kinds of administrative services, all the enterprises that provide them and bring them in, to raise questions at the Cabinet meetings. Many of these administrative services are provided by decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers, some by laws, laws and regulations provide for a reduction in the number of such administrative services and the order of prices for those defined by law, and by the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, we will make an appropriate decision which will also allow us to limit prices and limit the number of these services. I think that's one of the main problems for the budget. Because thousands of these companies provide these services, and the money does not come into the budget. They're practically in these businesses and they're still, they're billions of money. What measures is being taken by the government to ensure that the electronic form of reporting for small and medium-sized businesses is properly functioning in Ukraine, under which public tax inspectors will not have the right to deny businesses electronic reporting and to require them to submit these same reports on paper media. And access to appropriate electronic databases is free of charge or at minimum cost.” First of all, I want to say that really, legally, our entrepreneurs can report electronically. To do that, an entrepreneur has to pay for an electronic key. This money, the payment is one per year, from 60 to 200 dollars. All other payments must be made free of charge. In 2009, we spent 96, I said maybe a slightly different number, 96 percent of the electronic reports. Now, in 2008, you could say that there were less than 44 percent. When it comes to the real practice that exists today, I can say that if there are problems with electronic reports, it only applies to breaches by the tax administration. And with these violations, we agreed that entrepreneurs would give me information personally and we would deal with the head of the tax administration. That's a violation. In electronic terms, an entrepreneur has the right to report electronically by law. As for further simplification, we will soon introduce the Single Social Contribution Act, which we have agreed with employers and trade unions, which will bring together four social payments in one. The law has been passed, and the Cabinet of Ministers has already been introduced into the Supreme Council. Well, in the near future, we're preparing a simplified tax system law, and it's practically ready. In this law there will be a separate article that will provide for reporting, how the reporting will go. Thank you. “Does the government have reliable data on the situation that has recently arisen on Illich’s VAT? Illica”, in particular with regard to the purchase of the combination by offshore companies, changes in the structure of shareholders and planned release from the combination of 30,000 employees? What steps is Kabin going to take to protect the interests of the state while alienating a strategically important enterprise and to reduce the social tension in the region in connection with the important liberation of the multi-million-dollar army of combined workers?" I want to say that the state doesn't have a share in Ilić's mariupal metallurgical combination. I spoke to Mr. Boyke personally, with my head, and I asked him if there was any support needed by the government, we were ready to give it to him. But I know that the corresponding tasks are given to all the powerful ministries of the President of Ukraine, and I am convinced that everything will be decided by law. What measures is being taken by the government to restore full youth mortgage lending and to reduce the mortgage mortgage mortgage rate to the 7 percent of the annual President's pre-election programme. What is being done in the area of housing lending, and what measures will be taken? Following the adoption of the budget, the Supreme Council foresees an increase in the statute of the Fund for Promoting Youth Housing Loans of 30 million, 30.3 million. It is also envisaged that 2 billion will provide State guarantees to a state mortgage facility. One billion is projected to increase the statutory DIU fund. And there's a budget of 1 billion 40 million to buy condos for cashiers. Also, if we solve the question with the Nadra Bank, and I think we can do it as soon as possible, it is predicted that the 700 million dollars that were given to the Nadra Bank as a loan from the DIU will be returned at the same time. So this is going to contribute to both lowering the rate and increasing the volume of lending. Vladimir Mikhailovich, these are all the questions that have been written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u3	I'm asking you to sign up the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" for a question. You've already had your writings answered, Your Honor. Please sign in. Please, Kirilo Kulikov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Sergey Leonidovich, he's heard everything, it's interesting. The first two questions relating to State EIAs. So we all know that we are not living in this country on the first day, and we know how much VAT discount is being reimbursed. So it's 30 to 40 percent, we know the practice. So the question is: will you not drop to this level of discount in the price of securities? Doesn't it make sense to establish several state banks that will be the gateway to issuing these government papers so that they don't dissipate? That's the first question. And the second question. I have been trying for a long time to implement a programme aimed at the construction of service housing for the military. So this is an effective mechanism, first of all, to fight corruption, so we can't just be the depth of the head and say that they're all corrupt. Today, I think, is the best time to start a serious comprehensive one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u5	Thank you for asking. As for those valuable papers we issued. Of course, 23 billion is a huge figure, if everyone wants to discount, that would be a problem. But what I want to say is that today, in the banking sector, we have an excessive liquidity, a significant excess liquidity, over 20,000 billion gruels. Which banks keep that money and banks don't know where to invest. On the other hand, they have debt in the same enterprises, and today the banks will be very beneficial to buy or take these securities themselves because these securities, because they are valuable to the Government, are accepted by the National Bank as refinancing. And banks benefit greatly from this tool and gradually gain their small income and repayment every six months by 10 per cent. I know that very many Western companies have started working with these tools today. I don't think it's necessary to have two state banks in place to limit discounts, because that's exactly where it can start opaquely. I think the market will be able to swallow these volumes over time. Of course, this could affect the issue for the Government, precisely for the Government. Why? Because it can make our exits more difficult for the internal market. Because investors will take these securities with a good return. But we do have access to external markets, because what we are going to do is go to the internal market is completely out of the question, and it's not logical, and it's not right, that we're actually taking resources away from our own economy, which is not developing. I therefore believe that this market instrument should work as a market mechanism. I would like to stress that this is a voluntary tool that has wanted to apply to the tax administration and then to the treasury. The money is accounted for by two government banks, initially two government Sberbanks and Eximbank, but then there is nothing to interfere with the business in securities.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u6	There was another question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u7	I'll answer very briefly then. I am ready to cooperate with these issues now, because we are now preparing for the new fiscal year, and now this programme will have to work if it has to be included in the 2011 budget. Ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u8	Ivan Stojko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u9	Thank you. I'll ask Kseniya Leapini one question. Sergey Leonidovich, please provide information, if possible, sectorally on investment what trend today compared to last year? And please pass the word to Kseniya Lapini.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u10	Lupina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u11	Thank you. Xenia Leapina, group “For Ukraine!” Sergey Leonidovich, most of all today small business subjects are concerned about the issue of a simplified tax system. We have heard various statements. Yesterday, the president of Ukraine said he would keep a simplified tax system. The head of the Entrepreneurship has published his position, which is more of a radical change, not a preservation. I know that under your guidance, another version of the bill on a simplified tax system is being developed. What model will the government choose? This is of great concern to entrepreneurs today, since about a million of them work in markets and are indeed very many.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u12	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u13	Those who work in the market and don't really survive the increase in tax burden, they're very excited about the increase in the workload that's been happening lately.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u14	With regard to the question of John Stojko. Mr. Stojko, I'll give you some written information because you're asking for sectoral information, and I don't have any sectoral information with me right now, they're preparing my assistants today, and they're going to give you this information. As far as the question of Kseniya Liapina is concerned, I think this is one of the main tasks of the government right now, because the problem of a simplified tax system affects about 3 million people who are working, who are working, and who are employed, who are now. I can tell you right now, there are no decisions we can make about the destruction of this system. Of course, she'll stay. We also know that there are certain problems that today are agreed upon by the same businessmen and entrepreneurs. What is it? We have included in the list of activities that are completely out of the ordinary for small businesses some types of activity. And in order for us not to lose our taxes and destroy the very principle of support, first of all a small enterprise, we're going to have to give up some. One. The other one. Of course, there is some part of the companies that simply optimize their tax revenues through this system. But I can say that, together with the boards of entrepreneurs, I have 40 to 50 representatives of all markets, from all over Ukraine, we've worked out a position on legal persons, and we don't anticipate any pressure there. What's more, I can tell you that we've looked into some businesses, and how much do these people pay when they pay for a simplified system? So I can say that in small businesses like this, they pay more than the businesses that do the same thing and are in the general tax system. So this is a completely legal and state-friendly approach. As far as natural persons are concerned, there is little work to be done. We're almost there, and now we just need to work it out with business. Once again, the little entrepreneurs themselves will come together, and we will work it out. We want to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u15	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like you to enroll in the questions for the next half hour, everyone. It's an announcement, my fellow officers. I'm going to the Rules. In writing, why don't you give it to me? Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Ruslan Knazevich, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u16	Sergey Leonidovich, I have a brief question, and then I'd like to pass it on to Zebravski. What's our destiny and perspective with the IMF loan anyway? Because experts say, including from America, that so far it's hopeless. And secondly, what is the proportion of the funding that is coming is going to be sent to this sector. Thank you. And Jebrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u17	Please, Jerbrowsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u18	Sergei Leonidovich, well, actually the VAT operation continues. 30,000 businesses have been established in all areas, and this operation needs to be stopped, including when VAT returns are not accepted. And those statements are really, unfortunately, working, aren't they? The second question. Well, actually consumer demand dropped by 2.7 percent in 4 months, and actually there's a percentage of 5. What does the government do about heating consumer demand? And what the government is doing about reducing credit rates in Russia -- the same Reiffeisenbank is below 7-9.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u19	As far as IMF is concerned. We're working. Next week, we're going to have an International Monetary Fund mission that's practically going to have appropriate powers. The text part of the agreement is fully operational. I can say that we've initiated and introduced a significant amount of structural reforms, which, according to our belief, in time will add additional revenue, first of all, you know what we're talking about -- and the Tax Code, and economic deregulation, and so on. So I'm sure this program will be. One thing I can say is that this money is getting smaller and less going to finance the budget deficit. Now the IMF has changed, and it's changed its attitude. And this money in most of its, which could be between $12 billion and $19 billion, will go to the currency reserves, to the currency reserves increase. So they're not going to be eaten, they're going to stay at the National Bank. VAT. It's not working. I can tell you right now, we're gonna keep working. Because I had a very harsh conversation with the taxpayers. We've done, we've done business, we've agreed that today will be another step taken by the tax administration. There'll be problems, there'll be business calls, I'll call on the head of the tax administration to get him to release those workers who continue these screwdrivers. Because I know very well, with this kind of action, you can increase the budget yield, but it's going to be a month-and-a-half. After that, our business, it knows what to do, it'll just go dark. And that's it, and after that six months or a year, we're just gonna get it out of there. Absolutely wrong approach. As far as consumer demand is concerned. We're watching this. The numbers are yours. And we expect this month to see an increase in this consumer demand. On what account? We've raised the minimum wage, the wage, the large amount, the two-and-a-half GDP, we're practically putting on the consumer market Ukrainian, and we're giving to the poor themselves, those who don't immediately accumulate it, they're eating it. At the same time, the VAT is still refundable, so let the prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u20	Please, one last question. Finish up there.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u21	Although valuable paper, it also initiates consumption. What about loans? The main problem is the National Bank. And I'm convinced that's the rate and the mechanism for refinancing commercial banks. We are now preparing four laws with the National Bank to protect the rights of the creditor, to further protect the independence of the National Bank and so on. I am convinced that after that we will have to sit down and work very seriously with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u22	Yegorov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u23	Dear Sergey Leonidovich! Well, as no one knows, the crisis has had a negative impact on our country's investment. Please tell me what the Government is doing to restore investor confidence and to increase investment income both external and domestic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u24	Thank you. In terms of investments, I'll say that investors will react, investors will react to our actions. There's been a lot of talk and I don't think we've done much in recent years. What needs to be done. First of all, we must adjust our economy. And there are a number of decisions here, in the Supreme Council. We have introduced a bill that has more than halved verification organizations in Ukraine twice. We have now passed a bill on a single social contribution. We have passed an anti-rerader so-called law that will be here and protect property rights. We have enacted 8 laws. So if this is all happening, in parallel with this in a month and a half, we have the task of introducing the Tax Code, which we are currently working on with entrepreneurs, this is all together, plus the programme with the International Monetary Fund that we should have, even if all of this money goes to the National Bank, it will help, if we put it together, I think, plus the political stability that we have today, I think it will be a very big incentive for investors. This will allow us to resume the amounts we had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u25	Yuri Odarchenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u26	Please pass it on to Serbia, Yuri Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u27	National Deputy Serbin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u28	Dear Sergey Leonidovich! Well, about the answer to the first question, you weren't very sincere. And yet I'm asking you to take care of this. For if the taxpayer does not accept reporting, it does not accept reporting and forces the entrepreneur to correct the reporting so, it is convenient. Including the question of pressure, not that the legal address does not match the actual, though tax knows. And so the decision they made about the legal address is not very valid, please look. Now for the second question. The government said it's going to build housing because it's now being built as an enterprise in decline. But in order to raise housing, it is necessary that prices correspond to people’s capabilities. And now we have from January 1st the price of the same metal rose to two.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u29	Yuri Sergiyovich, first of all, we've worked very hard with tax and customs for, in fact, the last month. And I expect that now will be the right response. And right now, I can tell you, this isn't just about these questions. The tax administration sent appropriate letters, which itself practically do not exist, which practically dealt with the legislation itself. One of these dangerous letters was canceled after talking to me, after the Ministry of Justice said it was an improper approach that violated legislation. So in every direction, we're going to work hard with the tax administration. It seems to me that we will soon solve this problem. As far as housing is concerned. Now, in my opinion, we need to solve a few problems in parallel that will help us to restore quantity, on the other hand, to lower prices. First of all, it's land allocation and all of the decisions and powers. It takes a lot of time, and it takes a lot of money. We spend 400, on average, 65 days, while our neighbors 250 days, and in Europe, 150 days as much as possible. That's why I think it's important. The second is the development of our construction industry. If we look at how much we're carrying on imports, we're practically not making our elevators at best this is Belarus, we're carrying a lot of constructions of anything. So if we push it here, the same import duty will go on and on. So I think we're going to go all over the line. We are preparing such a program, we are studying the experience of Turkey, which is very active and has very good approaches now. And I think Mr. Yatsuba and I will offer the government a nice program together.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u30	People's Deputy Wonderland, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u31	Basil Wonder, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Sergey Leonidovic, the economic reform programme presented yesterday by President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine presents two dozen directions to reform. In this regard, I have a question for you. Please tell us what reforms are going to be a priority for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u32	Thank you. In fact, it was presented yesterday, and I think it's a very complex and beautiful program that provides for three stages of work. There are the first steps, there are the second turn reforms that will begin in 2011-2012, and there is the third turn in 2013-2014. By the way, I can tell you that these are still action-oriented and oriented terms. Why? Because we agreed that another month we are working with all those who want to work on this reform system and want to make proposals. In a month, only the final decision will be made. What is foreseen at the first stage: fiscal stability, tax reform, financial sector development, small and medium-sized deregulation, privatization acceleration, social support reform, the development of a transparent market in agriculture, energy reform and reform of the oil and gas industry. This is the first stage that we're going to do by the end of 2010. Once again, there may still be proposals, including yours, Mr. Wonderful, taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u33	Yuri Prokopchuk, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u35	Who? Oleg Lazko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u36	Who? It's a can. Who? Dear Sergey Leonidovich, I have two questions for you. First. When will tax breaks for small and medium-sized businesses be promised? That's what today's authorities have promised before the elections, and now, you've said they're developing appropriate documents. I think it's important for millions of entrepreneurs to know when these vacations will be. And the second. As the former head of the National Bank, I refer to you not only as the vice-premier of the current active government of Azarov and Yanukovic. You know, the main problem with business is that there's no circulation costs. So you took the money from them without returning the VAT and they also don't have the ability to take the loan because it goes to 25-30 percent. Why are such high credits in commercial banks because of the over-refunding rate of the national bank? When other countries are Europe, America is a zero bet, our National Bank is setting up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u37	Complete the question, please. Finish the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u38	sets high rates that deprive commercial banks of the ability to lend, and business is not able to receive these costs. This is a fundamental problem that the government has to solve. When are you going to solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u39	As far as tax vacations are concerned, you know, when we're talking about a simplified system, believe me, I'm very interested in that. In 1998, Alexander Kugel and I initiated these taxes, and they worked virtually unchanged all this time. Now is the time to change them, including the possibility of introducing tax breaks. We're preparing them now. I said that in this session you would see a law that worked, which I would also like him to work without change for another 10 to 15 years, give stability to a small business. I gave him the opportunity to grow up in that middle class, because he can raise what's called a head on account of it. As far as VAT is concerned. I would ask, first of all, not to blame the government of Azarov right now, because, I said, we have 23 billion left of the government of Timoshenko. Now we've found a way out, and we've made this restructuring. There are some problems for business, but this is a big step forward. What do we want? Already in August, we want to go to the automatic VAT return for taxpayers, who will not be in the scheme of these tax pits, tax companies, it will be primarily large taxpayers, and then it will be distributed to medium-sized enterprises. If that works, and that's in 2004, when I worked at the National Bank, and Mikola Janovich was in charge then, as Deputy Prime Minister of Finance, we were able to do that. And then, you remember, there was an automatic VAT return. If that's it, if that's it. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. As far as credit is concerned, please, we need to approach this issue without population. We need to do much to solve this problem. I said that the refinancing is clearly needed by the National Bank. Second position. We have to protect it. And lower the bet, it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u40	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u41	It has to be a little higher than inflation. Today inflation is going to be a percentage of nine, that is, 10-11 percent can be the rate of refinancing. The other one. We need to help commercial banks, we didn't protect the creditor's rights. During the crisis, we made many populist decisions to support those who took credit. But they all put pressure on commercial banks that, at the expense of today's high rate, try to figure it out. We have to solve the problem of these "dirty" loans, take them away, buy them out if necessary. We've done it all over the world, now we're doing it. We're preparing, I'm convinced that much will work out, we're preparing a law that will protect not only the creditor, but also make the procedure clear to those who took the loan, first of all, the people, so that they can determine what steps they should take in this system. If this works, it will certainly affect the bet. Well, you have to say more, if there's less political destabilization, it's going to affect people. People are afraid, people are afraid because. And that's why these high rates are given in national currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u42	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u43	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Dear Sergio Leonidovich, the tax authorities of the districts do not accept both the declaration and the VAT on profits. You're just obstructing business and not letting businesses declare tax credit. They've made VAT a tax on turnover. Now with this question, what kind of the thesis in your election program is the government in which you lead the economic bloc in this way?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u44	Mrs. Bodnar, this is the third time I've answered this question. I have these suggestions from the National MPs: There are such problems, please contact me personally. I promise to deal with any such appeal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because, I'll be honest with you, what we're now starting to do on a general scale, what we're trying to solve with the tax administration at the expense of the measures might not work. There's going to be some separate cases, and I'm ready to work with that. And with regard to passwords, I can say, one thing: we have to go out on automatic return of VAT without bribes that have reached 40 percent in recent years, or 50 percent have paid people living bribe money just to get their VAT back.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u45	Sanchenko, Block Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u46	Give Paul’s word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u47	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u48	Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u49	Please. Yeah. Nadesh, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u50	Sergei Leonidovich, I am grateful that you have listened with such patience to the demands of our opposition and have responded professionally to them. But essentially. Today we are very fast developing our relationship with Russia, moving, in fact, through seven steps. But for me, I feel that there is no need to imbalance foreign policy. We should go to the West, to the EU countries, and look to the East: China and those "east dragons". What does our leadership do in this regard? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u51	You know, first of all, you've started doing Russia, because if you have an external relationship, in the last five years, I think that most of the problems have just been accumulated in your relationship with Russia: we've practically lost this relationship at the end of Victor Yushchenk's presidency. But I certainly agree with you: the main external economic and political vector must be directed to the European Union. What's going on? We have taken an appropriate programme of concrete steps towards the European Union, made very important decisions on the reform of the technical regulation system, made very important decisions on the sanitary and phytosanitary control system. In the near future, you will see four laws in the Supreme Council relating to technical regulation. This is one of the key issues for us to have an association agreement and a free trade zone. You've already passed two very important laws: the first law on public procurement, one of the key to approaching the European Union, and the protection of information. In the near future, the President will introduce two declarations that will have to be supported. So I think that if this is going to move gradually -- and we certainly have such a clear program -- by the end of the year, we're going to do, well, 90 percent, and we want to do 100 percent, all the decisions that would give us the opportunity to have an association agreement and a free trade zone that goes into this agreement. If we can do that, it's going to be a huge contribution and it seems like a tremendous opportunity for our economy, for our people. By the end of the year, we are also working on a visa-free system, and we are now working on clear issues. In the near future, some will appear here in the Supreme Council. So we're not going to lose any direction. We're about to start talking about a free trade zone with Turkey. This is the second country after Russia by volume, and we have a positive trade surplus there, we'll protect our market, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u52	Please complete your response.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u53	We'll start negotiations with them, too. And we will continue to move around free trade zones with other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u54	People's Mankowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Julia Kovalevski. Kovalevska, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u56	Dear Sergey Leonidovich, today Ukrainian legislation contains over a hundred legal acts that regulate the procedures for the provision of administrative services and several thousand of the services provided by the public authorities themselves. Why is the government delaying the creation of a single register of administrative services? Does he not take any steps to organize the payment system for these services, and he has not yet imposed moratoriums on the increase of both the number of public authorities that have the right to provide them and the expansion of the list of services themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u57	Thank you. I completely answered that question. Now, very briefly, I'm going to do it again. In the near future, we will ask you to uphold the law of Deputy Konovaluk, who will clearly introduce the concept of administrative services into the legislative field. And there will be corresponding restrictions already imposed. And now the Ministry of Economics and the State Enterprise is working to just figure out what businesses they're providing, and in the near future the Cabinet of Ministers are doing the services that are in his well-known, which he can influence, we're going to try to sort out the price, and maybe many of them will be eliminated altogether. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u58	Sergey Pavlovenko, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u59	Thank you. Please pass the word to Vaszczuk Katherina Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u60	Katerina Vaschuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u61	Dear Sergio Leonidovich, you have a question. The MPs came to me from the Pechersky district of Kiev and said they don't specifically accept electronic reporting, they're taking a long, long time. They're carrying a letter -- they're also packing. Next, fines are required. They're small -- 200 bucks. But if they're small entrepreneurs, it's in the pocket. And the second question. Now UBEB of Kiev has directed all the markets that work with agricultural production requirements to present a mass of documents without a basis, such as from the beginning of the founding, which is just documents, to whoever works, where his phone lives, and so on. And that's more than 30 appointments. On what basis, it's like a tax question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u62	Finish the questions, let me finish the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u63	So on the basis of which the penal authorities can make such a denunciation of the criminal case, without a variety of offences. But no one goes to this market with their products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u65	Catherine Timothy! I want to say again, and I'm calling all the deputies, and they're going to be personal, and I want you to contact me personally. Because the taxpayers have been warned several times before, and I have warned myself personally, and the head of the tax administration knows about it, we need facts. It is now necessary to ask someone harshly about such violations. I'll take care of it myself. And I'm going to answer it myself. As far as such cases are concerned. If this happens, it is desirable to send it through the mail, to register it, then there will be no fines. But still, I think we need to get to the bottom of electronic reporting. This is primarily the case with interested entrepreneurs so that no one can touch them, so that they can work quietly, give jobs, and pay their taxes. With regard to these reports, censuses, and so forth. Now, tax administrations are starting to write letters, some decisions they make. One of these decisions had already been canceled, and I said when the ingredients were checked. Such a letter called off by the tax administration, I said if there were any letters that would not be filed, I would simply cancel them with my letters, like the vice-premier. Because all you have to do is sit down and give. After this list, too, let's try to figure it out, I think it's a Kiev invention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u66	Sergei Greeneweck's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u67	Thank you. Sergey Greenewecki, Lithuanian Block faction. Dear Sergey Leonidovich, would you please tell us what you think should be done to make those commercial banks that received the state's refunding become state agents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u68	As for commercial banks, which the state has purchased at the expense of government money practically, these are three banks, you know, Kiev, Rhodewood and Krukgazbank. So I think this decision was made by the previous government at the proposal of the National Bank and these were three systems banks, a certain list of systemic banks. Now we're only working on one bank that has a problem that refers to systems, it's the Nadra Bank. We, I'm sure, will decide, practically the government has already made the right decision, but there are the previous conditions in this decision. First of all, they apply to external borrowings. We need, if the government goes in there, we need all the external borrowings to be restructured for at least seven years. This same restructuring was carried out by the National Bank of Ukraine. As for the future fate of these banks, I'm convinced that we should have a exit strategy after selling these banks so that we can get the money back into the budget. Because it's budgetary practically money. As for the other banks that have been refinanced by the National Bank, I'm convinced that these banks just need to be asked harshly that they have returned the money. All of this refinancing had to be mortgaged by commercial banks. And now the National Bank needs to just keep a close eye on this mortgage and these loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u69	National Deputy Fomin, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u70	Dear Sergio Leonidovich, thank you for your frank answers to the theoretical questions, but the practice testifies to the sad lives of our entrepreneurs. I'm just going to give you some facts that came to our deputies. Cherkas region. The Czech Republic’s DPA has launched an attack on single-tax entrepreneurs, requiring voluntary transfer to other forms of tax payment with a view to increasing them. A restricted area. The head of the municipal administration, Boris Petrov, suggests raising tariffs for private entrepreneurs in the markets, at a time when the government of Timoshenko reduced these taxes. An area of hops. There was a tax despondency working for a week, and that ended with the huge fines being paid to entrepreneurs. Now they're not able to pay them and they're not just about survival, they're just about the total bankruptcy of these people. Kiev. The Kyiv authorities begin redistributing the MAFs at the direction of the government of Azarov. This will further worsen the position of renters of small kiosk owners because there is a redistribution of the market. In Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u71	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u72	In Chernobyl, entrepreneurs came out with slogans: “Where are the tax holidays?” instead of just the pressures of business. It's also in the Mikolai district. Theoretic answers and practical facts are somehow very different. Where are we going? Do you know about this and what you are doing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u73	First of all, I want to say again, now that we're preparing new approaches to a simplified tax system, we've done research on why these studies have been confirmed both by the Enterprise and the Tax Administration. And what did they testify to? Those legal persons who work on a simplified system pay more taxes than those legal persons who work on a common system of taxation, who do the same activities, took restaurants, took barbershops, and so on. That is, if one of the taxpayers now destroys the simplified system and primarily legal persons, it will reduce tax revenues. That's exactly the kind of axiom for me. What is involved in all of these? You know very well, I understand the political risks that today's authorities are taking all these steps, because taxpayers are now practically working on other terms completely before what the President said. The president left it alone yesterday and said so in his speech. I think we'll sort things out soon. I'm not saying there's no such thing today, we're working on it, and we're going to try to put things right. I think it's tax administration issues, it's a tax violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u74	Thank you, Sergey Leonidovich, time is up, please sit down. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of an hour of questions to the government about the state and prospects of business development in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Friday, we have 30 minutes to make inquiries. Let me announce the questions that have come from the national deputies of Ukraine. Requests were received from: Irina BELIEF to the President of Ukraine about the raiding of state property - nonresidential premises of the Kyiv Central Universal Shop. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:07:22]] For-188. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:07:43]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Gregory OMELČENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Heads of Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a list of representatives from the deputy factions to be included in the Special Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the investigation of the actions of President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine, which contain signs of crime and consider the removal of him from the post of President of Ukraine in the order of impeachment. ARSENIA JACENJAK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine to address the urgent problems of the inhabitants of Sevierodoneck and some nearby villages. Andrija SKILLY to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the legality of the transfer of the fire section from the Galician district of Lviv, the use of the territory under construction and the possible negative consequences for the historic part of the city. Vassila GREECE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the illegal activity of the former Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Lieutenant General of the Police, Vladimir Homenka, one of the leaders of the Political Party "Front Change". Vassila HARA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to respond to the results of the audit of the Court of Auditors on the use of budgetary resources for prevention and treatment of cancer. Victor KORJA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the use of appropriate response measures regarding the illegal placement of kiosks for the sale of food and alcoholic beverages alongside educational institutions and the ban on daily sales of alcoholic beverages at bars. Vladimir DANILENA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the study of aspects of such a phenomenon as "black sand" and the initiation of the development of a National Environmental Target Program to address the issue of "black sands". Eugene ZARKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on the illegal placement in the Hall of guerrilla glory of the Kyiv Memorial complex "National Museum of History of the Great Homeland War 1941-1945" exhibitions dedicated to the UN-OPA. Igor ŠAROV to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to modernize the coal mine complex of the country, with the aim of effectively developing the coal sector in 2010. Igor ŠAROV to Prime Minister of Ukraine on inadequate funding in the provision of insulin to diabetics. Caterina VASCHUK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on delays in the recalculation of the budget for the Lutsk electric company for the transport of passenger credit categories. OLEGO ZARUBINSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of adequate conditions for Ukraine to stimulate the birth, raise the child and protect its rights. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution to the problem of drinking water supply in the apostolic district of the Dnipropetrov region, which has run out of water. Alexander KEMENYACHA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide funding for the technical equipment programme of the National Council of Ukraine National Monitoring Centre for Television and Radio to ensure proper monitoring of compliance with the requirements of advertising legislation. Paul KILLY to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the extraordinary situation that took place at the National Television Company of Ukraine. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the constitutional rights of 51 inhabitants of the city of Equine, who invested in the construction of housing at the address of the city of Equine, the street of Soborna, house 283. Vladimir YAVORIYSKA to Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Seminozhenko of Ukraine on the attempt by Dmitri Tobacco to bring world literature to an extent where the Russian would occupy three-quarters of the educational process, bringing all the acquisitions of world literature only to Russian, rejecting foreign classicalism, and continuing the policy of destroying Ukrainian education and humanitarian space. Mr. Eduard PRUTNIK to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, State Committee of Ukraine from Land Resources, Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the request of the entrepreneur Alexander Hlebov for the non-admission of illegal absorption and the seizure of agro-enterprises in the Talalaiiv and Serb areas of the Chernigian region and the blocking of the economic activity of the private agricultural enterprise Sokirinska. Valeria BARANOVA to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for the continuation of the construction of a highway through the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye. Valentina MATWEYEVA to the Head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine, in fact, has not resolved for two years the issue of the blurry of television technology that came from Japan for the technical resupply of district television companies. Vassila GREECEA to the first deputy of the Head of State Tax Administration of Ukraine, prosecutor of the city of Kiev, on the facts of smuggling into the territory of Ukraine of polygraph equipment for the production of holographic protective elements. Vladimir DENILENKA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the protection of environmental safety and constitutional rights of residents of the Mid-Bud region of the Sudan and the disposal of more than 900 tons of unfit and banned pesticides that are stored in unprotected premises. Vladimir KOZAK to the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine on the systematic gross violations of urban legislation by the Society with limited responsibility for the CP Central Market in the territory of Lake Market in the city of Dnipropetrovsk and the inaction and non-application of response measures by the authorities. To the head of Ukraine’s Security Service, Vladimir YAVORIYSKA, in the face of pressure and intimidation from the administration and students of the Ukrainian Catholic University, the Ukrainian Security Service, with the aim of preventing students from participating in peaceful protests, which is the first sign of the beginning of the resurgence of the Cambodian era. Irina BREAKDOWN to the Head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the Chief Audit and Audit Office of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the requirements of effective legislation while increasing statutory capital through the additional issuance of shares of the Open Share Association of the Kyiv Central Uniwerg. Mr. Jurya Grimczaka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, for a violation of the guarantee of inviolability of the judge of the Kalinsky District Court of Donetsk Alla Ivanova. Oleksa ZARUBINSKI to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the violation of antimonopoly legislation and antitrust policy of the cable company in relation to the Chinese consumers of its services. Edouard PRUTNIK to the Minister of Economy of Ukraine, the Minister of Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the request of the Association of Financial, Industrial and Trade Enterprises of the Danish Financial and Financial Centre for the use of effective measures to prevent the inefficient use of public funds and to eliminate the requirement of tendering by the State-owned firm Selidivogil, which could lead to significant losses for the State and to halt the operation of the central enrichment factories "Comsomolska", "Ukraine" and "Russia", as well as the failure of a renegotiated tender from the same subject of trade in the face of the current legislation, which was appointed on 9 June of this year. Ms. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the examination of the facts set out in his address to the management of the Open Shareholder Society Hotel Slavutic regarding the activities of the judge of the Primorski District Court of Odessa. Jury CARMAZINA to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of attempts to exert pressure on the Rector of the Ukrainian Catholic University, an officer of the Ukrainian Security Service, with the aim of limiting the implementation of the student constitutional rights of the institution to peaceful meetings and the free expression of views, the use of appropriate response measures. Jury CARMAZINA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the examination of the facts of inactivity, service negligence, gross violation of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine in the examination of parliamentary appeals of 15, 18, 22 December 2009, No. 984, 1006, 1023, according to the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region, the management of the Brovar City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region and the Brovari Interregional Prosecutor's Office, the establishment of a comprehensive commission for the examination of the activities of the authorities and the resolution of the issue of criminal offences, the use of appropriate measures to address violations of Ukrainian legislation, the involvement of perpetrators in accountability. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the activities and omissions of law enforcement officials, violations of human rights and freedoms and citizens. [[KOSTENKO, HONEY, JJDJECK]] GREGORY TO THE U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the criminal offence against President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine and the legal evaluation of his actions that have signs of crime. Mr. Vladimir PHILIPPEN to the Attorney General of Ukraine for his unsatisfactory consideration of the MP’s appeal. ON THE abuse by the Ukrainian State Committee of land resources in the area of licensing of landowners. Helen ŠUSTIK to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take measures aimed at ensuring the independence of judges. [[on the illegal collection of information concerning judges by the National Bank of Ukraine]] TO THE Attorney -General of Ukraine, Paul MUTCHANA told the authorities of the city of Mikolayev that they were defending their legal rights to obtain information in the national language. Sergey CRAPOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the rights and legitimate interests of the electorate of the village of Jurívka, the Juri district of Dnipropetrovsk, by the director of the association with limited responsibility of the "Novogrivski" in part of the arbitrary and illegal transfer of property. Mr. Vladimir PHILIPPEN to the prosecutor of the Lviv district regarding the raiding of the Open Shareholder Society Sortnasinniewicz. Ms. Gordijenka's delegation to the head of the Poltava District State Administration, the head of the Cherka District State Administration, the heads of the Orzické, Semenów, Globin County Administrations of the Poltava Region and the head of the Cherkobai District State Administration of the Cherkas region on the need to withdraw the consents signed by the former heads of the local administrations, on the establishment of the National Natural Park "Lowernosulski" in subordinate areas such as those given in spite of the categorical disagreement of the territorial communities of Orzické, Seminiv, Globin district of Poltaw region, the Black Seabay region of the Cherka region and in contravention of the current legislation of Ukraine. Thus, honourable national MPs, 72 questions have been made. Ladies and gentlemen, the question “Parliamentary hearings on budgetary policy for 2011” is under consideration. Reporter – Minister of Finance of Ukraine Jarosenko Fedir Aleksiyovich, co-rapporteur – Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Derkaz Mikola Ivanovich. Feder Alexiyovich, please have 10 minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u75	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! I'm presenting you with a project of basic fiscal policies that define the orientations for the functioning of the state finance system next year. The budgetary process is based on the principles of systemivity and consistency, which foresee the implementation of concerted, coordinated budgetary policy measures, based on the strategic perspective and the development of the positive trends established by the State budget for 2010. Accordingly, the 2011 budget policy mission will be to ensure the level of welfare of citizens and economic development that will allow Ukraine to join the 20 most economically developed countries in the next 10 years. This mission, proclaimed by the President of Ukraine, is supported and shared by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Government of Ukraine and aimed at meeting the demands of the Ukrainian society to create a rich and effective state. It is proposed to set these budgetary policy objectives for 2011: further sustained economic development, transition to its investment and innovation model; increasing social standards for citizens; promoting price and exchange rate stability. The targets are based on the implementation of the 2010 State Budget, by which we stabilize state finances, remove the negative impact of the factors imposed on us by the previous government, and ensure that the economy returns to steady growth. In the implementation of fiscal policy, the government is geared towards the development of such national values as social protection for citizens, sustained economic growth, systematic social renewal, support for the development of basic economic sectors, successful implementation of infrastructure projects, stable and efficient financial and tax systems. Both the mission and the systems of values that will be targeted by budgetary policy in 2011 are completely devoid of ideological coloring. These are simple and understandable things that every Ukrainian citizen today demands, no matter what political power he maintains. This will be achieved by innovative methods of managing government finances that are based on budgetary policy in the current and coming years. They are aimed at getting the most positive effect from the planned actions. In 2011, it is proposed to set the main indicators of the state and consolidated budgets: maintaining a budget deficit of not more than 4.5 per cent of GDP; fixing the share of the reallocation to GDP through a budgeted level that does not exceed the 2010 forecast rate and not more than 30.5 per cent of GDP; maintaining a government debt of not less than 40 per cent of GDP; and setting the growth expenditure to the current 13-14 per cent of GDP. The policy of further strengthening the financial security of local budgets, expanding their income base, and economic stimulus will be preserved. In order to ensure the successful implementation of the planned measures in 2011, the following key decisions will be proposed in the public finance system: a sound and efficient tax and budgetary policy, social orientation, infrastructure programmes, rational borrowing and transparency of their use, development of the public finance system, further reduction of the government budget deficit, financial security of local budgets, and expansion of their resource base. Comprehensive implementation of these decisions will ensure a synergistic effect on the mutual impact of their results, and the cumulative positive result will be the maximum. Tax and budgetary reforms are essential prerequisites for the successful implementation of fiscal policy in 2010. Tax policy provides for the adoption of the Tax Code, which aims at building an effective tax system and allows the necessary resources to ensure the performance of the functions of the State and to improve the efficiency of public administration. In public policy, tax reform is a necessary step towards a systematic renewal of social relations, innovative economic development and a decent standard of living. The existing tax system is characterized by problems such as: a significant level of tax burden on the economy as a whole, a lack of an economically sound balance between fiscal and regulatory tax functions, a non-rational tax system, a low level of tax culture. This makes it incapable of responding to external and internal challenges, such as the global financial and economic crisis, the non-competitiveness of the tax system, the inadequacy of the EU requirements, the significant social problems, the tinning of the economy and corruption, the lack of the society's strategic confidence in tax services. The tax reform product will be an up-to-date, competitive tax system that will meet the best world standards and will ensure that conditions are created for the revitalization of entrepreneurship, a reduction in corruption, an increase in public investment in human capital, an increase in society's trust in tax service and the public finance system as a whole. The reform of the tax system will take place in the following directions: reform of the system and methods of tax administration and the congregations; democratisation of the State Tax Service in Ukraine; improvement of the partnership between taxpayers and control bodies; increased tax associations in the formation of separate tax policies; and effective protection of the legitimate rights and interests of taxpayers. A number of innovative tax mechanisms will be proposed to help achieve the goal of reform. In particular, non-effective taxes that only create additional administrative burden on payers will be abolished; there will be a gradual reduction in the value added tax and income tax; new effective tax administration methods, including electronic documentation, have been introduced; a simplified tax system has been set up to ensure that small businesses are supported and not used to minimize tax liabilities by large taxpayers. These and a number of other measures will be the basis for a successful introduction into tax reform. At the same time, tax improvements will also take place to improve customs policies in order to ensure the adaptation of Ukraine's legislation on the issue of peaceful taxation to EU legislation, in particular the non-admission of tariff benefits and preferences on a sectoral basis; the improvement of methods of monitoring the correctness of the determination of the customs value of goods; and the increase of customs payments to the budget. The system of governance of state property and corporate rights will be improved in order to improve the efficiency of its economic relevance. Much attention will be paid to improving the pension system. A number of measures aimed at reducing the Pension Fund, the Pension Fund’s deficit and simplifying administrative procedures for social insurance payers are envisaged. At the same time as the system of public finance resources is improved, the expenditure management sector will be improved, and will be implemented through systematic changes to the Ukraine Budget Code. The objectives of the budget reform are balanced governance of Ukraine's continued development on the basis of a national value system, improvement of budgetary policy at all levels, efficiency assurance, effective transparency and non-corruption of budgetary resources. Improving the institutional system of government finance management, strengthening the relationship between economic, budgetary, tax and monetary policies will be the means to achieve these goals. Furthermore, changes in budgetary legislation are taking place in the following directions: ensuring the financial autonomy of local budgets, implementing medium-term budgetary planning and developing a software and target method.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u76	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u77	and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u78	Do you have everyone? Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u79	Particular attention is paid to reforming the system of inter-budget relations. In this direction, there is an increase in the amount of inter-budgetary transfers in state budget expenditure, an increase in the innovative potential of local budgets, a systematization of local executive and local self-government remittances, an expansion of the local budget resource base and a number of other financial security measures, strengthening local self-government, socio-economic development of regions and increasing their innovative potential. Ukraine's State Budget Act will be based on these approaches: the main budget managers will identify the institutions that are authorized to provide for the activities of the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, ministries, other central bodies that are defined by the Constitution of Ukraine and other budgetary institutions. It is also proposed to specify protected expenditure articles in the 2011 budget. The State budget allocation in 2011 for the general and special fund will follow the following principles: review and optimize the list of sources of filling and appropriate directions for the use of the funds of the special fund with a view to reducing its share in the State budget; inclusion in the special fund defined by the laws of Ukraine; and legal and regulatory acts of the Cabinet of Ministers. The 2011 budget will be built on a realistic macroeconomic basis, whose parameters are now being budgeted by the government and will be aligned with international experts. The State Budget 2010 and 2011 will make mandatory improvements to social standards. In particular, the minimum wage and the tariff rate will be increased for the employees of the first level of the Single Tariff Network. The implementation of all budget policies in the eleventh year will lead to a positive outcome in the development of the national economy and in raising living standards for Ukrainian citizens. The proposed measures are balanced and coordinated, based on their outcome and optimal implementation strategy. I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the government's proposal and to endorse the 2011 budgetary policy guidelines as a road map for the further implementation of an effective state budget policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Please sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance. Names of the National Deputies, please. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u81	Dear Fedor Alekseevich, you know, it's a pleasure to see the publicity of power. Yesterday, the President delivered a fundamental historical report on reforms, profound reforms for ten years. The Government, the Ministry of Finance, on time adopts the budget, on time adopts the Social and Economic Development Programme, on time submits and adopts the Basic Directions of the Budget Resolution, thereby demonstrating to society that the Government and Minfin will not manage the finances manually, and that there will now be no questions for society: where do they share 100 billion? Now they're saying there was a small business to help. Even if at least half of the 100 billion who have broken up, who are now looking for international auditing, if they do, then perhaps our small business would be raised up, I don't know, to heaven. So I have one question: will we be able to adopt the Tax Code and base it on next year's budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u82	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. I want to show you that there's already a draft Ukrainian tax code, and I took it with me. The government is taking steps to further develop it, and the 2011 budget will be taxed on a new already tax base, taking into account all the proposals that will be made by you at the time of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u83	Vladimir Moisik refers the right to question Paul Zebrovski, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u84	Pavel Žebrovsky, “Ukrainian Platform”. Feder Alexiyovich, in principle, looking at 40 percent of the government debt that you're writing down as one direction, or does it have a state-guaranteed debt? If we take, including, savings debts and so on, we jump away over 60 and, in fact, on the verge of default. Next. You're talking about 30.5 percent of the redistribution because of GDP tax revenue. But if you look at the program that was presented on the website yesterday, the actual reduction in tax burden has been anticipated since 2012. There the only social contribution at the earliest stages is even increasing if added. How do you reduce this redistribution, and you don't do it for 2011, to the extreme extent by program, any tax reductions? On what account will you reduce, and will you not lead the country with additional loans to default if you discount the mandatory, direct and guaranteed government debt?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u85	Thank you very much, very interesting question. I want to answer. I'll give you an example, in 2009, the redistribution through GDP was 31.6 percent, 2010 was 30.9, 2011 was 30.5. And this trend is announced by the President of Ukraine, and the government is doing everything possible to keep this trend positive. On what account? I've presented you with a tax policy system where first and foremost this is going to be the constant economic development of our state. So we're going to have macro-indicators to present to you later, but we're going to have a fairly effective GDP increase and the burden on the economy is going to decrease also by reducing the tax rates that I told you about and the value added tax, and the income tax, and reducing the rates that we're going to make on the local budgets. All of this is going to have a positive effect on the removal of the positive load from the real economy. The second question you asked me. In fact, we are working today to ensure that our debt in the state does not exceed 40 percent. This is a list of all the directions I've been telling you about. And it has a positive trend today because the measures that are being taken are less likely to provide guarantees. If last year has been awarded, declared 75 billion dollars, the government has decided to provide guarantees, this year, in 2010, 45, 30 billion less. Optimization goes on and on. So the government will do anything to ensure that there are no defolits, no financial problems in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u86	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u87	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Fedor Alexiyovich, on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I have asked you very much to complete this bill with the very words “the provision of disabled persons with technical and other means of rehabilitation”. This was projected annually in the budget for these objectives, and this year it is not. It's an anti. Socially speaking, people with disabilities. And two following positions. We think it's important to step up those positions that relate to local self-government. You know, under the law, the State delegates to local governments a large part of the powers, but it does not actually grant, the exercise of these powers, precisely the costs. And a position on lending rural builders to the Own House programme, which has not been funded for the first time in recent years. I'd like that very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u88	Thank you. I even want to add that the proposal you're making will complement that we're going to write "the prosthetics" in parentheses. [[first]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u89	Sergei Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u90	Thank you. Please pass the word to Zarubin Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u91	Oleg Zarubin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u92	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Fedoré Alexiyovich, there are several points in the main directions, I can even say a half-page dedicated to the tax system. In your presentation you also talked about changes in the tax system, I think it's urgent at the moment, because Ukraine holds or holds 181 seats from 183 countries at the expense of time and resources that go into the tax system. It's not just non-intense, it's completely untempered. And by the way, businesses in Ukraine have to pay 147 taxes and congregations, that's what they had to come up with, there's no such thing in any country. In this regard, I have a question for you, but all of this concerns a transparent business, a shadow does not pay taxes and it turns out to be good - mannered, those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u93	Complete the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u94	It turns out that those who pay taxes in good faith are victims of this cumbersome, disorderly tax system. And whoever's in the shadows is very good.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u95	I want to tell you, with these words, to answer the question that the new Tax Code, not the new Code, but the Code, which you will be invited to consider and accept, is a special section entitled "Protection of the rights of taxpayers". And this chapter, it's going to be written that will actually protect tax payers' rights not on paper, but actually. And the President of Ukraine stressed that, and the government is making all these attempts. And some 2,000 years ago, Plato, our ancient Greek philosopher, said that the one who did not create injustice was worthy of honor, and twice was worthy of the one who did not allow these injustices. So our task with you is to create a tax code that would make it impossible for fiscal authorities to do unfair acts with regard to taxpayers. We'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u96	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u97	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”, the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” Honorary Feder Alexiyovich, the 2011 main budget policy project in many positions contains a declarative general character. And the opening statement says that the main macroeconomic indicators will be named when presenting the main directions of budgetary policy in the Supreme Council Hall. So I'd like to hear what are the main macroeconomic indicators? What's the GDP? What is the GDP growth forecast? What's the inflation rate? I understand that the 2010 budget has just been adopted. It may be difficult, but such figures would be welcome. So not just general words, but real figures. And the next question is, when does the minimum wage level in the first tariff rate rate correspond to, how does this apply to legislation?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u98	Well, first of all, thank you for such an interesting question. But what I'm saying is that today we're listening to really basic directions. Today we do not listen to specific things that will be budgeted today. Because we need to do the right research, the consultation, already as the real sector of the economy is developing. We now have very active work going on with all the ministries, departments, world organizations that rate ratings, the state of development of the national economy. And yesterday, the President announced the figures that were named. I just want to do it again. Because we expect real GDP to increase in 2011, not less than 4.8 percent, here. The nominal GDP is going to increase by 16.7 percent at this rate, so it's going to go somewhere, well, 1 trillion, there, 270 billion dollars. Well, I could tell a lot of these things, but they're still numbers that aren't discussed, they're still subject to detailed analysis. And to you, I think we're going to be looking ahead to giving these analytical materials we're going to be working with you both on committees and factions to make you active participants. And the draft budget that we're going to put into your consideration, it's already going to be aligned, I think, with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u99	Feder Alexiyovich, thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. The chairman of the Committee on Budgeting, Mr. Mikola Ivanovich, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies and Invitations! Today’s hearings on budgetary policy are held in accordance with the requirements of Article 33 of the Code of Budgets. The draft budget policy guidelines for 2011 are in line with the requirements of Article 33 of the Budget Code, since they contain government positions in all 11 defined fiscal policies, as reported by the Minister of Finance. An important feature of the project is the concentration of government's intentions on its legislative initiatives, which are necessary for the implementation of budgetary policy next year. In particular, as part of the preparation of the Tax Code, provision is made for the reduction of taxes on income and added value, the introduction of luxury taxes, the organization of public and local taxes and congregations, the improvement of administration of payments, since such offers are long-awaited for the public and the business. Their acceptance is urgent under the present conditions. However, changes to the budget code are expected. The position of the Draft Basic Policy gives reason to expect that all positive work, dedicated and cancelled in the new budget code, will be taken into account and will soon be submitted by the government in the context of budgetary reform to the Supreme Council for consideration by a comprehensive bill on changes to the Budget Code. [[No. 2709]] If the Government expedites the submission of the draft Tax Code and proposes amendments to the Budget Code, the Supreme Council will be able to process them constructively and adopt them by the end of the current session. It will then be reasonable to draft the 2011 budget on a qualitatively new basis, taking into account the further implementation of fiscal and tax reforms. Something about the overall parameters of the 2011 Basic Policy Guidelines project. Compared to the current year, there is a reduction in the level of redistribution of hair products through the budget, a reduction in the government budget deficit, an increase in the volume of development costs overall, and a loan from the state budget. Government priorities next year are overcoming the effects of the economic and financial crisis, creating favourable conditions for domestic production, and gradually moving to an innovative development model. In order to carry out these tasks, the Cabinet of Ministers is expected to present a macroeconomic forecast for socio-economic development for 2011, which is based on a government project of the main policy directions for the following year. At a special meeting of the Committee on Budget Affairs, a government project of the Basic Policies of Budget Policy was scheduled to be considered. However, no such meeting took place on June 3 or 4, due to the absence of the required quorum. Therefore, a draft Supreme Council Regulation on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2011 by number 6485 was introduced by individual national deputies, members of the Committee on Budget Affairs. In this draft regulation, it is recommended that the Government’s main budget policy guidelines for 2011 be approved. But to endorse the Supreme Council's proposals to them. Among the suggestions is one that should be noted. First. The draft State Budget Act should be in line with the basic principles of monetary policy and the State's socio-economic development programme. The other one. Ensure that the budget is forecasted on the basis of actual macro-indicators and actual executions in previous years. Third. Organize the provision of benefits, guarantees and conditions for the material and technical provision of activities to the heads of government authorities and local self-government authorities and courts for the purpose of budget savings. Four. Optimize the expenditure of the main government budget managers and improve the system of evaluation of the efficiency of budget programmes. Fifth. The cost of the state budget for state support for the economy should be allocated to those sectors of the economy that are capable of increasing technical output, increasing productivity and receiving specific benefits in world markets over the medium term. Six. Take measures to approve national social standards and standards for the provision of services to budgetary institutions in the relevant areas. Provide for an additional grant from the State budget to local budgets to compensate for financial security. Seven. Improve the system of compulsory social and pension insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u101	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u102	With the method of increasing the income of the funds concerned and optimizing their expenditure. At the same time, I would like to point out that proposals that require additional budget expenditure or that contain specific expenditure indicators cannot be considered a component of budgetary policy. The main directions of budgetary policy are a policy document that defines the tasks and intentions of the government to draft the State Budget Act for the following year. It is therefore proposed that the draft decree number 6485 be put to the vote. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a question for the committee head? Please sign in. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the information board. Blackwolf, the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u104	Dear Mikolo Ivanovich, as head of the budget committee, I ask, and a member of the budget committee as head of the matter. Do you think, in the 2011 budget, there will be the same violations of the Constitution, Ukrainian legislation, including the Budget Code, which have limited the impact of the Supreme Council itself on the formation, implementation of the budget, and the impact, in fact, on the budgetary committee itself? You know what this is about, including by the distribution of the stability fund and all that. And the second question. Don't you think we should go back to that budget reform that you and I adopted a year ago under the government of Timoshenko, but it was blocked by President Yushchenko, so maybe we should be here? And the third question is illegal removals coming from local budgets, primarily the Kiev budget, which contradict the Capital Act. These are three directions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u105	Very important questions. With regard to the same restrictions, are they repeated? It's in the budget. the direction of budgetary policy, as you understand, is not and cannot be. As for the 2011 draft budget, we will study the draft very carefully with you in the committee. And, of course, if this was beneficial in 2010, individual positions could be challenged and given to the Cabinet of Ministers. If they have not justified themselves during this period, we will certainly regain our responsibilities. This includes the Stabilisation Fund. With regard to the Budget Code. Indeed, the Budget Code has been elaborated on the Committee, submitted. But, you know, he's been committed and we haven't overcome the veto. I said in my statement that the Cabinet of Ministers wished to take the floor because the working group, specialists, experts, scientists and so on had been working for more than three months. And this draft budget code has significantly improved the previous one. There were important positions to strengthen local finances, local budgets, local self-government, you remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u106	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u107	positions that could not be implemented. You remember our point of view, my point is that 15,000 from the budget, bring all the indicators and control them to the central authorities, I think it was premature. With regard to the removal of the city of Kiev. There's a colleague's proposal. We're on the committee. Should I call my colleagues by name? Well, you told yourself, everyone realized it was you, yeah. In short, we will see if we have made a request to the Ministry of Finance on what basis the exclusion has been made and then reported to you in writing, I can answer that question. I don't think there's a problem with the method. Another thing is that the city of Kiev has a rather tense budget, and there are resources to raise revenue in the city of Kiev. There is a need to generate revenue from the budget. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u108	Vladimir Moisik, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u109	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Please pass the word to Zebrovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u110	Paul Zebravsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u111	Pavel Žebrovsky, “Ukrainian Platform”. Mikola Ivanovich, in fact, the budget resolution is always. I don't know why we're in a hurry, because we should actually look at all the committees, then make proposals to the budget committee, and the budget committee should listen to the view of all the committees: both local self-government, and other committees. Today, in fact, you or the committee, more loyally, have proposals only from individual national deputies. In fact, there are no proposals from any committee on the budget resolution, and because of this, this government document is tasking itself, we don't have a government-parliamentary coalition. Not a parliamentary-government, but a government-parliamentary coalition, and in fact today you are simply voting on what the government has submitted, and there is no such normal parliamentary control and parliamentary democracy in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u112	Dear colleague, I would like to inform you that the committee has not been able to prove this because there was no quorum, there were six committees, and there were nine proposals, six of them from the committees, seriously, we have worked, they have entered into a decree, that is acceptable and three from the people's deputies. The deadline was really adopted on the Conciliation Council limited and so forth, but the one who wanted to, believe me, gave it all away. Three and a half pages. You can do it if you want. Who did it, did it. Whoever failed, you can sound today, there are representatives of the government, we can include the transcript if the Supreme Council votes. Thank you. Let's work. I'm the only one who can tell.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u113	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I'm asking a question that just came from a colleague of ours, and I'm bringing it to your attention that the document came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 20.05. I would like to emphasize to you once again: 20.05. Five days to prepare the document is provided. What other terms do we need? We just have to go to work, my dear fellow. And I remind you, the committee on June 3rd. Absent at the meeting of the Committee: 12 representatives of the Party of Regions, 8 representatives of BUTU and 5 representatives of “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. What do you get the money for? Let's move on. You know again, you're a member of the committee, too. So, June 4th, they're re-gathering the committee. Absent: 9 representatives of BUTU, 6 representatives of “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”, 11 representatives of the Party of the Regions. So to whom is this charge? Go to work and make decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, let's call it a 30-minute recess. Or are we going to work without a break? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to put this motion to the vote so that I don't announce a recess for 30 minutes. Finish the discussion, then the other questions, at 1:00 p.m., go to the various presentations. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[11:58:48]] For 241 Decision taken. Please sign up, your honors, to discuss the matter. From the factions, 15 minutes and 15 minutes from the people's deputies, the ranks, so to speak. Please record. May I have the names of the people's deputies? Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Next up will be Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u114	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues are certainly a major benefit to the fact that the Budget Resolution is being considered in the summer, early summer, before the year when the budget is to act on which it will be calculated. It's not only technological, it'll allow us to actually look at the budget that I hope by August 15, as provided for in the Budget Code, is going to be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but also in a meaningful way, because we can figure out what the government is going to do in those or other areas. When I asked the honourable minister of finance, and thank you, I got the answer to that question, it was an accident. Today, according to all international institutions, financial institutions in Ukraine, unlike other countries where there is also a shadow economy, but it is composed, experts know this, up to 17 percent, well, a maximum of 19 percent. We have it, in any case, independent experts -- non-Ukrainian -- say 40 to 60 percent. In that case, of course, the government's financial system, the tax system, whatever, the whole state mechanism, really has to be geared to ensuring that justice is not just in words and not just in declarations. Because it is very unfair to collect taxes, including in advance, as we have it, regardless of the political situation, and constantly, from entrepreneurs to draw them out in advance of those whom we can see, those to whom we can reach the business, those who pay their workers. And there's absolutely no attention in the paws, because the shadow sector, if it wasn't covered by any kind of power, regardless of the political situation, if it wasn't covered by politics, let's face it, it wouldn't exist on this scale. So I think it's right that there's an item in the budget resolution that concerns legalization, the legalization of income and the introduction into circulation of taxation to those who are working in the shadows today. And secondly, in the absence of time, I don't have much to say, this is about the Supreme Council's proposals, paragraph 20: "The cost of the State budget for State support for the economy in 2011 should be allocated to those sectors of the economy that are able to secure growth in the medium term." and so on and so forth. It's absolutely the right thing to do. The only thing I want to know is what are we supposed to say, and what are these areas? So we clearly need to know the hierarchy of these sectors that can re-energize in the medium term and be more productive. First of all, and here we have to say, we have to put agriculture in place, and everyone understands that because Ukrainian agriculture is exclusive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u115	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u116	And it gives a faster circulation, it can resupply faster. That's what we can be different from, including among European societies, natural agricultural products. I suggest that this be included, taken into account, and that the hierarchy of these sectors that we're talking about all the time be clearly written down and known to all society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u117	Jaroslav Jojik, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense". Next is Alla Alexandrowski, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u118	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Obviously, the government, in preparing the budgetary policy framework for the following year, should be based not on virtual situations, virtual ideas, but on the real economic and budgetary situation that we have in our country today. But I would like to remind our colleagues that on April 27th of this year, without discussion in 15 minutes right away in the first, second, third reading, the country's 2010 budget was adopted. The real budget, the real budget deficit of this is estimated by our nation's leading experts at nearly 150 billion dollars. Obviously, this budget also provides for a completely unreal income component of 203 billion dollars of income. What is predicted by an increase of almost 37 percent in income? I mean, it seems like the government has forgotten that the economic crisis that is taking place in our country is far from over. And so, of course, as such an over-income part was, after such a colossal deficit in the State budget had been approved, nothing less than to lead to district tax administrations is completely unreal, higher rates, which are accompanied by very complex processes, essentially, of persecuting the entrepreneurial environment, and can lead to bankruptcy in the Ukrainian economy. So in this situation, by giving very representative figures like this, I think the government is going very far away. First of all, what should we do? Prepare realistic changes to the 2010 budget. And we all remember how today’s ruling coalition was very hard and very often right, rightly criticizing the previous government for its popular position in previous years. But nothing else has been proposed by the ruling coalition today. So I'm going to go to the government again from this rostrum, re-examine the 2010 budget, and then form new budgetary frameworks on the basis of a realistic budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u119	Thank you. Prepare new bases. Thank you. The thought is complete, right. Thank you. Alexander's Alla, please. Get ready for Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, bearing in mind that the budget policy for 2011, as proposed by the Government, aims to create conditions to address the effects of the financial and economic crisis, to implement effective fiscal policies and to move to an investment and innovation model for the development of Ukraine's economy aimed at increasing employment, increasing wages and incomes of the population, and that the Communist faction is largely supported by the proposed document. However, in order to strengthen social protection for Ukrainian citizens, the Communist faction proposes to take account of the following in the main areas of budgetary policy in 2011: where the paper refers to the marginal deficit of the State budget, we propose that the second paragraph should be worded as follows: “Involvement of loans in international financial institutions and individual countries to implement Ukraine's economic and social development projects within the framework of the deficit-defined development budget”. This will enable the Government to obtain additional options to attract loans. Where we are referring to the protected expenditure of the budget, we propose that the following should be made available as part of the list: “preservation of protected expenditure items”. This will be correct because there is some practice, and we know that it is right in this document that these articles should include the payment of the salaries of budget workers, the receipt of salaries, the purchase of medicines for tied materials, the provision of food, the payment of utilities and energy supplies, current transfers to the population, and current transfers to local budgets. A number of articles include: the identification of the cost of protecting public debt, the reform and development of the Armed Forces, the exploration activities, the provision of vitality and explosive fire-safety to arsenals, bases and stockpiles of weapons, missiles and ammunition, the disposal of conventional types of ammunition that are not fit for further storage and use, the addition of disabled persons with technical and other means of rehabilitation, and so on, to the end. For setting the minimum wage. We propose the following wording: “ensure a quarterly systemic increase in the minimum wage of the official tariff rate for the first tariff review of the single subsistence net for all social and demographic groups and the equal provision of a subsistence minimum”. Where social assistance is concerned, we propose the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u121	You can't. Have a seat, please. Melnik Peter Volodymyrovich, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please get used to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u122	Thank you. Peter Melnik, Party of Regions, Kiev Dear colleagues, I think it's symbolic that yesterday you and I witnessed the proclamation of a truly epochal, I confirm the message of the President of our country, whom we haven't heard in a long time, to the Ukrainian people from the mouth of the presidents. That's the first one. And today, I want to confirm that we are considering a timely draft of the main budget policy orientations for 2011, as required by Article 33 of the Budget Code by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to remind you, my dear colleagues, of the conditions in which we accepted the April 27 budget with you, you remember the conditions in the hall. But in economic conditions, under the terms of a financial hole of 94 billion, a declared but unreturned 50 billion dollars ’ value added tax. The accounts of the State Budget of the Pension Fund need to be updated accordingly. More than 3 billion Euro-2012 programmes have not been funded. It's taken directly from the local budget accounts of 7 billion. We have a debt pit, we have a production drop by 2003, if we compare 2009, an internal gross product by 2005. They were right about the shade of the economy, from 39 percent to 60 percent of the economy in the shade. And this manual management led to this, which is the criminalization of inter-budget relations and the criminalization of financial matters. Of course, if you don't accept the new Code of Budget, if you don't accept the new Tax Code, if you don't lower the pressure, of course, on the taxpayer and see a partner in it, then there's no other strategy, of course. But there is this strategy today. We heard it from the President yesterday, we heard a report by Finance Minister Jaroshenko Fedor Alexiyovich, and we haven't seen Parliament for quite some time just the position of the Cabinet of Ministers on the basic budget policy project. Of course, this requires practical work on the budget committee and on all committees of Parliament. I'm calling my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u123	Thank you. You'll talk to him. Please, Paul Mokchan, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Get ready for Jebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u124	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I was so impressed by this document that we are living in a unique world where the sphere of culture is simply removed as part of our lives, as the need for spiritual daily bread. I don't see any point, I've met on page six such points that I'm not surprised, they're perfectly logical in the conduct of today's authority, the introduction of family tax breaks, and I understand that this is family, and we can count on who these benefits will be, for which families they're known in all of Ukraine. Or the creation of a stable legislative base to provide special permits for the use of drama. Where's the Ukrainian book, the Ukrainian film, and actually what's called culture. I can't see, I'm, I've got a lot of claims here, not to Fedor Alexiyovich, but to Mikli Ivanovich, why we were in such a hurry. Well, there were parliamentary hearings, well, there was forgotten, and they formed the list that was necessary for today’s conversation. Those who suggested who did not notice in the world at all, whether they needed to go to the movies, read the book, watch the exhibition, go to the exhibitions that are, whether this political power is at all interested in national life, cultural, spiritual. If we don't see this and, for example, the agrarian sphere, well, it's not clear that Ukraine is too interesting to the world in Europe with its wealth, with its colossal land resources, they're not predictable how we can't invest what gives immediate return for the next year. How we cannot rekindle what was rich in the land. If today it's 10 hectares of cattle, how much cattle do it take not to buy a minabret? It's all the numbers known, incredibly, they're just on the tongue. Agrarians sit here, don't you think you're intruding, don't you? I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, first of all to address this document, and if you accept it, you will now approve of it. Let's not do what we write with. As you suggested, Mikola Ivanovich, then from the transcript we'll join. First of all, pay attention to the culture, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u125	Please, Jebrovsky and Karpuk, 6 minutes. Please. Carmazine, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u126	Pavel Žebrovsky, “Ukrainian Platform”. Dear colleagues, I'm afraid there's no Vladimir Mikhailovich, because he must have forgotten that he's just a national deputy who organizes the job, not moralizes and doesn't point. Because, in principle, there were four representatives on the committee today from "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense," and we wanted to look at these proposals. I have the right to criticize this budget resolution, because also when Timoshenko was passing his budget resolution, and there the wrong things were publicist enough, and I was also standing on this stand and saying that there was a crisis on the street, and there was a crisis that needed to be fought, not told: choose me and it would be good for everyone. After reading the Budget Resolution and leaving the street, Oruel “1984 ” emerges in memory, Oruel, Oruel, yes. The eagle is called differently, the translation, the transcription is different. And as a result, on the street, a business will be destroyed, a business will be destroyed, you come, you turn on a television button — and the ministry of truth tells us how cool it is to live, and in which country we live. And in principle, it feels like you're having a split personality, because on the street, it's actually not so cool. With the economy, it's not so great. Today, indeed, exports, the world economy has warmed up a little bit, exports have increased, as if the economy has grown. In fact, today’s 4 - month consumer demand, according to exercise statistics of 2.7, has fallen by 5 percent of consumer demand in Ukraine. This means that people don't have money, which means that the key investor in the Ukrainian economy -- the population doesn't go to the market and they don't buy products. And it's not even a bell that's serious enough, it's for the Ukrainian economy. And it's clear that when we got the Budget Resolution, we wanted to see those growth points that would focus on a small financial resource that would be available to the state and that would be borrowed, including from the International Monetary Fund, which would give us the game of the Ukrainian economy, so that we could raise social standards and wages, and pensions, and help people with disabilities. In fact, there is just a set of line phrases that go from one budget resolution to another budget resolution. It is impossible to understand what is behind these directions. Because agriculture does not exist in this budget resolution at all, it does not exist in Ukraine, there is no culture, there is no Ministry of Defence, and so on and so forth. Friends, what do we have to say for ourselves? Some slogan is no more or no less. If you look at 30.5 percent of the GDP redistribution I asked the minister about. He said that in 2008 there was almost 31 with something to do; in 2009 - 30.9, 31 almost; in 2010 there would be 30.9. But Fedor Alexiyovich, it's based on the fact that the taxes after 2009 have gone bad and there's not enough money to pay the income tax, including if you look at it. As a result, there are no tax - pressure reduction issues. It says a lot. But right now you're on the President of Ukraine's website, you're reading a reform program, and it says that the reduction in tax pressure will start in 2011, and since 2012, I'm sorry, not in 2011. Let's move on. Social contribution, it says here that only one will be created. But there, in fact, is not a reduction in tax pressure on this issue, but there is an increase in tax burden on wages and other incomes on the population. The increase in luxury needs to be increased, but it will also be before redistribution. The increase in excise duties is also going to be an increase in redistribution. I mean, it's not going to work, Mr. Secretary, it's not going to work, it's going to work, it's going to go down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's going down, it's On the contrary, if this tax system exists in 2011, we will give God, without social funds, we will get 32 percent of the redistribution as a minimum, not 30.5 percent as recorded here. The second question. This has certainly been criticized by the past government, including criticism of an increase in government debt. But this is where the increase is expected. And I was very surprised when Vice-Prime Minister Tihypco spoke, who said that a smaller amount of debt would cover the budget deficit. But in fact, we have a budget deficit that shouldn't be covered by an increase in government debt. Because it's wrong. Because it's about eating money, not pointing it at those growth points that it should be! Today, this is more than just a four-letter letter of the filkin. This is a serious and important task that Parliament is giving to the government, to direct efforts to channel government funds so that you and I can actually do the task and represent the people here. In fact, for today, what we got with you is a government discount for us. If you're willing to vote, if you've turned from a parliamentary government to a government-parliamentary coalition, this is voted in the first reading and in general. To my profound conviction, the coalition would certainly have to accept it. But we need to seriously elaborate on both committees and national MPs in order to actually make this a serious, basic document that we would ask the government of Ukraine at the time of the State Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u127	Thank you, Paul Ivanovich. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine”. Get ready for Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear national MPs, distinguished government officials! Unfortunately, in determining the road map, as the Minister of Finance correctly defined, there is no government in general here today, because the whole government has to work for the Ministry of Finance, all of it! And the whole government has to work on a budget resolution. One Ministry of Finance will only count the money, not earn it. I was surprised to hear today that the coalition, the Party of Regions, the Communists and the “Block of Lithuania” were fully registered in their powerlessness. There's no coalition, it's supposed to be today. Please announce the cessation of coalition activity. If the coalition can't gather and meet for a budget committee, if the coalition today can't respect my rights as a national deputy, because I've filed thirty-fifth. May, I made my remarks to this resolution. I ask you: ‘ Why are they not in the table? Why are you ignoring my rights as a deputy?" Dissolve the coalition, there is no coalition, there is a bluff, and there are “carcases” sitting in our seats today and voting with our cards for which we chose them in the elections, and you introduced political corruption. So stop political corruption! Now let's get to the text. I would like to write instead of the words “the gradual reduction of the corporate tax and the value added tax” in the following wording: “the gradual reduction of the tax rate at the added value for its adjustment and the transition to a 5 per cent sales tax”. I'd like you to keep your eyes open on that Tax Code that we introduced with the National MP, Catherinechuk. I'd like you to know that 12 years ago, Karmazin introduced the Tax Code when the idea of the Tax Code was not discussed at all. Why don't you take the best? Why do you say you'll do something? You won't do anything, unfortunately. Because you are now writing: “Ensure a step-by-step increase in excise duty rates with the aim of adapting tax legislation to the European Union”. And I'll give you a hint, and you'll write this down: “Ensure a step-by-step increase in Ukrainian budget salaries: doctors, teachers, military of all others to adapt people's lives to legislation and European standards.” Write that down, and you don't want to write that down. You also don't want to write down a point to take steps to remove structural distortions in the national economy, inefficient use of material resources, including energy, overriding industries with a small amount of added value, which causes low competitiveness of domestic products. That's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u129	Thank you. Please, Sulkowski gives Pekleshenko the word. Get ready, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! No matter how many laws we adopt, no matter how much we talk about them, they all refer to two levels: laws that have a positive impact on the budget, and laws that have a negative impact on the budget. There are no laws that affect the budget in nature. The most negative laws are laws that go hand in hand with the budget, no matter what noble goals these populist appeals are. It must therefore be truly understood that no law that entails changes in the budget can be adopted if it is not balanced with the income and expenditure of the existing Government. You tell me, then the opposition will never be able to achieve its goals. It can, but it must not be political but economic, financial and budgetary realities. Unfortunately, many laws have been passed by the opposition with only one title in order to signal the efforts of the well-educated opposition. We need to understand that there are no governmental laws of social significance, no opposition. They are either real or populist. The second aspect. A citizen is the main figure in the formation of the budget in any civilized country. They realize that they pay taxes so that children can go to kindergarten and school so that they can be treated, studied, lived, not survived. I repeat, the budget is formed and collected by citizens and society, and we have taxpayers. We have to change this major philosophy. As long as the person in Kiev is budgeting, we can't do anything. There must be a citizen in the budgetary process. To that end, it was necessary to order the Kiev chiefs to counter the logic and mechanisms of interest of the local councils. Do you want to open a garden? Do you want to rehabilitate the school? You don't have a full tax collection in every yard. Save it! Make some money! And all of this will remain on local councils. Another important question. They, the local councils, do not need prosecutors, do not need judges, but the district council must obey the local council. The same applies to health care professionals, firefighters. And whatever you call it, the financial inspector, the tax collector, he should be in the state. Those who collect local taxes should be in the state of local councils. No Kiev official will do what the community does. Right to the community! Then there won't be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u132	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, unlike our colleagues who have been unable to read three pages of the budget resolution in two weeks, the faction of the Ukrainian Company has worked very seriously on this document and has prepared its proposals. Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovska, who works on the budget committee, started for the transcript of reading our proposals, and I want to continue this process. All right. At the place where social assistance is concerned, we propose to write in the budget resolution: “Social assistance depends on the material status of the family”. Where the aid system is concerned, write down the following wording: “Improving the provision of benefits and compensation on a professional basis and on a social status corresponding to the categories of citizens with a view to providing quality budgeting for social needs”. When it comes to increasing support for the birth of a child. We suggest that we write this down in the next edition: “Increasing child birth assistance, child care until it reaches the age of three”. Also: “The restoration of articles 5 and 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the Social Protection of Children of War, taking into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 22 May 2008. Ensuring by adopting legal acts that provide adequate levels of pension for war invalids and participants in hostilities according to their social status. And one more thing I'd like to say and what I'd like to say to the honourable minister of finance. In Ukraine several calls were made by the MP’s efforts to create one of the most perfect legislative bases in terms of social protection for veterans. I want to address you as the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Persons with Disabilities, and as head of the Council of Veterans of Ukraine, with the requirement to be made by the Ministry of Finance, the government as much as possible to implement fully the part of our legislation relating to the social protection of veteranism. Dear colleagues, as head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council, have many references from veteran organizations, individual veterans, to non-execution of current legislation. This is about not fulfilling part of the rules of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, and this is about the Law on the Social Protection of War Children, and so on and so forth. I am very much asking you to make every effort to finance the budget programmes that relate to the social protection of veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u133	Thank you. The discussion is over. Please, Feder Alexiyovich, the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u134	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished ones! I would like to thank you for the parliamentary hearings on the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2011. In my opinion, the ability of the legislative and executive authorities to jointly discuss the strategic development of the country, to find compromises and to make agreed decisions is a guarantee of the success of our programmes and the effective implementation of planned reforms. Today, many responses to the 2011 budget policy outline presented by the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been announced. Responses were acceptable, and critical, were comments and suggestions, did not give rise to different opinions, would be used by the government and the Ministry of Finance to improve public finance policy. I want to make it clear that the position of the Communist faction, which has been introduced today, I want to read only for the transcript that the government supports the proposal on the marginal size of the budget deficit, the article “Involvement of credits from international organisations” in such an edition, is the first: “Involvement of loans from individual countries to implement Ukraine’s economic and social development projects within the limits defined by the deficit of the development budget.” Second, with regard to protected articles on budget expenditure. Complete protected articles: provide for disabled persons with technical and other means of rehabilitation and, in parentheses, prosthetics. Third, with regard to the use of minimum wage. To complement: to provide a quarterly system-wide wage increase, a salary, a single tariff network, a subsistence minimum for all social and demographic groups, and a minimum of living. Fourth, social assistance. To complement: the provision of social assistance, depending on the material situation, further improvements in benefits and compensation, improvements in the provision of benefits and compensation on a professional basis, and social status, to the appropriate categories of citizens, with a view to ensuring quality budgetary planning of expenditure and social needs. Next, increasing child birth care: increasing child birth support, care for the child, and reaching the age of three. Next, ensuring the adoption of legal and regulatory acts to ensure that persons with disabilities of war and those involved in hostilities are properly provided for in accordance with their social status. To achieve this goal, the main policies of the 2010 budget will also be targeted. The document that we discussed with you today will form the basis for the 2011 State Budget. The 2011 budget will be geared towards developing the positive trends already under way in the current year, further raising social standards and improving the lives of citizens, contributing to the development of the economy, its gradual transition to a modern innovation model. It will be another step towards the goal announced by President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine, which requires us today to ensure the level of economic development and the well-being of citizens that will allow Ukraine to take its place in the 20 most economically developed countries of the world. Once again, I thank all those who took part in today's discussion of the main directions of budgetary policy for 2011, and I have made an effort to make them better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u135	Thank you, Feder Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, we will now vote on the draft Decree 6485 on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2011. I would ask for a transcript that, at the second point, where we approve of the Supreme Council's proposals for the Basic Directions of Budget Policy, that is, in the first, we endorse the main directions, in the second, we endorse the proposals: to take into account in these proposals the proposals of the Communist factions, which were made by Alexandrovska and Cibenko, and which the Ministry of Finance agreed with. With these additions, I am voting on the adoption of the Supreme Council Order on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2011. [[Registration number 6485]] Please vote. It's a decree, not a law. In general. [[12:38:18]] For 249 Thank you, the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2011 have been adopted. Please, Carmazine, to express your indignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin. You're right, Adam Ivanovich. I'm really outraged because our proposals are not written-off, our proposals, our opposition, not included in the oral form. In addition, contrary to existing practice, contrary to the Law on the Rules, Adam Ivanovich, you have not allowed this decree to be adopted in the order in which we always make such complex decisions. We accept them in the first reading, then we add them to our content, then the budget committee sits down, and that's all that's accepted in general. So there's a clear violation of the procedure, first. And second of all. Adam Ivanovich, I'd like you to give the task to the regulatory committee right now to clear up and report to the next plenary for the reason that the meetings of the budget committee are cancelled, to inform us. If the reasons are yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u137	We're done. We're done discussing the matter. Let us thank the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economy, the Kabmin workers who participated in the discussion. Thank you. Here we go to the draft Ordinance on enforcement of Ukrainian legislation in the field of culture and sport, Bill 4347. The author of the bill is Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich. I would like to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:40:25]] For 177 Decision taken. Please, two minutes, Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u138	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The decision of Sevastopol in 1949 after the war in the destroyed city built a town’s sevastopol stadium, which still worked. But after the distribution of the Black Sea fleet, he became the property of the Ukrainian Navy as a military town of 257th Street. Bastionni, 29 in the center of the historical barrier near the panorama of the First Defense of Sevastopol. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has refused to cooperate with the military authorities on the joint reconstruction of the stadium's operation and has entered into two notoriously corrupt agreements for the transfer of the stadium to the Bris Nord private enterprise for commercial housing. In doing so, the laws of Ukraine have been grossly violated and ignored: on the use of lands of defence, on physical culture and sport, and on the Order on Information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "On the Conservation of Socio-Cultural Purpose Objects". Repeated decisions of the Sevastopol City Council to refuse permission to change the destination of the land for use under the stadium structure were ignored. A test was carried out. For 14 months, this decree was in the Supreme Council, and it is now out. And we're going to propose that this stadium be transferred to the municipal office, that it be returned to state property, that it be passed to the sevastopols, because next week, Sevastopol is celebrating his birthday, and this week, the Sevastopol City Team passed through the Premier League on time, but it's practicing and performing at other people's stadiums and it doesn't have one. The technical changes I have to make about the dates, I passed on to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Please support this draft decision and transfer the stadium of Sevastopol to the municipal office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u139	Thank you. From the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports, and Tourism, Alexander Viktorovich Zac Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, at its meeting, considered a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the enforcement, compliance with Ukrainian legislation in the field of culture and sport and tourism, at its meeting, on the draft regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on ensuring compliance with Ukrainian legislation in the field of culture and sport, with a view to preventing the destruction of the Sevastopol City Stadium. The Committee supports the proposal made by the Ukrainian people's representative, Kolesnichenko, on this issue for the benefit of the citizens of the city. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the draft regulation and adopt it as a basis. In addition, the Ukrainian People's Deputies believe that it is appropriate to transfer the property complex of the Military Sea Force, the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the town of Sevastopol, to the municipal property of the town of Sevastopol, because there is no means to hold stadiums in public property. Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u141	Thank you. Shall we vote? No, they're desirable. Then, please, two-for-two-again. Please, Pavlovsky, prepare for Baldireva.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I don't understand what this decision is for, the more everything in Sevastopol is completely, by a hundred percent, controlled by the Party of Regions. So in the middle of their power, they can't figure out what the question is. Moreover, the destruction of stadiums is a common Ukrainian problem, let's see what happened in the same Kiev, when the veil was destroyed, the sports pool near Dynamo Stadium was destroyed. They plan to destroy the stadiums of the “Arsenal” factory, the Institute of Light Industry, which is occupied by the section of the left-hand athletic complex, which is not used by purpose. So if you were to make a decision, it would be more serious to deal with the problems of the republican community. And in general, I don't think this problem is even worth looking at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u143	Please, Yuri Baldirev, Rabbit, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u144	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, especially colleague Pavlovsky, apparently did not read the entire text of the project, because there are suggestions to address the problem throughout the country during the period when sports institutions were not always lawful for use for other purposes. It seems to me that we now have the opportunity to show a consolidated position. The opposition has no position to vote against. And I hope that we will now unite with the opposition, because this is a very clear question, it is a question of maintaining a sports structure in the hands of the owner who will use it specifically for the development of sport, for the development of a mass culture, including a mass physical culture, including a child's culture. I appeal to our colleagues from the opposition faction to support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u145	Thank you. Ivan Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u146	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear national deputies, you know, because they voted in the first reading to adopt the Law on the Moratorium to change the purpose of the assignment of lands of recreation, including physical and sports objects. And this bill can already be considered in a second reading. And so we need to impose a moratorium on preventing the destruction of the very sports infrastructure. This is a radical solution to this question. Such examples are millions. In Kiev there is the so-called Kyiv National University of Technology and Design, where almost two acres or more were sold for 14 million dollars for what is called an elite building. [[It's here in Pechersky.]] There's a lot of people running around, and they're resting with moms and little kids. Today, it has come to the point that all the entrances have been closed. Moreover, these entrances to the stadium were poured with concrete, and even the students are virtually invisible there. So this is a national problem. And this national problem needs to be solved from a state perspective. I propose that we put a moratorium on all of Ukraine and then we do a revision of all of these buildings and eventually get into an infrastructure that will allow our children to exercise and engage in sports. As far as this ruling is concerned, I do not understand the point when it comes to referring judges to the High Council of Justice or whatever it is to review the judges ’ decisions in this direction. So such decisions must be made and should be taken with determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u147	Thank you. Please, 1 minute, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u148	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, there's no problem in principle. If we can do something right by one decision, by one vote, and it is obvious that this decision should affect the fate of a particular stadium in a particular town of Sevastopol, this must be done. But colleagues are right in the sense that this is a mass phenomenon, and obviously there should be a ground document, or a universal document, that would make it impossible for such raids. For when the raiding is carried out by one owner against another owner, he will resist. When it comes to such facilities as the stadium, who will resist? The kids who work there? Clearly not. So the right position on the need for mats is a universal, secured document in the form of a law. But if we can do well by one vote, we must do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, Tomenko, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, this is an example of the fact that both our committee and the deputies who want to do better don't read current legislation. I'm here in the session room, in conjunction with my colleagues with Safiullin, Volkov and Tadeev, we first voted on the Moratorium Order, what Ivan Alexanderovich says was voted in 2007. Then, when we are told by the judge and the law enforcement authorities that this is not enough, accept the law. Article 29 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport prevents the retraining of institutions of physical culture and sport, Olympic bases, and so forth. I mean, as in this case, the prosecution has a criminal case to take away. Oh, no? To go to court, that's the mechanism that we have in law, unfortunately we don't use it, that is, ideologically, there's usually no person in the hall that's against protecting the stadium. But my request to the deputies to apply the current rule of article 29 and not to allow ourselves to work through law enforcement authorities because in Kiev, today, about five objects, we are struggling to capture them. So once again, I do not object to such a decision, but friends, we use and fight to the best of our ability not to allow it as provided for in article 29 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sports.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u151	Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, everything. We'll vote. With your permission, Your Honor, Bill 4347, I propose to support the Hare and to take away where it says: "to address the Supreme Court of Ukraine on urgent matters relating to the Sevastopol City Stadium" -- to exclude this, to exclude this. And in view of the fact that the decree is already in progress, it is not “until 1 September 2009” but “until 1 September 2010,” not “until 1 June 2009” but “until 1 July 2010”. And in the 4th paragraph, "by 1 September", not "2009", but "2010". The decree is technically two-fourths of a point, so after four. Please. So the 4th is going to be the 5th, the 6th and the 7th. With such amendments, I ask you to vote in favour of the decree and to help Sevastopol. I think others will hear us, so that other cities don't do what Tomenko told us to do. Please vote. Vote. [[12:52:30.]] For 226 Decision taken. But I'm surprised why they don't vote, well, it's the MPs' business. We would now like to hear with you the report of the interim commission of inquiry to verify compliance with Ukrainian legislation during the reconstruction of the National Sports Complex “Olympic”. Unfortunately, once again, the deputy head of the commission, Philenko, is asking to move the report, but, but. We created this commission on May 19, 2009, for only three months, then we continued our work and decided to report by May 19. Unfortunately, the commission failed. And I see it's the second time we've put it in and we can't hear it. Therefore, in connection with this attitude of the commission toward my activity, I announce that the work of the commission has been closed, which has already exceeded all deadlines. I now propose to consider two bills, 4149 and 4235, which are amendments to the Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law. Please support the proposal for a shorter procedure and a consolidation of these two bills. Please vote [[12:54:04]] For-182 Supported. Please, from the Committee on Two Bills: Head of the Committee on Health, Baychev Tetjana Dmitrovna. Four minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u152	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the Committee of the Supreme Council for Health Care, discussed this project at its meeting on June 16, 2009. With the aim of establishing a decent attitude towards health workers and increasing the attractiveness of their profession, it is proposed to legally strengthen the obligation of Ukrainian citizens to respect health professionals who provide them with preventive diagnostic care. You know very well that the medical situation in Ukraine is very unsatisfactory, it's also a low salary for medical workers. The health - care deficit accounts for 20 percent of health workers and 18 percent of doctors. The prestige of a doctor’s profession is steadily declining. Almost all medical schools do not select students. In Ukraine, there is a catastrophic shortage of pediatricians, firefighters, and rural medicine. Honorary colleagues, the legislative initiative of our colleague Hennadia Samofalova, is aimed at solving the current health problem associated with cases of medical workers being attacked by aggressive patients, drug addicts, and mentally ill people. First of all, it should be noted that such a rule is already regulated by a higher legislator in the Constitution: 21, 51, 43 articles of our Constitution. Ukraine’s legislator also regulated the responsibility of those who violate medical professional rights. However, these words: “the Ukrainian citizens are obliged to respect the medical professionals who provide them with preventive and medical and diagnostic care” also require clarification regarding the term “medical professionals”. But we, our committee, propose to adopt this bill as a basis for our first reading and to entrust the Health Committee to work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u153	There's no question, 'cause it's a short-circuit procedure. Next bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! On June 16, 2009, the committee also reviewed Samofalova’s project to address health problems for medical and pharmaceutical workers working in public and municipal health institutions. It's proposed that you have the right to receive medical, socio-psychological assistance at work. The level of social protection of medical and pharmaceutical workers, compared with those of other professions, is extremely inadequate. The disease of health workers increases every year and exceeds the average of other professions. The health of health - care professionals is affected by contact with patients who die. In such a case, the doctor often fails to see the positive results of his efforts to save the patient, and he does not rarely feel his own powerlessness. It's cardiovascular disease, it's neurosis, it's stenocardia, it's gastrointestinal tract disease, it's low medical pay for both doctors and nurses, it's huge responsibility, it's medical staff who are prone to high occupational risk of infection with viral hepatitis, HIV infection, tuberculosis. The medical staff is in constant contact with medical and disinfectants, which poses a danger of allergic and other diseases. In doing so, the health care system is almost entirely free of prevention and restrictions on the negative impact of psychophysical factors on the health of medical personnel. The Committee believes that the proposed legislative rule does not duplicate existing legislation but develops constitutional norms. In this way, the committee also proposes a bill on adoption as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u155	Thank you, Aunt Dmitry, sit down, please. Shall we vote? Please register for discussion: two for, two for, two for against. Please, Moses, hand over Karpuk. Carpucha microphone. Get ready for Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u156	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”, a parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” We should thank Hennady Grigorovich Samofalova as a member of the Committee on Health Care for his contribution in order to increase, indeed, the respect of health workers in society. Yet, as Tetjana Dmitrovna said, there are many questions to be solved. Yet there is a new draft, a new version of the Health Law, where these are taken into account. There is also a draft Law on Social Protection for Medical and Pharmaceutical Workers, where these things are also included. Thus, such cosmetic adjustments cannot change the situation in the country. And we will hear what the first bill says: “The citizens of Ukraine are obliged to respect medical professionals.” How, though, can we determine if there is disrespect, respect, or disrespect? These are moral standards, generally accepted moral standards, so there are a lot of questions here, if you accept it, you can only take it as a basis. As for another bill on getting medical and socio-psychological help to the workers in the establishments where they work. Of course, the medical field is one of those where the greatest responsibility is, where the enormous psychological stress, especially in modern conditions, when the Constitution guarantees free medical care and the inability to provide it. However, it is not possible for health - care workers in their workplaces to implement the practice of providing psychological assistance. And here we have to agree with the Science and Technology Administration, for example, how to provide psychological assistance in a narcotics, a circulatory dispensary, a forensic office, or a pathological anatomical office, to introduce additional positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u157	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u158	Therefore, we can really agree with these suggestions. The first one can be taken as a basis, and the others can be set aside for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u159	Thank you. Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u160	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that a member of the Samohla committee really had good intentions and, as I understand it, he put them in two bills. But I can tell you that it's not just cosmetological attempts, it's just a mockery of the workers of the field at the moment. Consider what is being offered. It is suggested that every Ukrainian citizen treats the work of a medical worker with dignity. First. Second, it is proposed in the second bill that in the event of an emotional or physical exhaustion, the medic had the opportunity to obtain socio-psychological help on the spot. Bravo! Well, I don't know what else to call it in a situation where from April 1st of this year, just in the middle of 100 days of "success," the wages of a medical worker, for example, a paramedic and a paramedic, an operating nurse and a guard are absolutely equal, and the difference in pay between a doctor in the tenth category, in a single tariff grid, and a plumber, do you know how many? One hundred and forty-eight dollars. Dear national MPs, 148 grevens are in the area of 3 kilograms of meat. This three kilograms of meat is today's coalition and the government is the price of higher health education, it's the cost of a doctor's job, a life-saving specialist! It is the price of the empty promises that come true! So, of course, you can adopt such laws that if a doctor becomes ill with tuberculosis in a tuberculosis factory, he has the right to receive medical and social assistance to make it a little easier for him. But it's just a mockery of the real need of the field. I'm going to vote in the first reading, because it's better than nothing. And because “nothing” was in the programming principles of Janukovic and today in the Budget Resolution. Zero on health care in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u161	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Health Protection. [[Registration number 4149]] Please vote. [[13:04:11]] For a hundred and 189, not supported. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending article 77 of the Ukrainian Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law. [[on the provision of medical and socio-psychological care to health workers]] [[Registration number 4235]] Please vote. [[13:04:50]] For 204 203. Bills are rejected. Yes, dear colleagues, although, indeed, I support and am in solidarity with those. It would be good if we accepted them, but there's no big deal about not accepting them, because they're declarant in most cases. Yeah, let's move on to the most interesting. Please write on “Victane”. Yes. No, she didn't, because Rabbit first. So, dear colleagues, with your permission, I'm going to continue my sessions for five minutes, i.e. we're going to be looking at "Variance" for exactly an hour. [[We'll finish at 2.05 p.m.]] John the Rabbit, “Our Ukraine”. Prepare Sergey Snail. And Kostenko's handing it over. Six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u162	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to very dangerous processes for our nation, which, by all accounts, the present ruling authority not only is not restricting but, rather, tolerates. It's about entering a foreign, primarily state, capital in Ukraine and controlling a whole range of strategically important enterprises, even whole industries. An example is the transfer of Russian capital under the control of metallurgical combinations. The media has repeatedly reported that Alchevski and Dniprovski Metcombinates are already controlled by Russian structures close to the “Vyjszekonbank”, the head of the supervisory board of which is Prime Minister Putin. Today, media outlets report that the Mariopolski Metcombinate of Ilić and other companies that are similarly drawn to Russian around the state or state structures are in turn. I am surprised that the ruling authorities are not in a hurry to put up such a stretch of strategically important enterprises for Ukraine. If Janukovich’s regime does not recognize this danger from an inconsolable experience with sugar factories or milk factories, it will learn from foreigners where effective mechanisms are proposed to limit the entry of foreign capital controlled by foreign governments. In democratic countries, there are special warnings about what is called sovereign, or investment. investment funds, i.e. funds owned by a foreign government capital. No civilized country would have launched such a structure as the WTB. Why? Because they're looking at the coming of capital as a non-market relationship. The thing is, when you start a capital that's controlled by foreign governments, it means that you're allowing decisions not from market positions, but you're allowing decisions of a political nature, and these decisions will be made by other states. Thus, no civilized state will take such steps. If you analyze the penetration of Russian capital into Ukraine, especially in the basic fields, especially in chemistry and metallurgy, it's very different for us to look at the Kharkiv, so-called, gas-sea agreements. The thing is, both the government and President Janukovic are telling us that Russia has reduced the price of gas by $100 per thousand square. Cubic meters. In fact, nothing like this has happened. The Russian authorities did not reduce the price of gas by a single cent, but they split it apart. If today’s price was to be $337, they said that the Ukrainians now had $237 to pay, or living money, and $100 per thousand cubic metres is being set aside for the debt of the Ukrainian State. And since the government has agreed to purchase 40 billion cubic metres of gas per year in Russia, four billion dollars per year will be recorded in Ukraine’s debt. And in ten years, he's going to have $40 billion. What would a civilized country do in such a situation? She would tell citizens and businesses that not a foreign state, in this case not Russia, would lower your price for gas for businesses, but the Ukrainian state, because she put it into her own sovereign debt, and every Ukrainian citizen would have to pay for it sooner or later. That's why we translate this debt, we do it as a corporate debt, and that's what we're doing in debt to these companies. And for these costs that you've cut today, please hand over the shares to the state. And in the event that this deal is broken, you can sell these shares and pay the Russians back. That's what a civilized state would do. And the non-civilized state doesn't have enough money to give to its oligarchs, so today it's giving better conditions for foreign capital, because when we say that foreign Russian capital today starts ruling in metallurgy, ruling in the chemical sector, that is, in enterprises that are the main consumers of gas, so in fact, our government is funding profits for foreign capital. This is the essence of this agreement of the Harkowese gas and the Black Sea fleet. Not only did Ukrainian citizens win nothing but they ended up in a cabal of $40 billion, at least. And Ukrainian businesses won't have the conditions that President Yanukovic is talking about today and the government is talking about today. So, honourable national MPs, we need to take a number of steps at the legislative level. First of all, we have to adopt a law that makes property transparent until the end owner, whether it's a private owner, or whether it's a state structure. The second thing we have to do is adopt a bill and ban the sale of shares and privatization of foreign capital with national nature. And the third thing we have to do is adopt a law that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u163	Thank you. Yes, Hrapov and Matthew are passing on the word to Gordijenko, six minutes, please. Get ready for Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u164	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Residents of the Orgitsky, Seminowski, Globin district of the Poltav region, and the Black Oboe region of the Cherkas region! Under your insistence, I appeal to the heads of the district and district administrations on the need to withdraw the consents signed by the heads of the previous local administrations on the creation of the National Natural Park of Lower Sulian. The problem is that despite the categorical disagreement between local councils and citizens, the previous President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, was signed by Decree No. 155/2010 on the creation of the National Natural Park “Lisniosulski”. Its signature was preceded by months of attempts by local administrations to persuade and intimidate the local authorities of these areas in order to make decisions on the initiation and approval of citizens, the councils for the establishment of such a park. There have been numerous sessions of local councils, rural staircases, but the agreement of the territorial community to create a national natural park in their territories has not been given. What is more, the territories are the customers, and the functions that rely on the national parks themselves are virtually identical. The citizens' initiative in the areas was to collect signatures against the inadmissibility of the creation of the National Natural Park “Posniósulski”. It was only in the Cherkas region of Chernobyl that several thousand signatures were collected, as reported by the district and district authorities. In the absence of appropriate agreement and ignoring the decisions of the territorial communities, the previous heads of the local administration signed an agreement on this matter. On this basis and contrary to the provisions of the Local Self-Government Act in Ukraine, this law was passed on to Ukraine's natural-intelligence fund. Adopted at the end of Yushchenka’s cadence, he, like many other strange decrees, caused a great social resonance in the regions noted. People rightly point out that the opinion of the territorial communities and people for the local leaders and the highest officials of our country means nothing. They see this as a threat. From the next lease to these lands, private structures and the denial of access by the local population to the original natural areas. We have enough examples of this, which is worth just the events of last year. As a result, I ask you to carry out an additional thorough examination of the rightfulness of granting such consent by the previous district and district administrations, contrary to the will of the territorial communities and the population living in these areas. Call them back and violate the concern for the President of Ukraine about the lifting of President Viktor Yushchenk's decree of 155\2010 on the creation of the Nizhnosulski National Natural Park. This will contribute to understanding and enhancing the authority of local, regional, and state authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u165	Thank you. Isaiah and Jaroschuk, referred to as Koleschenko, is now 15, that is, he has the opportunity to speak, nine minutes after which Stojko will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u166	Thank you, fellows! Dear voters! Respectable citizens of our country! Yesterday, in his address to the Ukrainian people, the President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic, placed clear priorities in humanitarian policy. For the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, these priorities are devoid of any ideological engagement and are based solely on the priority of human rights and the vision of Ukraine's future as a democratic, legal and social State based on civil society institutions. Viktor Janukovic became the first President to honestly note the humanitarian crisis in the country, which resulted in the wars of monuments, the rewriting of history, the accusation of generations of having somehow failed to live their lives, and the humiliation of language. The President of Ukraine understands clearly that the challenges of economic and civilizational modernization facing Ukraine can only be met if the humanitarian and socio-cultural sphere is developed. It is the area of humanitarian policy, in the new social political conditions, that is to form the horizons of the future of our country and of every citizen. It is important that the President has again filled the Ukrainian society, that 19 years ago our fellow countrymen supported the choice of democracy, tolerance, modernization, social progress. This course guarantees the identity of the Ukrainian political nation as a consolidated, multicultural community, the development of society through dialogue, humanistic values and tolerance in the creation of a single humanitarian space. A key development in the resumption of the democratic dialogue of Ukrainian cultures, the President established a representative forum for “Ukraine – Cultural Dialogue” in the 11th year. It is in this forum that responses are planned to all emerging inter-ethnic, inter-faith problems on the platform of the common house, Ukraine. The dialogue of culture is a pillar that will truly ensure the uniqueness of our State in Europe and in the world. At the same time, the President defined the fundamental principles of such dialogue, humanistic ideals and values, tolerance, tolerance and accountability. It is essential that the President understand the role of social organizations and civil society institutions in this process. It is on them that the President has entrusted the task of performing part of the functions currently performed by the public authorities. As the leader of the All-Ukrainian Human Rights Movement, I appeal to the leaders of national cultural societies, civil society organizations, to work together to support our President, Viktor Yanuković, in the task of bringing together Ukrainian society. Humanitarian policies will be implemented against the background of the off-block status of the State and broad cooperation with major world States and political associations. A strategic partnership with the Russian Federation will be renewed, with a five-year suspension. In order to fully implement the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, the President mandated the development of a 10-year programme for socio-economic development. Thank you. The second part of my statement is devoted to the order just adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Onkasas would appear to be the Sevastopol City Stadium, but in fact, the draft regulation, which had already been issued by the Supreme Council, indicated that by 1 September of this year the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should verify and inventory all socio-cultural sites that were on the balance of public enterprises and organizations that had been disclosed under the legislation of the former Soviet Union to verify whether they were controlled and used, in whose hands, children's gardens, schools and sports facilities? And if unearmarked use is detected, return them to property, community property. The common unifying values and representatives of the opposition seemed to say how important it was to do so, but no vote from so-called Democrats had been received for the bill. Thank you, Rabbit, the only Rabbit who voted in favour of this bill. This refers to those responsible people who think about Ukraine's future. And I would like to congratulate the Sebastopols on the excellent stadium that was built in the destroyed Great Homeland War city, which will now be the city's utilities and the Sevastopol PFC, which has moved out of the Premier League, will find a great place for training. And our citizens will be able to improve their health and create a colossal sports base for our entire State. At the same time, I would like to tell the people of Ukraine that, of course, the Sebastopols are also thinking about the future of our State not only for the creation of football fields. The Sevastopol City Council has already allocated land and agreed on a project to build an ice palace, we already have a sports school, we have specialized schools for the training of children of hockey players, we have children of figures who take the first, second and second places in Europe also receive medals in the CIS territory. And that is how we celebrate our country, our Ukraine. I appeal to Nikola Janović Azarov to include in this year's programme the financing of the construction of our boat, which will form the Olympic reserve of our State. And at the end of the third part of our problem, Mr. Polochalo. I would like to recall that I have requested the President of the Supreme Council and the Regulatory Committee to bring to justice Mr. Polohal's Chairman of the Education Committee, who has been distributing literally letters on behalf of the Committee, although the Committee has not carried out what it requires: “Despite the social significance of the issues which have been violated, on the basis of the same and the Ukrainian Committees Act, as soon as possible, to consider the establishment of a regional programme to support the State’s and Ukrainian language policies, raising the historical consciousness of Ukrainian citizens. The draft programme, which is added, can be taken as a basis and budgeted for the relevant councils to finance it." Sounds like a good idea. However, no one had approved the programme, no one had considered it, but if you consider what is proposed in the amount of millions of bracelets each city and district council should support Mr. Polohal's idea. At the same time, it is proposed in Sevastopol that the support of a student fraternity, some “fight gopak”, be financed by nationalist publications that cannot be supported in the town of Sevastopol and cannot be supported in Sevastopol by funding, purchasing various discs, celebrating national fascists and bandits. That is why I demand that both the representative of the Supreme Council, Mr. Litwin, and the Regulatory Committee put an end to this protracted conflict. If Mr. Polochalo, as a subject of the legislative initiative, as a deputy and has the right to speak, he should do so as a deputy, but not as a representative of the committee, on the Committee's form, and not on behalf of the Committee. This is the right of city and district councils — what they can do and how they can do it. No one has the right to impose on local self-government what they should do and how they should do in their territory. Therefore, when speaking to the presidents of the district councils, the city councils to whom such a letter has been addressed by Mr. Polochalo, it is null and void from the moment of receipt, I am telling you this as a lawyer. And finally, the end. A party of regions has never opposed the Ukrainian language. It has always advocated the tolerance, mutual respect and support of every citizen of our State who holds that State for its taxes. Only mutual respect, support and mutual understanding will enable us not only to emerge from the crisis but to become one of the best States in Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u167	Please, Stoika Ivan. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u168	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, respected compatriots, John Stojko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Our party expresses its deep outrage over the banditry of the authorities that took place yesterday during a report called the 100 - day position in the Palace of Culture, where Yanukovic reported. For Yanukovich to read his report, everything was covered up in Kiev. Thousands of them were standing in traffic, the very ones that were being used. How can we say that illegal law has been exercised both by the President and by all officials who have left Ukraine? I would like to point out that no one has the right to interfere with people, whether in movement or in mass action. And the representatives of the Party "For Ukraine!" who came out yesterday to pick up Yanukovich, were brutally surrounded by OMON, were trapped for 2 hours by the same pack, I can call it, in a form that, without explaining anything, did everything to prevent people from having access to the Palace of Culture "Ukraine" and to express the positions they were entitled to. When the parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” came, whose representatives wanted to free or release our activists, unfortunately those Jemonovites did not have access to the people, and brutally treated the national deputies who presented their credentials. And that reminds me of the times we've been through during the reign of Leonidas Kuchma himself. 100 days that we are today. What we're talking about in Janukovich's position is 100 days in the past, it's 100 days back to dictatorship, and I can even say it's 100 days of neostalinism that is being reborn in Ukraine today. Will power last long on the boards? I don't think so. And that is why we need to realize today that this cannot continue. We need to understand that if Janukovich and his team do so, not hundreds tomorrow, but thousands, hundreds of thousands of people, will come out to replace this authority. And we need to understand that we are not building Ukraine, more loyally, not building it, but building it. And that is why I hope and hope that other social and political structures will support the party “For Ukraine!” as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u169	They will. Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Have a seat, please. Get ready for Culchin's Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders of Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Is it not the most important duty of the State, as enshrined in article 16 of the Basic Law, the Constitution, to ensure environmental security and to maintain a balance in Ukraine? This duty is placed on the State for the purpose of protecting and guaranteeing the rights of Ukrainian citizens to life and health. I would like to draw your attention to the exacerbation of the problems in the Black Sea Aquarium, and please consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the Ministry of Environment and Environmental Protection, to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, to the Government of Ukraine. Why? Because the most polluted Black Sea in Balaklav Bay was caused by a collector’s storm in 2007. The collector has not been restored so far. Waste and feces dump directly into the sea without any cleansing. There are no protective structures in Balaklav. And to restore the collector, it takes about 400 million dollars that the state can't allocate for three years. At present, contrary to Ukrainian legislation, in the coves of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation and our fleet, the Ukrainian Navy, are throwing fecals and other substances directly into the sea without any biological or other processing. The fleets do not have the means to receive pollutants and water from vessels containing them, without the means to take them from garbage and waste vessels, to place them on waste management sites. They do not clean up their aquariums from pollutants. I would like to say that by ratifying that agreement on April 21st, which was made in Kharkiv between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the issue of the Black Sea Navy, you didn't see that there was no signature of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Why? Because the Black Sea fleet is one of the largest polluting environments in the territory of Sevastopol and Crimea as a whole. These objects have a negative impact on the health of the population, the existence of ecosystems. In Sevastopol Bay, 180 times the concentration of oil products, respected citizens of Ukraine, exceeds the standards! There are also uncleaned sewers. The threat to the environment is borne by half - sunk, rusted warships, submarines of the fleet. But the Black Sea fleet does not comply with established air standards and regulations. Its command refuses to take measures to reduce the emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere, prevents the government’s environmental services from entering their location to study environmental threats and take the necessary measures. Environmental services cannot carry out their duties. The Ministry of Health does not carry out its duties. I would like to ask the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u171	Thank you. Mikola Kulczynski. Get ready for Mutza.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u172	Dear citizens of our Ukrainian state, I cannot help but answer Vadim Koleshnenko, who spoke and quoted President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine at yesterday's session on language humiliation. But I say to Kolesnick and to Mr. President that the language humiliations of 300 years have been experienced by Ukrainians who, by fire and sword, the Russian Empire, the self-government and the Russian Communist Empire have destroyed, carried out Ukrainian language and Ukrainian language itself, more than 200 bans. And 18 years of Ukrainian nationalism feel the same way. Because, for example, I went to my parents’ requests three times to protect Ukrainian school from closure, a Ukrainian school, and I was unable to protect myself. Because in Donetskin, there are racist tendencies in Lugansk with regard to Ukrainians and Ukrainians. And we feel this humiliation because for our children there is no Ukrainian film, for adults you try to destroy the Ukrainian translation. This is the nation in which they take it, and you're restoring it, they're taking the Ukrainian language. And we feel this humiliation all the time. And instead of contributing to the development of Ukrainian language, it's everywhere being squeezed out of everything, and it takes no heart, no soul, no compassion for this people who have suffered so much and kept this Ukrainian language in order to destroy it in their own state. A statement by the political party “Our Ukraine” on artificial change in the status of languages in Ukraine: “Our Ukraine’s political party strongly condemns the practice of declaring certain areas of Ukraine zones where Russian is considered regional on the basis of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages adopted by the Council of Europe in Strasbourg on November 5, 92. In this regard, we demand the immediate annulment of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea’s decision to recognize Russian as a regional language. Ukraine had already experienced a period of linguistic sovereignty, and the actions of individual local councils had already been duly assessed as a gross violation of the rule of law and of the Constitution of Ukraine. First of all, no position of the Charter provides grounds for recognition in a particular language of a particular status. This issue is dealt with exclusively by special laws of Ukraine and cannot be the subject of local decisions. Secondly, today's official translation of the Charter is contrary to the letter and the spirit of the authentic document. We call for Ukrainian. I'm shrinking. Let me just say that the main content of the paper is the protection of languages that disappear. Such languages are Crimean Tatar, Crimean, Gaussian, and. And Russian language has support in its state, and it has all rights in Ukraine. We urge Ukrainian citizenship to exert all possible pressure on today’s authority and not give it away.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u173	Yes, thank you. Please, Mutz. Prepare Nachoshi.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u174	Orestes Mutz, Party of Regions, Ternopilish. Dear citizens, fellow MPs! Last week there was hope that Western Ukraine had not yet died. President Viktor Janukovic gave this hope, who invited the entire political and economic elite into the heart of Galicina and held the Council of Regions to solve the problems of our country. As a result, all the Western areas were filled with hope, even the most neglected Ternopolishka of my family. There's only one bad example. Today, only 16 cows are held in the farm of the Podgajetsky region of Ternopil. The rich Western region with its intelligence, its ancestry, its architectural, its historical heritage, the possibility of cross-border co-operation led the previous authorities to poverty, to life on a grant from the state budget. And it's because there's no such over-politication of self-government agencies as in western Ukraine anymore. These include the decisions of local councils, such as the Ternopil district: piracy in the Black Sea, the lifting of the European Parliament’s resolution, the request for an apology from Poland, and the collection of monuments in other areas. Meanwhile, our people are living in distress, and pseudo-positioners are profiting. West Ukraine was afraid of being neglected by a new authority that would place a cross on it. Instead, last week, the President bowed down to Western Ukraine, portrayed it as attractive to investors, so that Western Ukraine was known in the world as a productive power, not an employee. “I will do my best to make sure that people in Lviv, Ternopolska or any other Western region live no worse than in Ukraine as a whole” – these words by Viktor Yanukovic are important to our people because they have the lowest wage in the country. “There should be no such difference”, the President stressed, setting out the main task of power – to significantly increase wages. Not in vain a leading internet release noted: “Unlike Yushchenka, who came to Donetsk in 2005 to demonstrate the new rules of the game, Yanukovic came to Lviv in 2010 to improve the standard of living of people.” I'll tell the political forces that are opposed to actual power. You don't want a better life for Western Ukraine, because once it's for President Yanukovic's people, today's opposition will become political losers. But Ukraine will be no worse than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u175	Thank you. Because we all hope it will be better for our citizens. So Oleg Nadusza, who represents the Party of Regions, will now be speaking. He was followed by Julia Kovalevska, who was given the word of her colleague Glazunov. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u176	Nadosha Oleg, Party of Regions, Poltava region. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! This talk is intended to draw attention to the disastrous situation in the Ukraine’s State Reserve. During the past 10 years, nine heads have been managed by the Stock Reserve, and virtually every one of them has been large - scale and does not depend on the political decoration of the first person. Here are just some examples that have become known to the general public. First. In June 2009, Derzcomreserve sold one of the companies 23,000 tons of diesel fuel storage in 2003-2005 at a price of one and a half gallons. During this time, more than six bracelets were spent on AZS liters of diesel fuel. The state’s losses amounted to 105 million 322,000 dollars. Later, another company also purchased 14,000,600 tons of fuel for the 2003 strike jets at the price of 30 gallons per liter on the 1st bracelet. A year before that part of the fuel was purchased, 90 dollars each, and the damage was worth 125 million 560 dollars to the country. Another fact that needs more detailed clarification is the violation of the requirements of the law when entering into a stock exchange agreement between the State Reserve and the German Trade Company for the purchase by the State of more than 20,000 tons of sugar at the price of 11,000 dollars per tonne. And this is at a time when in the city markets, the retail price was up to 5 ounces 80 pounds per kilogram. The country’s losses amount to more than 44 million dollars. All of this is just the tip of the iceberg. The current state of affairs in the Derzcomreserve looks and causes fear that at the time of X we will leave the country without the strategically needed protective materials and food for the population. I'll give you some numbers again. In recent years, the state reserve has virtually failed to place material values. As a result, as of January 1, 2010, there were no approved levels for food groups with 9 appointments foreseen by the nomenclature. According to an internal audit, there are no 212,000 tons of grains in the state reserve, 8,000 tons of meat, 3,000 tons of top - oil, and 7 million cans of meat cans that have been accounted for without trace for 2,000 tons of oil. How many more facts do we need to make sure that our law enforcement authorities finally tear their asses off and start working? The mountains of information about the thefts are in the airlock. What do you lack to violate criminal proceedings against real persons, the leaders of the State Reserve? They're nowhere to be shared, they're next to us, their names are known, and some of them still work in ministerial positions, some of them stand up as opposition actors, and the actions of law enforcement are called opposition pressures. All the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u177	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u178	All the time I've been talking about, no one, I emphasize, has ever sat on the bench of the defendants. Thank you for your attention, and everyone please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u179	Thank you. I would like to invite Julia Kovalevski, who has six minutes at the expense of her colleague’s regulation. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, don't make any noise. We have a large number of people to work quietly here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished TV and radio audiences. Yesterday we witnessed a moving event, President Viktor Yanukovic delivered a message to the Ukrainian people. Without exaggeration, this was the most meaningful and thorough statement by the President in the history of Ukraine. The strategic pathways for the further development of the State were clearly and clearly outlined. It is remarkable that the President's message has been heard a hundred days ago since he took an oath, when the first positive shifts have already been observed, the first results of the work and the future prospects are clearly presented. In his letter to the public, Viktor Janukovic introduced a program of economic reform for the next five years that fully meets his preelection promises. And it was no accident that the President started a speech with a speech approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading of the draft Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy. Because this law will determine both the principles of Ukraine's internal policy in the areas of statehood, local self-government, the formation of civil society institutions, national security and defence, and the principles of Ukraine's foreign policy. The adoption of this law in general will make our internal and external policies open, understandable to all, form the basis for the implementation of public policy in the relevant spheres of social life. Viktor Janukovic, Party of Regions, has claimed from the beginning that Ukraine's non-block status, that the key to active authority is to raise the standards of living of the Ukrainian people, to ensure the prosperity of the nation. And if the United States, Russia, the European States are willing to act as our allies in this matter, we're in favour. That is why we will continue to work with our neighbors. In order to enter the most developed countries, Ukraine must become a regional leader in Eastern Europe. Since Russia is our closest neighbor and strategic partner, we have resumed a five - year - long dialogue with the Russian Federation. Russia is ready to give Ukraine strong support today, and the Russians see us as a full partner. So the dialogue between countries is conducted in a constructive way, transparently, clearly, on the basis of mutual responsibility. It was only in the first quarter of this year that the trade between our countries doubled. This is the result of a new state leadership policy. This year, too, a number of projects, frozen by the previous orange power, have been re-established, so sensitive to our economy that the price of Russian gas has been reduced, that our Ukrainian economy has begun to grow slowly but confidently. The country's GDP increased by almost 5 percent in the first quarter, after a record drop in 2009. Many joint initiatives have been resuscitated, and they will soon come to life. An important component of European security is the strategic partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. So yesterday, the President stressed the need to renew the idea of signing a declaration on Ukraine and Russia's strategic partnership. In Ukrainian-Russian relations, an inventory of international bilateral treaties should be carried out to strengthen the provisions of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership. We will prepare a new, ten-year socio-economic cooperation programme that will allow us to fully implement our basic Friendship Agreement. “Our firm position: relations with Russia will develop in the east”, Janukovic said. I think it's unproductive to think about who wins more than co-operation. The alliance of two nations, based on good-neighbourliness and mutual understanding, is equally beneficial to both countries. It is notable that the West has responded very positively to the Ukrainian-Russian initiatives by renewing the dialogue with Ukraine because it is confident of our prospects. I'm convinced that now the current government is implementing Ukrainian politics, not pro-Russian or pro-American, who doesn't say anything. Dear colleagues, you will probably agree with me that the main task of the foreign security policy of each state is to protect national interests in a rapidly changing world. And for Ukraine, the policy of non-blocking is an effective tool for solving this problem. Such a policy, I think, is entirely in line with the requirements of time, and we will strictly adhere to it. At the same time, as the President stressed yesterday, Ukraine needs to cooperate with NATO, other security organizations. Hence, from the declaration of applications to practical matters, we need to move on to practical matters. And in this direction, Ukraine will work hard to develop a new system of collective security in European and Euro-Atlantic space. We want to develop our country, strengthen its industrial and economic potential, enhance its attractiveness in terms of investment and finance. Ukraine has every chance to enter the second decade of the 21st century by a powerful and respected state. This requires political stability, calmness and confidence on tomorrow, allowing Ukraine to undertake constructive reforms in economic and social security. Ukraine must become a country united by a national idea. I believe that the time of divisions and misunderstandings has gone back in time. The president urged the Ukrainians to unite to build the future together, stressing that the main priority is a consolidated society. The strategic objective and basic tasks of the new government are defined, and systemic reforms have begun. So through hard work, we will accomplish all the tasks we have set before us. I believe. No, I am confident that Ukraine will soon enter the 20th richest countries in the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u181	Viacheslav Kirilenko gives the floor to Vladimir Moisik. He will be followed by Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u182	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, respected journalists! I want to draw your attention to the sad fact of the crime that took place on Prikarpatha. On March 23rd of this year, a prominent practitioner, the editor-in-chief of the newspaper “Colomian Publisher”, my invariable, eight years of assistant and press secretary Vasil Demianiv, was brutally beaten near his apartment. He was beaten out of the question, he was an active writing journalist, he raised topics that affected the entire community of Colomia, the region of Johno-Frankow, especially in Cologne, he stood up for the park called Kiril Dralovsky, who wanted to take over and build parts of the local stitch. So it happened. His skull was fractured, caused by severe trauma, and his legs were broken and nothing was taken from him, even though he had a caper and a stick that he had just bought. They stood up for journalists, international journalists' organizations, Ukrainian civil society organizations, individual journalists and citizens, and the case is also broken in the police department, but I want to inform you that the case has not been investigated for two months, and I would also like to warn the police against a simplified approach to dealing with this crime against the journalist. And the story is that the two robbers attacked to pick up the cell phone and beat the journalist so violently, and it's like they committed a similar crime somewhere else, confirming their involvement in the attack on a journalist. This will not be an argument, because I am suffering myself, and every day I communicate with him says that when he passed by them he heard the words: “That’s the way he is!” So they got a mobile-phone team from someone in particular. And they hit him with a stick on the head, behind him on his feet, so that he would emerge as a journalist. So I want to assure you, my Colombian and Carpathian voters, that we will make every effort and means of parliamentary investigation, journalists, to punish those responsible for this crime. And I also want to assure my assistant, journalist Vasil Antonovich, that I am personally conducting my parliamentary investigation. If there is a need for legal guardians to help me as a deputy and a lawyer, I am willing to provide it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u183	Thank you, Vladimir Ivanovich. I would like to ask advice from the Minister of Internal Affairs to address this situation as well, especially since our current legislation provides for a rather severe punishment when it comes to professional activity as a journalist, not just a domestic matter. So that's what I'd like to ask you to do. I invite Andrew Pavlovsky, followed by Paul Mokchan. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u184	Dear pensioners, I would like to address you first, we remember that in January of this year, then Presidential candidate Yanukovic promised publicly on TV that the minimum pension would be 1,000, 200, and an average of 2,000. So it had to increase substantially, as promised, by 500-600 dollars. Let's see how things are actually going with us, how they counted pensions. First, they counted pensions not from November 1st, as required by the law, but from January 1st alone. I mean, they tricked people into paying in two months. Secondly, a small increase, just a few tens of dollars, was given to pensioners who have a pension of less than 706 dollars. Two million pensioners only got a three-year raise, and four million 200,000 pensioners didn't get anything, zero, zero. Such an improvement is already, a life that has been promised today and this increase cannot be called an increase, these are pitiful bones instead of what people have promised and expected. I also want to go to the budget, the teachers, the doctors. We also remember Janukovic’s promise to raise wages substantially to 3.5 million budgeters. At the same time, the government of Azarov, in gross violation of the Act of Pay for Work, has done so by means of tariff net manipulations that people receive less than 300 dollars from budget workers, and teachers and doctors don't pay them 500 or 600 dollars. And it's not clear what the unions are silent about. It takes people to demand what is legally theirs. I also want to point out that in the 2010 budget, the minimum wage increases by only 53 bracelets, and the minimum pension increases by 39 bracelets, respectively, by 6.5 percent. At the same time, official inflation is 13 percent. What's that? This means that the increase in pensions and salaries under Yanukovic's authority this year will be twice as high as the increase in the price of consumer goods of the first necessity. That is, the 100 days of Yanukovich’s new government have become 100 days of deception, failure to fulfill their social obligations, lies, and violations of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u185	Before you know it, I invite Paul Silent. He will be followed by Vladimir Moses, who was given the word Vladimir Karpuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u186	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich and distinguished colleagues! Today I have been denied registration of the Act amending the Law on the Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities. And in this context, I am not only indignant, but I am asking for your involvement, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, what are the motives for refusing to register the law that will be considered in the June months of the Koleshnichenko edition. It's a famous editorial. I would just like to take this opportunity to quote a few paragraphs from the appeal of the national MPs, a large group of national deputies from the opposition to the language situation in Ukraine. These statements were signed by the Heads of the Governing Council of earlier calls because what is happening today is not just speculation, but coercion, as Kulczynski Mikola said, forcing us to speak the only language. I don't need to talk about the percentages of Russian-speaking citizens in our country who have absolutely every right to the full functioning of Russian. Several thousand Russian public schools and preschools, the dominant advantage of Russian - speaking media, hundreds of libraries, Russian theaters, cultural centers, are all good in Ukraine. I was recently in Bilokamiya and the only Ukrainian school on Sundays at the Ukrainian Cultural Center, where children are brought from Moscow. Where is parity? But what is the new policy of cooperation with our so-called nearest neighbor? Indeed, the complete destruction of the Ukrainian language is necessary for those who want to turn Ukraine into a Russian colony. That's never gonna happen! The earth will burn under the feet of those who want to encroach on the sacred right of every Ukrainian to speak his own language. What do we have today? We only see 25 percent of Ukrainian-language television broadcasts on national television. About 20 just Ukrainian newspapers. What is done with the Ukrainian book, the cinematographer? We don't have our home information space! We were convinced that it was impossible to duplicate films in Ukrainian because it would lead to great damage. We know that all of this is an increase, and that's why I want to warn against those who want to implement politics, so-called "stabilisation" in paws, in Ukraine? Never in life will any Ukrainian - conscious citizen accept those principles imposed on us by the northern neighbour that Russian is our natural language. Today, a huge session is being produced in Russia, called "the great opposition of the Imperial Court" -- this is a Russian publishing house that runs a consistent policy led by Narocnické.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u187	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u188	by the Russians of Ukraine to make Ukraine its colony during this period of cadence, when it will be in power today. That's never gonna happen! Because if they do these barriers to denationalization, the Irish, when the Basque country becomes, when, look what happens in Belgium! It will never work. I do it for the old, for the agents of influence, for the chariots and for all the other FSBs in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u189	Paul Mikolaiovich, finish. Vladimir Moisik will be followed by Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u190	Vladimir Moysik, Party “For Ukraine!” Honorary Chairman, Honorary Fellows of National MPs, Honourable Voters, I would like to make a statement by the political party “For Ukraine!” about the systematic regulation of Ukrainian education, which is carried out by Minister Ukraine's hater – Tobacco. The Colonel of Historical Sciences, Tobacco, decided to eliminate foreign literature and reduce the volume of study of Ukrainian literature. He wants Ukrainian schoolchildren to study works, though well - known, but long - dead Ukrainian authors. This means that he wants to deprive our children of the opportunity to study the works of Lena Kostenko, Boris Oliynik, Maria Matios, Oksana Zabrzeko laureate of the National Award for Taras Shevchenk, known to us and to the creative world. What cynicism must be achieved in order to isolate Ukrainian schoolchildren from the entire layer of contemporary Ukrainian literature! The Colonel of Historical Sciences, Tobacco, decided to isolate schoolchildren from the best purchases of foreign literature. Tobacco wants to eliminate foreign literature by introducing a world literature course instead. And it's not just about changing the name, it's about, according to Tobacco itself, three quarters of this class is going to be studying purely Russian literature. The Russian certainly deserves a thorough study in the school program. It still takes up more than any other literature in the world today. But to seduce German and French, Italian and English, Spanish and American, Polish, and many other literature into one quarter of the world’s literature just so that Tobacco can demonstrate the faithful submission of the Kremlin. It's no less the crime of a Colonel of the History of Tobacco to shut down rural schools. And it's not just that there are so many people in the villages who hate tobacco in Ukraine, because closing schools in small villages, which the Smoker claimed was a step towards destroying the same small villages, because without a school, the village is doomed to extinction. I will give you information that 500 villages disappeared from the map of Ukraine during the years of independence. The Party “For Ukraine!” emphasises that every day the colonel of historical sciences, who hates Ukraine and Ukrainians in the ministerial office, is the destruction of Ukrainian education. And I would like to address the Ukrainians who are in the Party of Regions and other coalition parties. Is it not offensive for you to be called untrue Ukrainians, unwashed, and so forth? Shame on the Smoker!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u191	I would like to invite Jaroslav Jódzik, after which he will have a minute for the replica of Mikhailo Wolintz and Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u192	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian People’s Party draws attention to a dangerous situation involving respect for human rights in Ukraine. The violation of fundamental rights and freedoms by law enforcement officials has become massive, and the authorities appear that nothing is happening. Meanwhile, Ukrainian police have become more like gang members in pursuits than law enforcement. I will give just a few of the most gruesome facts of the last days that testify to the return of the principles of man’s lawlessness and the authority of an official in pursuit. On June 02, at 4 p.m., about 50 people in black clothes attacked a camp of public activists in the Gorkoki park in Kharkiv. Militia under the leadership of the chief of the Harkow militia, Alexander Barannik, watched silently as people were beaten and did not act to stop the workers who cut down the trees, regardless of the people they were chained to. In their inactivity, police officers sought to kill and leave without the help of a person in danger provided for in the articles of the Criminal Code, because the trees were tied together, and the climber who was at the top could at any time fall from a height of more than 10 meters. On June 2, police officers detained people near Kharkiv ODA without any explanation, refusing to present themselves even at the request of journalists. All of these facts are numerical confirmations in the form of photos and videos. So far, there has been no court decision regarding detained persons. The same June 2nd in Kiev, in violation of all possible procedural standards, was held in custody by the head of the independent media association Donetsk Maksim Abramowski. At the same time, police officers acted harshly, closed the person and put physical pressure on him without any explanation. This list can certainly go on, and all of this applies, once again, to the last few days alone. A 20-year-old student was recently killed in a very questionable situation in Shevchenków Ryvid. The militia is causing serious destabilisation in the country by its antilegal actions. The results are already visible. In many cities, public protests against the militia have recently taken place. With this in mind, the Ukrainian People's Party demands that the investigation of violations of human and civil rights and freedoms be conducted on the basis of the above - mentioned facts, that criminal cases be prosecuted on the basis of the evidence of the crimes provided for in the relevant Criminal Code, that action be taken to eliminate the officials and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u193	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u194	These actions should be taken immediately by the authorities if they do not want to completely destabilize the situation in the country by silent monitoring of lawless conduct by law enforcement rather than by the promised order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u195	Mikhailo Wolintz, one minute, will complete Yuri Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u196	Dear TV setters, reverent radio audiences! In Ukraine, a 15 - percent increase in wages has taken place since the beginning of the year. At the time, workers were not transferred to a new, higher minimum wage, which now accounts for 884 bracelets as a basis for a much higher salary. In this context, Ukraine will be heard in Geneva on June 8th in the International Labour Organization, the only state around the world will be hearing in connection with the failure to implement the “Right to Remuneration” Convention on debt on wages, precisely because they have not moved workers in all sectors of the State, non-State sector into new working conditions. At the same time, I would like to point out that the biggest debt on salary in Donetsk, Lugansk, Dnipropetrovsk oblast, Kiev, Kiev. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that instead of constructively resolving the issue, the authorities have decided to approach the other side. May 5th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u197	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u198	On May 5, the Cabinet of Ministers issued Decree No. 330, which stipulated the introduction of a minimum hourly wage of 5 bracelets and 29 copies. So if a person works 2 hours a day, they're going to have 10 dollars if they're going to work 2 days a month, as we have thousands of large, small, small enterprises, medium enterprises, in this case they're not going to have 884 dollars a minimum wage, they're going to have just 150 dollars, but this time, part-time week, part-time job, no way they're going to be part-time. Too bad I don't have enough time right now because I'd like to encourage the population to disagree with President Viktor Yanukovic's proposals to increase the retirement age now for women by five years and then for men. By no means can we agree to this, for conditions of life, wages, and quality of life have not improved in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u199	Thank you, Mr. Mikhail. Yuri Carmazin, one minute, and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u200	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! I'm happy that relations with the Russian Federation are improving. That's why I want to give the president a new theme. I want to give the theme that on the arsenals, bases and warehouses of the Black Sea fleet on the Crimean Peninsula, more than 15.5,000 conditional wagons of weapons, military equipment, missiles and ammunition, some 2.5 thousand of which are unfit, dangerous and forbidden to use a sample. Over the past two years, the disposal of funds has not been carried out at all on these facilities. In addition, 12 units of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation are located in Sevastopol, where about 450 tons of potent toxic substances are stored. It's sulfuric acid, it's edible sodium, it's edible chlorine, it's ammonia, it's freon and so on. I am addressing the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the head of the Security Service, the Minister of Environmental Protection, the Minister of Emergency Situations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u201	Finish it, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u202	Please provide complete information on the damage to Ukraine's natural environment caused by the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation during the entire period of its stay in Ukraine, as well as information on new possible environmental threats. And I would like to make it a topic of international arrangements to take measures to prevent the pollution of the Black Sea and the Azov Seas, our natural environment, where Ukrainians live and survive and where Ukrainians should live. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-06-04-m0.u203	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I would like to prepare some of the questions that Yuri Anatolyevich was asking about. And let me remind you that people's deputies are working on committees, commissions and factions next week. On June 9, 2010, at 3 p.m., the Supreme Council will hold parliamentary hearings on the subject: “The introduction of 12-year general and secondary education in Ukraine. Problems and ways to overcome them.” The next planning session will take place on Tuesday, June 15, at 10 a.m., and the day before, as usual, the Supreme Council will hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council on June 14 at 11 p.m. Thus, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck!
