ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:08]] There were 421 deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on December 1, 2010. Twenty-two issues of the agenda were considered: three laws were passed, one bill was adopted on the basis of which one bill was returned to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, 17 bills and 2 draft regulations were rejected. Dear national deputies, the schedule for the December 2nd meeting is given to you, and materials are also needed. I have a lot of requests for you, dear colleagues, for us to work actively, taking into account the need to consider a number of additional issues. I would like to announce the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Contemporary status and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster." Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to consider this with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:03:39]] For 197 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Almost a quarter of a century ago, there was the largest technological catastrophe in human history — Chernobyl. Not only did this change the world’s view of nuclear power but it also destroyed the fate of millions of people and brought a heavy burden on the shoulders of countries affected by the disaster. All the world’s societies are preparing for the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. An organizational committee has been formed and has been set up to prepare and conduct arrangements for the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy. Nor can the Ukrainian Parliament stay away from this event, as the relevance and necessity of resolving a number of issues remains. In addition, the March 2011 parliamentary hearings are one of the main measures related to the 25 years of the Chernobyl disaster at the national level. The Committee proposes a wide-ranging discussion of a set of measures aimed at further social, medical and psychological rehabilitation of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, economic recovery and the continued development of settlements and territories outside the alienation zone that have been exposed to radioactive pollution, as well as places of compact residence of displaced citizens, preservation of their cultural, historical heritage, reinforcement and support of radiation safety barriers, removal from the exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and conversion of the facility to an environmentally sound system and a number of other equally relevant issues. In order to participate in parliamentary hearings, it is suggested that representatives of central and local authorities, local governments, public and international organizations, and scientists be invited. The only difficulty is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u3	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u4	The only difficulty is that when the draft decision was made, and now we don't have a calendar plan for the next session. It was therefore difficult to determine a specific date for parliamentary hearings. The need to determine the date and time of the hearings also draws attention to the Rules Committee. The committee proposes to hold parliamentary hearings on Wednesday 16 March from 15 to 18:00. In this context, we propose paragraph 1 of the draft decree to read: “Consider March 16, 2011 at 3 p.m. in the Plenary Hall.” and continue with the text. Please support the decision, with the proposed changes. Thank you for your attention, and again, on behalf of the committee, I ask for your approval.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u5	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this issue? What we need to do is hold parliamentary hearings clearly. Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikola Catherinechuk, microphone, please. The faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u6	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine Obviously, I don't think there's anyone in the room who won't press the button just to hold these hearings. The only result of these hearings, however, should be specific decisions of the Supreme Council, and in times of crisis we have to pay very great attention to this problem. In addition, the problem of the Chernobyl benefits, which are being substantially reduced now in connection with, let’s say, the government’s failure to meet all its social obligations and the possibilities of their treatment. More and more hospitals and sanatoriums in which they received medical support are not functioning properly today. I think all of this should be the subject of discussion and decision-making by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I propose to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u7	Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski, BUT-Batakščina faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u8	Society, post - Chernobyl problems have two categories. One, it's social. And it should be noted that, in fact, this year's budget did not put a penny on compensation for black people, and people go straight to court and can't do anything about it. That's the first problem. But the second, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, remains perhaps the most important problem. We have not yet come up with any final solution to the elimination of the object itself, the dangerous object of the Chernobyl nuclear station. We understand very well that there was a similar catastrophe on Three-Mile Island. Today it's just the green sea. We are today, I think, and scientists, a lot of scientists say, we're going a fictitious way: we want to preserve, we want to cover with another sarcophagus, another coat, this sarcophagus, but the danger remains. As a result, alternative representatives of science must be invited, which are offered entirely different solutions to the problem. And then, I think it's going to do a lot of good. But these hearings must be conducted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u9	Honorable national MPs, no more willing to express their point of view? None. Dear colleagues, obviously, we have one position: that we should hold these parliamentary hearings. I'm going to propose some editorial details. Anatolia Ivanovich Seminogue, please listen to us to agree or disagree with them. First. Paragraph 1: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to hold parliamentary hearings on 16 March 2011 in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the topic “Contemporary status and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster”. In the second paragraph, I propose to delete the words: “Typturing for Ukrainian national deputies is necessary”. That the Cabinet of Ministers should file documents. But writing in a regulation that's being distributed, well, I don't think it's necessary to do that. Please say yes. Paragraph 3: “The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, - and I continue to propose such clarification - to take the necessary measures from the organization and health care of hearings, to work out proposals for parliamentary hearings.” Move it around. Paragraph four: “Enquire to participate in parliamentary hearings.” Here comes the list. Excluding it because the committee will determine who he needs to invite, and more than that, in the preceding paragraph, we are tasking the committee to take the necessary organizational action. And it's still in the text. So point four is deleted, we're renumbering only. Is there no objection? Taking into account these suggestions. Anatoly Ivanovich, do you agree? I am voting on the draft Supreme Council Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Contemporary status and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster" for adoption as a decree. [[Registration number 6663]] Please vote. [[10:11:51]] For three hundred I'll take the order. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings in 2010 on "Legislative Security and Real Status of Respect for the Rights of the Child in Ukraine" is under review. [[December 22, 2010]] [[Registration number 6621]] Please consider the simplified procedure. Is there any objection? Please vote. [[10:12:35]] For the 220. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Olena Fedorovna Bondarenko. Correspondent is the secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Najdionov Andry Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u10	Olena Bondarenko, Faction “BUT – Fatherhood”. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, 60 years ago, the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms was adopted, one of the first obligations of which is the inescapable respect for the right to life, liberty and personal integrity, fair trial, prohibition of discrimination, torture, slavery, and forced labour. Not so often can it be heard that all human rights are extended to children. And the simple phrase: "child is human," has a profound meaning. Today, 1 out of every 5 children in Europe suffers from sexual violence, 1 out of every 3 becomes a victim sooner or later or a witness to domestic violence against their mother, and the sale of children as young slaves and donors of internal organs is increasing. It is difficult to overestimate the importance and role of international conventions, which not only contain a list of requirements and measures to be followed and used by States and authorities, but also mechanisms that allow the State to track and evaluate the implementation of these requirements and measures. Meanwhile, Ukraine has not yet ratified a number of conventions that deal with the rights of the child, particularly the Hague Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child and Interstate Adoption, resulting in chaos, corruption, and illegality in Ukraine. The office of the authorized Supreme Council for the Rights of the Child has not yet been established, as has been done in democratically civilized countries. On November 20, World Children’s Day was celebrated, and on November 29, a Pan-European campaign against sexual violence against children was launched in Rome. In this context, in my opinion, we should explain in the form of parliamentary hearings what is the legal security and the actual state of respect for the rights of the child in our collapse. Over the past five years, a number of State programs have been implemented to strengthen the rights of the child, and other steps have been taken to protect these rights. Unfortunately, however, these steps are not systematic, and they are far from always in line with modern international standards, with the protection of human rights and children in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u11	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u12	Thank you. Parliamentary hearings will enable us to discuss and work out effective mechanisms for the observance and protection of the rights of children. This format, to our deep conviction, is optimal, because we have the opportunity to involve not only officials and national deputies, but representatives of local governments, NGOs, independent experts to discuss problems and find ways to solve them. Please support the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u13	Thank you. Yes, from the committee, please, Andrew Mikhailovich Najdionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies! The Committee at its meeting on 17 November 2010 reviewed the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings in 2010 on “Legal Security and Real Status of Respect for the Rights of the Child in Ukraine”, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Bondarenko and Suslovim. The purpose of parliamentary hearings is to produce systems of effective mechanisms, respect and ensure the rights of children. The Committee on Legal Policy noted that there were no indications that the draft decision was not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine and noted that it could be adopted on the basis of the draft decision in the first reading. The Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded that the Supreme Council of Ukraine had adopted appropriate decisions to hold parliamentary hearings from other issues in December of the tenth year and in January 2011. During the discussion of the draft ruling at the committee meeting, a proposal was made to hold the parliamentary hearings on April 6, 2011. But the committee decided to support Ukraine's National Deputies Bondarenko and Suslov's proposal to hold parliamentary hearings in December of the tenth year on the subject of “Legislative Security and Real Status of Respect for the Rights of the Child in Ukraine” and to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft decision on the basis and as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, the report and the report you received. Is there a need to discuss this? You don't? Let's make this decision before New Year's Eve. Just a clarification. Let's clear up the "thickets for the people's deputies" there. That's understandable and yes, the Cabinet of Ministers and I will work it out. And we're going to delete the third item on the list of people to be invited. Because the committee is organizing this work and will determine who should be invited. Is there no objection? With this in mind, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis and as a whole the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings in 2010 on “Legal security and the real state of respect for the rights of the child in Ukraine”. [[Registration number 6621]] Please vote. [[10:18:34]] For 326 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! A project on parliamentary hearings on “Contemporary status and prospects for Ukraine’s relations with the Russian Federation and the European Union” is proposed for you on 13 April 2011. The reporter is Martinenko, Yacenuk. Are there no reporters? Taras Chernobyl, please. Dear colleagues! Let's talk about this in a simplified way. Please vote. [[10:19:26]] For 217 Decision taken. Reporter: Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! There are a number of fundamental reasons that determine the need for parliamentary hearings on the topic “Contemporary status and prospects for Ukraine’s relations with the Russian Federation and the European Union”. First. This problem has long since been the subject of special consideration by the deputy corps. The latest parliamentary hearings on relations with the EU took place in May 2007. And Ukrainian-Russian relations, in general, as early as October 2003, were in the midst of a famous conflict around Tuzla's hair. Secondly, relations with Moscow and Brussels, which are key factors in our foreign policy, have never been addressed in the complex. Meanwhile, in the Ukrainian-Russia-Europe triangle, we can solve extremely important issues: identifying Ukraine's position in the European and world security systems, finalizing the state border, effectively countering cross-border crime, such as illegal migration, drug smuggling, arms trafficking. Only through tripartite cooperation can the issues of transport and infrastructure projects be addressed particularly relevant for Ukraine. In particular, the problem of modernizing our gas transport system. The integrated approach looks particularly useful in view of the imbalance in the triangle. In the Russian direction were the Kharkiv agreements, and the meetings of interstate commissions and committees, and large-scale concrete plans for agreements in the basic fields of economics, energy and aviation, shipbuilding. At the same time, Russia’s direction is certainly not cloudless. We also see attempts to control our GTS. And in recent times, the resurgence of customs wars, I mean, an additional tribute to some Ukrainian food products, as well as the intention to continue the anti-dumping duty on imports from Ukraine by 2015. We have a much lower European trend.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u17	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u18	We have much lower dynamics, just a plan to operate into a visa-free regime without specific terms and commitments from the European side. As well as endless negotiations on the integration between Ukraine and the EU of the Association Agreement, which has been ongoing since February 2007. All of this demonstrates a marked lack of strategic approaches in Ukraine’s relations with the European Union and the Russian Federation. And the lack of clear coordinated action by the legislative and executive branches of government. We propose that parliamentary hearings be held in order to provide comprehensive analysis of the situation in order to identify ways of achieving a favourable external political balance for Ukraine. There is a need for joint efforts by the legislative and executive branches of government. Please support our proposal and hold these parliamentary hearings on April 13, 2011. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u19	Thank you, too. Taras Vjačeslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Our committee was only informed yesterday that the draft decree on the conduct of these, in our view, very important and needed hearings would be put into order in the daytime. Well, we were a little surprised, of course, by the approach that completely ignored the previous position of the committee, but there was no appeal to the previous committee at all, and there was no question on our committee at the same time. But given the need, indeed, to hold such hearings, understanding that there are problems and that we need to verbalize them, we made a concerted decision to gather, in order of order of business, in order of order of emergency, whom we have been able to gather, by taking the quorum anyway, and to make a decision on this matter. Our decision is definitely positive, and none of the members of the committee who was able to find such a conclusion at that time objected to the question. And the position of the committee is this: we need to conduct our hearings, our committee that has a position to hold these hearings, ready to prepare them, ready to work on the selection of appropriate adequate, non-politiated, and competent reporters. And we propose, on behalf of our committee, that these hearings be held. There's a more or less consistent position with a number of factions, from which you can see that interest in the room is common for such hearings. There is a position of the regulatory committee that has confirmed that on a given date, the terms and conditions of the decision can and there are no objections. So the committee's position is to hold a hearing. We had only one request from those committee members who said that, nevertheless, from the authors, we were mostly able to work with Mikola Martinenko, because the co-author of today's report ignored all his report today, not once, not once, not once, not once, has appeared on the committee on his bill. [[I mean Arsenia Yatzenyuk.]] But we are ready with one of the authors, Nicholas Martinenko, and the Supreme Council to prepare for these hearings. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense". Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u22	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Listening is certainly necessary. But hearings are open, which will not escape sharp angles. There was recently a Russian parliamentary delegation in Ukraine. I watched on our parliamentary channel this meeting of Ukrainian and Russian deputies. Our deputies expressed different points of view. Meanwhile, Ukrainian officials in the front of each other have reported to the most not-first Russian deputies what they have done for Russia, what they will still do for Russia, and what they will do to ensure Russian interests in Ukraine. At the same time, we have, in the Ukrainians themselves, a lot of questions about ensuring the lives and well-being of the Ukrainians themselves in Ukraine. Therefore, these parliamentary hearings, which certainly need to be held, should not escape sharp corners in their discussion. Why is Russia now insisting on additional parts in the management of the Ukrainian economy, and in the liquid sectors? And it introduces additional restrictive import duties for an entire list of Ukrainian products? And those who have been introduced before are not in a hurry to cancel. And you and I know exactly what's not going to happen. Why is Russia banned by the Federation, the Federal National Cultural Authority of Ukrainians? Why, by decision of the Supreme Court of Russia? Why? Just because members of this public organization, which brings together millions of Ukrainians in Russia, mention the names of Shuhevich, Bandera, Mazepa and other fighters for the national liberation of Ukraine? These hearings should also ask questions that are long - standing in the order of the day in which Ukraine lives. When are those rarityts that are taken from Ukrainian land and found in Russian museums, in order of goodwill, they will return to the Ukrainian museums? And the Hehtman rarities and the Gehtman Clenodes and all that? When the original copies of Kinosudia’s films are called Is the debt that's being stored in Russia going to start coming back here? And here's all the other sharp questions you're going to have to hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u23	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u24	And here are all these sharp questions, and some others will definitely have to be heard during these parliamentary hearings. Therefore, it is not necessary to practice so much, to select very good speakers, and to select those who will highlight sharp corners and seek mutually acceptable, mutually beneficial solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u25	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of "BUT - "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, our constituents! Of course, the question and suggestion that we make is very sensitive, I would say even, and very painful. Indeed, it is time for us not to move from one extreme to another, but to work out some very pragmatic models of our relationship with both the European Union and, of course, with Russia. Because all the cuts that are actually damaging, first of all, Ukraine itself, are absolutely obvious. This peroxide, which is today, when in fact the new government, the new political team in a few months has given national interests far more than all previous governments, all our previous presidents and so forth. Of course, it's abnormal, it's causing a very large detonation in society, a very big dissatisfaction. And even though we're talking about what there are no politicians on Maidan, I'm almost there every day, and believe me, people are talking about these things. Because of this, of course, we need to discuss these points, to discuss them necessarily, because our relationship with the European Union, which is now somewhere, I would not say that they have improved, but they have become slightly softer and somewhat more pragmatic. And that's why today we really need to be able to sort things out in a calm, normal way and determine the parameters of our relationship and with Russia. And not to mention today that we have to write a common story that we have to unite Gazprom and Naftogaz today into one single joint venture. But it's absolutely obvious, and today every Ukrainian resident knows and understands that from this rostrum across the country it was said, "Gas will be cheaper, we give Sevastopol all the way to green brooms, we don't know when and what." And everyone was hoping that this gas would become cheaper. Did he get cheaper? No way. And today Putin specifically says, “What more do you want from us? We have given you what we were about to give." This issue should be discussed, discussed publicly. And I think the Supreme Council is the organ that has, first of all, that right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u27	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u28	For the very authorities themselves, this is essential in order for the people's deputies and representatives of the public to express themselves on this subject. We will vote to hold these hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u29	Please, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u30	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the faction of the Company will not vote in favour of such parliamentary hearings. We're out of the next one. First, a new phase of the negotiation process and practical action has begun in relations with the Russian Federation after five years of furoline politics led by nationalists from Yushchenko in Ukraine. Secondly, a new phase of negotiations with the European Union has begun with regard to the protection of Ukraine's national interests, on a state level, rather than on a furry level, today to build up according to what Ukraine's increasing authority should be in the world community, and so today we should grow economically here inside the state. And the fact that there's another Sabbath trying to organize nationalists here, I don't think there's any doubt about it. I call on my colleagues, for the most part, not to support this proposal or to vote in favour of this initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u31	Yes. Who else insists on the performance? None. No, the faction was already on the scene. That's when the faction didn't act. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on the topic "Contemporary status and prospects for Ukraine's relations with the Russian Federation and the European Union". [[April 13, 2011]] [[Registration number 7361]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:32:23]] For-144 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 2 – “BUT – Fatherland” – 95, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 44, Communists, National Party – 0, non-fractional – 3. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now consider the inclusion of three bills in the order of the day. Next, we have a second reading. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010. [[Registration number 7346]] Please vote. 11 o'clock. It's an inclusion, it's not an examination. [[10:33:19]] For 243 Decision taken. On the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 Now registration number 7388. Please vote. [[10:33:48]] For 243 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2010 under number 7398. Please vote. [[10:34:13]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I'm announcing a draft Law on Market Surveillance and Product Control. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Natalia Jurijovna Královska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dearly-respected are those who are present. On 5 October, we adopted the President's bill as a basis for choosing it as the dominant among similar parliamentary initiatives. The first objective is to ensure market transparency, to introduce rules that will help establish the origin of products: hazardous or inadequate, as well as to eliminate duplication of functions of the Gosnadzor authorities and control the control of product characteristics. The second purpose of the bill is to adapt Ukrainian legislation to European Union legislation and the World Trade Organization regulations in the field of technical regulation and to introduce a market surveillance system in the country in accordance with European conditions. Without the first objective, we will not be able to develop a civilized internal market. Without a second goal, we will not be able to develop adequately to the demands of the outside world. The fact that the current control system is nowhere to be found, and that's understandable, I think, everyone. It is an atavim that can take first place in the world in terms of inadequacy and inefficiency. Instead of monitoring that provides a transparent procedure and could identify dishonest producers, poor quality products, we have a more repressive machine. This has long been abandoned throughout the world, but Ukraine is a typical preserve of outdated legislation, so it is not surprising to be here. A large number of monitoring functions are duplicated by various monitoring bodies. Officials who compete with each other, thereby empowering officials to restrain entrepreneurs today immediately from several sides and from various functions of supervisors. It is regrettable that formal legislation offers them this opportunity. We cannot talk about increasing competitiveness and investment attractiveness until we are able to regulate our internal market. In fact, Ukraine uses a bad copy of the Soviet system, which does not fit the spirit of time and the requirements of society. The bill proposes to address the above-mentioned problems, introduce European modern approaches in the field of surveillance and control, in particular the principle that market surveillance is subject to products that are placed on the market and distributed on the market. That is, the checks will be carried out by distributors, not producers. In this way, we introduce both external producers and domestic producers into an equal competitive field, because today the main function of monitoring is to screen businesses that produce insufficient and insufficiently competitive products in the internal market 24 hours a day. This means that the checks will not be carried out by manufacturers but only by distributors. Or if dangerous products are detected in the internal market, they will be monitored by manufacturers. The second reading of the bill was followed by 207 amendments, of which a large part was taken into account. But it didn't affect the project. The Committee proposes that the bill be supported and adopted as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u33	Thank you. Let's do some repairs. The 18th amendment is rejected. Simonenko, Marmazov, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please. Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u34	Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u35	Marble microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u36	So, what did you start with the 18th? It's still 15th and 16th. It says here: counted editorially. It's not really counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u37	I'm sorry, I thought you were being clarified.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u38	She's not counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u39	15th, please, 15th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u40	15th, 16th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u41	There's no correction. There's no reason why it's missing here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u42	15, 16 amendments, I've got it written down, Simonenko, Marmazov, page four.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u43	Oh, yes, yes, 15th, 16th is in one correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u44	Well, here's the thing. Our amendments are identical to those of 11, 12, 13 and 17, and they are of Jojik, Kamchatny and Carmazin, who are also rejected. In fact, it's written here: it's done editorially; it's rejected. We do not yet have the required number of technical regulations. And it says here that we must be guided only by technical regulations. It's designed for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u45	Yes, please, committee, position.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, very much. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u47	Yes, please. So turn on the microphone, form an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u48	So I'm going to say that for today, only 7 of us have developed technical regulations from the 30s. It is therefore necessary to write down here, as we suggest, which means that it is only subject to technical regulations and other standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u49	Yes, please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u50	Thank you very much, colleagues. Indeed, a necessary amendment is needed. We have discussed this for a long time. Unfortunately, in 20 years of independence, only seven technical regulations of the 30th have indeed been adopted. This is a great disgrace to us, so it was decided by the Committee that the law should be implemented six months later and that the six-year period should concentrate all the efforts of the executive to complete the process of adapting and implementing technical regulations in Ukraine. Otherwise, we deny ourselves that no technical regulations will be adopted for the next 20 years of our independence. There will be the same fiber and “conscription”, as has been the case for the past 19 years, and will not be adapted to the technical regulations of the European Union. This is, above all, the competitiveness of our products, the opportunity for our products to be equal, to be present in European markets and internal markets. So if nothing is done within six months.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u51	I am voting on Amendments 15 and 16. [[10:41:11]] For-34 No correction supported. 18th Amendment. Please, it's Marmazov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u52	Here's the 18th and the 19th. So, according to procedure. It says here that it's rejected. Without reason, however, it was denied. In particular, I wanted to point out that I was present on the Committee when the amendment was considered and the Committee adopted the amendment. Even to remind you that Chechetov asked the royal question: “Yes, says the register accepted or not?” She said: “Yes, accepted, and now we will be finalizing, given that the register has been accepted.” So that's the key point. If we don't support this, this whole law is a storm in the glass, a chat, in fact. Why do we insist on accepting the register? It's an experience, by the way, and a European experience. The key to quality control, it is shown, is to provide information flows and a mechanism for the removal from the market of quality products, including removals from the market as a whole. Today we have no solution to this problem. So we have these local registers, in particular customs, and business, medical supplies. But they're local, they're local.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u53	Please, the committee's decision. Please bet next time. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u54	I'm in for two. Two in a row. Therefore, without a holistic information system, it will not be possible to monitor the removal from the entire market of unfavourable products. That's a key question. If this does not work, there is no point in voting in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u55	Thank you very much. It's a very important question. He had been discussed for a long time at a meeting of the Committee, and we had held a meeting of the Committee with the author of the amendment, after which the members of the Committee had insisted that the Committee should meet again. Unfortunately, you were unable to attend it in connection with your flight. At the meeting of the Committee and representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, representatives of the Administration of the President, representatives of the executive branch had a fairly broad discussion on the matter. And I want to inform. According to the bill, in particular article 42, the establishment and operation of a national market surveillance system in Ukraine is envisaged. The database will, inter alia, serve the purpose of analysing the non-conformity situation in Ukraine's market in the development of sectoral market surveillance plans and of monitoring the impact of activities undertaken in relation to such non-compliant products. It should be emphasized that the national system will only address market surveillance authorities'decisions regarding non-compliant products, rather than data on all products that are in circulation on the Ukrainian market. So do I.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u56	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u57	Similarly, Bill 7094, in particular article 13, provides for the establishment and operation of an operational mutual notification system in Ukraine that poses a serious risk. This system should be similar to the relevant European system of the “RAPEX” and should be connected over time.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u58	Thank you. Thank you. Please, Simone's microphone. I'd be so stingy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u59	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, as our colleague, the King, has said. It points out that, first, once quality control is removed specifically from the enterprise, the shadow economy is strengthened, first of all. Secondly, the Queen proposes today to increase the pressure on small and medium-sized businesses, i.e. marketers who have come and are standing in Maidan today, because she proposes to strengthen control and control of them today by doing products that they do not produce. They are unable to verify this quality and do not have it in the future. And it is today that she proposes to increase the pressure on those who make a penny on the Maidans. That is why I think it is appropriate to say again here why such provocative solutions are proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u60	Right, Petr Nikolayevich, I support you in everything, and I want to remind you of all the halls and all our TV players, we are considering the Presidential Bill. I am speaking in this Presidential Bill as Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee. I propose to consider the Presidential Bill as Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! Let's calm down, dear fellows! And we're not going to honor political action here. The bill was a presidential bill, but the committee was preparing amendments for it, preparing it for second reading, this is the bill of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the way out, it will be a full document of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the people of Ukraine. Let's stop these games with you, whose game he is and how he is. I'm voting on amendment 18 and 19. [[10:46:46]] For-27 No correction supported. Let's move on. Turn around, 24th. Okay, 26th. Is it a 27-year-old jojik you're insisting on her? No, it's not. Carmagine 30? No, it's not. 31, 32, Simonenko, Marmazov, do you insist on her? Marmazov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u62	18-19, it didn't go away automatically.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u63	Okay, thanks. The 33rd, the 35th and the 36th, it's also automatically falling off. Marmazov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u64	Yeah, well, if the 18th doesn't pass, it automatically falls off.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u65	Right. Thank you. Carmazine, round 40, 41st. Carmazine. 45th. Uh, 50s, 51st. Marmazov, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u66	It's automatically decommissioned as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u67	Teeth, Chago. 52, 53. 60, 61. Don't you insist on her? 54? We'll be right there. 54. Partially counted. Jojik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u68	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. While welcoming the abolition of state - owned surveillance and the transition exclusively to market surveillance, I pay attention to the following. The project's authors claim that market surveillance authorities should form a single system, but at the same time, in the text of the law it looks more like a slogan, rather than as confirmed by the relevant instruments, the rule of law. Because the text does not mention a body that will coordinate the work of other market surveillance authorities. In our view, it should be a special central body of executive authority and its functions must be prescribed by law. That is what the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of State Oversight requires, including. In the field of economic activity, it is stipulated that authorities are authorized to exercise State oversight.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u69	Please complete the formulation. Just bet in one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u70	Such bodies are defined exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. So the bill should define a list of specific authorities that exercise market surveillance and control, not assign it to the Cabinet of Ministers. It is not possible for the Supreme Council to exercise its authority in every case.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u71	Yes, thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u72	According to article 1 of the First Bill, there is a list of product types approved under this Act by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for which the relevant market surveillance authority exercises market surveillance. Thus, the concept of “sphere of liability” of market surveillance authorities has no legal responsibility, namely civil liability and criminal responsibility. This amendment is therefore partially taken into account and the Cabinet of Ministers will further define both the list of products to be controlled and the authority to carry out this control directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u73	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 54, 55, 56. [[10:51:04]] For-38 No correction supported. So here's 60, 61st. Eugene Marmazov insists on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u74	No, no. Take a picture.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u75	And 64th, 65th, too. Yes. Yes. '86, '87, '88. Do you insist on it? No, it's not. Yes. Carmazine's 100th amendment. Jojik's 106th? No, it's not. It's the 111st tooth. Jojik 118th. Simonenko, Marmazov 121st, 122nd. Are you insisting? This is page 55.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u76	If it didn't work out, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u77	Page 55. Again, the “value of testing of production samples” goes to language.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u78	What kind of amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u79	121st.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u80	We're recording, we're recording.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u81	138 revisions. Simonenko, Marmazov. "The national information system of market surveillance consists of the text."
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u82	We shoot it, we shoot it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u83	All right, Jojik, 164th. Oh, no? Let's move on. Yes, 172 amendments, Simonenko and Marmazov, on recruitment. 169th, I'm sorry. Jojik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u84	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, we are all witnesses of today’s extremely serious social disasters associated with the speedy adoption of the Tax Code. So Russia has adopted the Tax Code for four years, and we want to make this tax code in two months. We have, in this case, a similar situation. Here is the author, the person who is now standing on the stand, including saying that there are virtually no technical regulations in Ukraine. And in that case, if we introduce this law as of January 1, 2011, we will have a situation where the huge volumes of the corresponding production, in general their production, will not be controlled by anything. And so our proposal is to introduce this Act of 1 January 2013 in order to be able to provide the entire production with technical regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u85	Thank the great drafter of the bill. As a national MP, I fully support you. And the committee had a very heated discussion on the time frame for the bill to be put into effect. We were able to find a compromise. While delaying the implementation of this bill for six months. Because, as you can see, the first edition was the introduction and entry into force of the Act as of 1 January 2011. After discussion in the committee for six months, we postponed the introduction of the bill. Regrettably, let the hall vote and be defined here. The Committee has no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u86	I bet on the vote of amendment 169, 170, 171. [[10:55:59]] For the 15th. No correction supported. Amendment 172, 173. Marmazov's microphone, for entering into operation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u87	Well, we're filming this. We have the 192, 193 here, in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u88	Okay, we're gonna get there right now, to this amendment. Amendment 189, Jojik, are you insisting on it? 189? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u89	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. The bill does not take into account the provisions of paragraph 8.2. 1 EU directive on the implementation of directives based on a global approach to market surveillance through unexpected checks. Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles of State Control in the Field of Economic Activity provides that planned supervision is to be carried out on condition that the subject is given written warning 10 days before the start of the inspection. This rule should be repealed in the Final Provisions of the Bill as being contrary to EU guidelines and common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u90	Thank you very much. Indeed, this is a discussion norm. But this is the only norm that the working group and the committee's discussions on the draft of the bill have been able to assert as protection of small and medium-sized businesses, such as preventing market surveillance from being restructured to punitive supervision, in order to prevent 24 hours without warning from being allowed to break down and completely monitor business entities without warning. That is why we have introduced the rule that we have in the State Control and Oversight Act of 10 days of warning and then only follow-up. And, in principle, we have come to understand with representatives of international organizations that, in the first transition phase, such an adaptation period needs our business. Let's try this law, it's complicated, it's not easy, and it can have a serious impact on the internal market. If they benefit from it, it will be beneficial, and if they exceed their authority, there will be trouble. That's why we gave the 10-day adjustment period.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u91	I'm betting on the vote on amendment 189, 190, 191. Please be sure. [[10:58:42]] For -8 No correction supported. Amendment 192, 193, Eugene Marmazov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u92	Thank you. But that's actually the same thing he said to me. This is where the Queen said that punitive, repressive, terrible Soviet standards. What do we do? In 10 days, warn the businessman that they'll be checked. So you'll see what the test will be like? So let's make a decision. This is where the miners sit. Let's make it 10 days before Gosgortechnadzor tells us he's leaving to check out that lava, and we're not doing that. But I understand King's position, she's a businessman, to check her business, you need to be warned in 10 days. Let me give you an example. When food was checked for 10 days, 3,000,800 tons of food was checked, 50 percent of it being married. That's how they warned me in 10 days. So this is not European in 10 days in any country, we're just going to do it in Ukraine. Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, it is a great pleasure that most of us have begun to advocate for European norms today. Unfortunately, we did not vote on the European Tax Code, which we hope to finalize in the near future. We are now talking about the introduction of Europe into Ukraine. Introduce, but implement, gradually and adequately, our internal standards. This will require determination: It will be difficult to be in this law at the same time with either the smart or the beautiful and the business. You say, on the one hand, that this law is supposed to kill business, and on the other hand, you are amending it, which in general destroys any opportunity for business to protect its interests. Therefore, there has been an attempt to strike a balance between the protection of both the internal market and the safety of food. And this balance has been completely found. I therefore request that this rule be upheld in no way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u94	I bet on the vote of Amendment 192, 193. [[11:01:06]] For-30 No correction supported. And then we're going to make some adjustments. Jojik, 196. Are you insisting? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u95	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Once again, the technical regulations for production in Ukraine are virtually lacking, and the pace of their development due to very low levels of funding is very low. Failure to recognize the obligation to comply with the requirements of regulatory documents, non-harmonised standards, technical conditions, and the lack of technical regulations will prevent a large number of high - risk products from being market surveillance, and the law will not work. I stress that this is the Chapaev approach to solving extremely complex and serious problems. This will lead to a direct failure by the State to fulfil its constitutional obligation Article 42 of the Constitution states: “The State protects the rights of consumers, controls the quality and safety of products and all kinds.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u96	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u97	Thank you so much for asking. It is proposed that, pending the entry into force of the Act and prior to the entry into force of the technical regulations for a particular product, market surveillance be carried out on the basis of sub-legal acts. I want to remind you that it is parallel to this project. The draft draft on the general safety of non-food products will be considered by the bill. Thus, the bill will regulate the control of certain products prior to the entry into force of technical regulations for such products. But our main task is to develop. And since only 7 technical regulations have been developed in 20 years, our country's competitiveness is the last place in the world. And if the seven regulations are developed for another 20 years, we will be completely uncompetitive. It is therefore an incentive for the Executive to complete and adapt the technical regulations to time trends, respectively. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u98	I bet you the vote on the amendment: 196, 197, 198. [[11:03:51]] For-9 The amendment is not accepted. Now it's 199 and 200. Please, Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u99	Well, we've already discussed this, and before technical regulations are adopted, we need to be guided by regulations that are now in place. We therefore insist that this article be voted on again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u100	I put an article to the vote. Sorry, 199 and 200. [[11:04:31]] For-30 The amendment is not accepted. Natalia Yuriovna, please inspire the Supreme Council to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u101	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you, distinguished colleagues. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the law is indeed complex and falls within the area of risk-law. Today, we are giving the executive power the opportunity to show its ability to work with the internal market. Ukraine's competition today depends largely on the extent to which our domestic market will be qualitative, protected from counterfeiting protected from smuggling and the ability of people to enjoy truly high standards. This requires serious market control, but also requires those supervisory authorities, on a market-controlled basis, who will be able to provide this service in a qualitative manner. I therefore believe that such an opportunity should be provided, but that Parliament should take firm control of the bill and, perhaps, before it enters into force for six months, promote all possible risks and prevent them from coming into force before the law enters into force. Because all the amendments today were really important, and I think we're going to go back to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u102	Microphone, please. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the draft law in the second reading and generally as a law. The Chief Legal Authority has called for a bill with observations and believes that the bill needs to be finalized and re-readed and re-readed. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law on Market Surveillance and Product Control. [[Registration number 6694]] Please vote. Please vote. [[11:06:36]] For 236 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I am now announcing a draft law on the non-inclusion of dangerous products in Ukraine. [[Registration number 7094]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u103	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we are considering another bill proposed by the President, which is important for the establishment of civilized rules on the market and the protection of consumer rights. It is a matter of preventing trafficking in dangerous products in Ukraine. You know that this is a very important issue for our country, and the huge bulk of quality products, both imports and domestic producers today, are filling our market. And the price that our State has paid for integration into the global economy has come to build a protective regime. For so far, our citizens have proved to be in fact defenceless, and the State is not in a position to monitor these flows. It's just that officials are doing completely different things. They collect wages, demand bribes, only by covering the quality of products on the Ukrainian market. In fact, no one intends to control this process or to make efforts to prevent quality products from entering the Ukraine market. The recipe for this disease is the establishment of an effective traffic control system, a system that would be set up according to a European model and meet all the modern criteria and challenges of time. In the Committee's view, the bill under consideration was a sufficiently serious regulation that could create civilized control by replacing the collection and bribery system, of course, with the executive's wish, to establish such a system. The adoption of this bill will help achieve two objectives. First, we will be able to ensure transparency in the relationship between market surveillance authorities and entrepreneurs, i.e. we will strengthen the positions we have adopted in the consideration of the previous Market Surveillance Bill. Secondly, we will be able to stand up for consumers and all those who today buy bad products, not even the name of the notion that they are dangerous. Thirdly, it will be possible to ensure public access to the necessary information. Fourthly, we lay the foundation for future legislative money, namely, the systems of prompt mutual warning of suspicious products, that is what our colleagues have been talking about today. In Europe, this system is called Rapex and demonstrates its effectiveness. Ukraine must not invent a bicycle today, but accept the European works that have already proved useful. Fifthly, we are adapting legislation to the norms of the European Union, which is essential for the expansion of our trade and economic relations and relations. Therefore, in principle, with the qualitative use and implementation of this bill, we can achieve results. The Committee proposes that the bill be supported and adopted as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. 4th and 5th Amendment, Simonenko-Marmazov. Microphone, please, Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u105	Well, here's the short version. Given that this is not the case with food products, we proposed the title “To prevent dangerous non-food products from moving around Ukraine”. So we think it's necessary for the law to be called that. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u106	Natalia Yuriovna, suggests that the name of the law be clarified.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, there is no taste and color of lovers here. I think we can also consider our colleagues' proposal. A common position was found to leave the bill in that title. Let's look at the alternative name. You know how? There's not much change in content from the title. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u108	That's how it's accounted for. Dear colleagues, the point is. May I have your attention, please? The President of Ukraine passed a law, a bill entitled “On the Inadmissibility of Traffic in Ukraine of Dangerous Produce”. Taking part of Gorina's amendment into account, the committee proposes to call it "About the overall safety of non-food products". We should properly vote on this amendment because it is the name of the law. So please give the committee a basis for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u109	Once again, distinguished colleagues, there was a discussion in the working group on this title of the bill at a meeting of the committee. An optimal option was found, which took into account both the President's proposals, both from the majority of the Supreme Council and from the opposition. Once again, the Committee does not insist on the unequivocal title of the Presidential Bill. You can therefore vote and consider what Parliament will call the committee and submit the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u110	So, Your Honor, I'm going to put you to the vote for confirmation of amendment number one. If the Supreme Council confirms it, the title of the law will be "For the overall safety of non-food products". If not, then he will remain in the office of the President of Ukraine. Of course, if other suggestions are not taken into account. I'm voting on Amendment 1 to confirm it. Please identify yourself. [[11:12:55]] For 233 So the name of the law is the draft law: "On the overall safety of non-food products." Then let's move on. Then on the 4th, the 5th amendment, do you insist on voting them or not? We already voted. Then you don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u111	The committee’s proposal was taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u112	Jojik, 14th Amendment. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 19th Amendment, Jojik. And the 20th. No, it's not. 21st. No, it's not. Don't you insist on 21st? On the 31st? Okay. 22nd, 23rd Simonenko and Maramazov. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please, Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u113	We propose that this requirement be established not only by law but also by other legislation, given that it is such a sensitive issue. So please vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u114	I am voting on Amendments 22 and 23. [[11:14:29]] For-27 No correction supported. Amendment 27-28. Microphone, Marmazov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u115	It automatically comes out, since it's called that, it's already coming out.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u116	Okay. Thank you. 31, Jojik, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u117	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! Recently, all of us have witnessed how despite the call of the opposition not to adopt the Tax Code in the way it was proposed, the current authorities have voted on the Code. And that led to hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs going to the venues and eventually the president vetoed the bill. Today we have a similar situation, if we do not recognize the obligation to comply with the requirements of the regulations, if there are no technical regulations, a large number of high-risk products will not be market surveillance and the law will not work. And manufacturers who produce products under technical conditions will find themselves in a more profitable position. Their products and market surveillance authorities do not have the right to verify the bill. As a result.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u118	Please complete the formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u119	As a result, law - abiding manufacturers and consumers will suffer. So I'm asking the coalition not to lead to a situation where thousands of consumers will go out again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues! This is the position of the committee, but he didn't support the amendment. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! In order to prevent our consumers from going to the arenas and producers from being able to compete in the competitive market, the executive power today has every opportunity to complete the development of technical regulations within a month, thus creating a single, European world-appropriate working rules and standards of work in the internal market. If we continue to give incentives to power, not to enact laws, not to impose controls on products that are counterfeited and smuggled, to be present in our markets, to prioritize the destruction of the domestic producer and to give priority to the importing producer, we lose our 40 million domestic market, we lose our producer. We therefore believe that it is necessary to create, today, an opportunity for the authorities to develop technical regulations and for manufacturers to produce competitive products that are protected from controllers.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u122	So your amendment is not supported in this way. I'm putting her to a vote for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The 31st amendment is voted. [[11:17:55]] For-9 Correction not supported. Amendment 34. Eugene Kirilchuk. No, it's not. 35th. Jojik. Are you insisting on her? Jojik. 46th. No, it's not. Jojik. 53rd. 57th and 58th. Simonenko, Marmazov. Please 57, 58, and then we'll go back to 40.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u123	Vladimir Mihajlovich, we propose that this law enter into force on 1 January 2012. Here the Royal reported that it took six months to develop technical regulations. In 20 years, seven, and now 23 in six months, that's bullshit, that's not gonna happen. We therefore propose to postpone the implementation of this law in order to develop these technical regulations and adapt them to our national standards. To solve the problem, by the way, and by doing so, we will select samples for the test, but it is not clear who will finance it. If this is not included in the budget, it is not possible to select samples. I therefore insist that we vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u124	Thank you very much. With regard to the duration of this law, I have said my position as a national MP. And I support my colleague that the time limit for the introduction of this law can be extended. There is a committee decision in which the majority of the Committee is represented by the majority of parliaments and there is a compromise agreement to postpone the bill for at least six months rather than to introduce the bill as it was in the first edition of 1 January 2011. That's why this room has to be defined. With regard to who will finance the selection of samples, the position of the committee is clear that the financing of the selection and control of the internal market should be based only on the budget and not on producers, traders in the markets. Because if it's now possible for controllers to go to the market to pick up, they're going to leave the markets with bags, but not with control products. If a State is in a position to control the internal market, in a position to guarantee product safety for citizens, let the State provide and finance a system that will be responsible for this control and monitoring. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on Amendments 57 and 58. [[11:21:16]] For-30 Correction not supported. Yeah, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u126	40th.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u127	The 40th Amendment is Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin. Page 16, 40 amendment, reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u129	I'm telling you again, it's not the law, we've already reviewed and adopted that law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u130	Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u131	This is the next law, well Yuri Anatolyevich is the registration number 7094, and you're obviously talking about the previous law. Yuri Anatolyevich, you're talking about the previous law, we've already passed it. You agreed, didn't you? So please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the amendments. Today, we have considered two basic important documents, which for the first time have been able to reform the standardization and certification system in our country. We have taken a serious enough step, a responsible step, a good outcome in quality implementation, a terrible result in poor performance. Therefore, dear colleagues, I would like to call on everyone to focus on how these laws will be implemented, to ensure parliamentary control, to assist our executive systems so that we can build a certification and standardization system, an internal market protection system and our domestic producers to create competitive products and a competitive economy in our country. And so that no horrible tax codes prevent us from building a competitive Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u133	They're still insisting. Just a minute. Carmazine, 45th Amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin. In this version of the law, it's 45th. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I would like to pay attention to all the national deputies and welcome today the opposition with a very serious victory, because the Constitutional Court has just declared unconstitutional three rules of the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2010—articles 14, 24, 64, paragraph seven, chapter VP of the Transitional Regulations. And that means, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we all have to get together urgently and think about what to do, because the budget has to be done on an old tax base. With regard to this amendment. And many more consequences, I advise the government to gather now, to write a resignation application to someone. And in this amendment, I propose article 15, "Responsibility for breach of requirements", as a complement to the Code on Administrative Offences. Since this law cannot establish this responsibility, it must be.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u135	I'll bet the vote on amendment 45. [[11:24:41]] For the 18th. Correction not supported. Jojik's microphone, please, what's the correction? Jojik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u136	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Once again, I would like to stress that we welcome the abolition of the state's Hindu surveillance and the transition to the market surveillance market in Europe. But any matter has to be done in a professional and realistic manner. In our time, we built communism in 20 years. In our two - month period, we adopted the Tax Code, where four years were involved in other countries. From my point of view, the proposal in six months to do what is proposed in this conclusion is similar to the previous facts that I have called. So our proposal is for the law to take effect on January 1, 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u137	I'm betting on the vote for Jaroslav Jojik, this is Amendment 56. [[11:26:02]] For-23 Correction not accepted. So, honourable national MPs, 50? 61st, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u138	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National MPs, "The End of Positions" are very important positions. Listen to the Constitutional Court, which just canceled the State Budget Act's End Position. I think it's at least 10 billion to find now. And use. And Karmazin proposes to add new paragraphs 4 and 5 to the section “The End of Positions” with the following new paragraphs: “To entrust members of the Committee on Rules, Deputies Ethics and Ensuring the Work of the Supreme Council within a three-month period of development, to submit to the Supreme Council a draft law amending the Rules approved by law, to amend the prohibition of the introduction to the Supreme Council of legislators of new primary legislative acts in the event that they relate to the subject matter of the provision of valid primary legislative acts, as well as the incorporation, systemization and codification of the laws of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Without this adoption of laws, we are completely stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u139	I'll bet on the vote 61 of the amendment. [[11:27:45]] For-12. No correction supported. Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u140	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The faction of the Company will not vote in favour of this law for what reasons. First, I believe that the biggest mistake that has been made is that these laws, which set standards especially for food, essential goods and many other things, are now determined by those who produce, i.e. owners. In this situation, consideration of these laws shows that business owners protect their interests rather than the interests of the consumer. Secondly, the very dangerous trend is that the assumptions go to European standards, because Europe has long regarded Ukraine as a sinkhole, and here I am huddled with the fact that our capital representatives are bringing this mess all the way down here. Border control is being removed, sanitation is being removed, and Ukraine is in fact becoming a concentration camp, not an experiment zone. Because if you said before, let's say there's meat in the sausage or not, there's no meat in the sausage today. And you sell anything. That's why you're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u141	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee suggests that we accept it as a law in the second reading. The Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill can be adopted in a second reading, followed by a third reading. I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee as a whole as a bill of the draft law on the non-inclusion of circulation in Ukraine of dangerous products. [[Registration number 7094]] Please vote. [[11:29:46]] For 227 The law is passed. The factions, please. Region Party – 171, “BUT – Fatherland” – 1, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 19, Communists – 0, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 16. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the Legal Regime of Lands of Protective Areas of Mainway Pipeways. [[Registration number 0960]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Bebezenko Valerij Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u142	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft law on the protection zones of highway pipelines was adopted on June 5, 2007. The bill provides for the establishment of a legal regime for the protection zones of highway pipelines. The bill’s relevance is that, until now, there has been no legal order for activities within the specified zones. Such a situation leads to uncontrolled construction in such areas and, on the other hand, to violations of the rights of landowners who are located in these areas. In the process of drafting the draft for second reading, a working group was set up that took into account the numerous proposals made by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issues of the fuel and energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear safety, Minpalevenergo, Statecomemem, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, DC Ukrtransgas, VAT "Ukrtransnafta". The draft legislation proposed for the second reading is fully supported by all the bodies listed. A number of provisions have been included in the drafting process, which significantly improve State regulation in the security zones of the main pipelines. In general, the subject matter of the legislative initiative was introduced into Bill 51 amendments and proposals, from which it is proposed to reject only 4. At the same time, it should be noted that the bill is important to the State. Unlike existing legislation, it contains an active mechanism for the establishment and enforcement of land restrictions and use of areas located in the protection zones of the main pipelines and for the parity of interests, on the one hand, for the enterprises of the main pipelines and on the other, for landowners and land users. In view of the above, the Committee suggests recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill on second reading and generally as a law. But. against the adoption by the committee of the above-mentioned decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority, some comments were made to the bill, which is why we consider it appropriate to send the bill for re-reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u143	Dear National Deputies! Let's support the committee's proposal to work on the proposals of the General Legal Authority and then re-read the second reading. There's no objection. I am voting on the proposal to re-read the draft Law on the Legal Regime of Land Protection Areas of Mainway Pipeways. Please vote. [[11:34:00]] For 296 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime is being introduced. [[on Investigation Units]] [[Registration number 6384]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the fight against organized crime and corruption by Rybek Alexander Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u144	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! For your consideration, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Organizational and Legal Basis for Combating Organized Crime is presented for your second reading. [[on Investigation Units]] The bill proposes to exclude from Ukraine’s law the rules that establish that the investigation teams are part of the structure of units to combat organized crime and are subordinated to the head of the knowledge body. In the process of working on a bill from law enforcement entities, only two proposals were made, which are still proposed. The committee rejected these proposals because, to our conviction, it would create a certain dependence of the investigating authorities on the head of the special task force to fight crime, which contradicts the functional separation of the knowledge organs and the investigative apparatus in the criminal procedure system of the pretrial investigation bodies. The Committee decided on 3 November: to recommend to the Supreme Council a second reading and the whole draft of the Ukrainian Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Organised Crime. [[on Investigation Units]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u145	As amended, please. Yuri Carmazin, first amendment. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question. Think about this: Isn't the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the body of knowledge? The Minister of Internal Affairs is the person in charge of the learning body. And we're saying that we want to reform this way in just one unit. Well, let's be honest! If we reform, let's adopt the law that Mr. Yushchenko once imposed, which was called "The Status of the Investigator", which I introduced. Then let's conclude that we need to create a separate committee of inquiry if we have these arguments where there will be absolutely no bodies of knowledge that govern it. As a result, my amendment relates to the fact that the Chief of Investigations, who provides special units to combat organized crime and corruption of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is acting as Deputy Chief of Investigation. And as long as there's no new KPC, it could be, and it could be justified, as long as we have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u147	I'm not against the money you're talking about, but experience has shown that in a year of subordination of this and entry of the investigation unit into the special unit on the effectiveness of the unit's work, it didn't affect it, but also for the information that came to us from the G.U.B.O., and from the Chief Investigation Department, the pressure on the investigator at G.U.B.O. 15-20 times lower than in the General Investigation Department. We find this work ineffective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u148	I'm betting on the vote for the amendment of the first Yuri Carmazin. [[11:37:56]] For -6 No correction supported. Yes, Karmazin's second amendment, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u149	Yuri Carmazin. I would like to thank everyone who supported my revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u150	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u151	By analyzing the workload in the task force to divide the category of cases, whether it's a mannequin theft, or an organized criminal group, let's say it's a big difference. Because if we share the effort, look at the investigative agencies of the Ukrainian Security Service and you'll see that it's 130 times lower than the investigative IMF, but we're not destroying the entire investigation unit, let's say the Security Service is only on this argument. That's why I think, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that conceptually these issues need to be resolved and obviously not in this law. We need to adopt an urgent new Code of Criminal Procedure, raise the status of investigator. It should not be reduced to plentus. And I don't insist on voting on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u152	Thank you. Honorable colleagues may also have the right logic that if you solve a problem, you have to solve it in a complex way.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u153	I think this problem will be solved with the adoption of the anti-corruption package, where these aspects of the special division's work are foreseen. Let's wait. Thank you. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. A number of comments were made by the Chief Legal Authority. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Organizational and Legal Basis for Combating Organized Crime. [[on Investigation Units]] [[Registration number 6384]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:40:14]] For 278 The law is passed. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I now propose a draft of the Law on the Moratorium for the Elimination of Green Plants on Certain Objects in the Green Farms of Kiev. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Disaster Management, Ivan Alexandrovich Hajac. Registration number 2393.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill envisions the establishment of a moratorium on the removal of green plants on individual objects in the well - being and green economy of Kiev. The purpose of this bill is to prevent the massive removal of green plants, causing adverse effects on the natural environment, sanitary and recreational conditions of life and the health of citizens and their aesthetic upbringing. The first reading of the bill was adopted on March 31, this year. May I remind you, Your Honor, that 354 deputies voted in favour of the bill in the first reading. In addition, the bill is supported by the general public. Then we considered it again, and there was a decision to reconsider. The committee recommends that the bill be adopted in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u156	I think this problem will be solved with the adoption of the anti-corruption package, where these aspects of the special division's work are foreseen. Let's wait. Thank you. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. A number of comments were made by the Chief Legal Authority. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Organizational and Legal Basis for Combating Organized Crime. [[on Investigation Units]] [[Registration number 6384]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:40:14]] For 278 The law is passed. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I now propose a draft of the Law on the Moratorium for the Elimination of Green Plants on Certain Objects in the Green Farms of Kiev. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Disaster Management, Ivan Alexandrovich Hajac. Registration number 2393.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill envisions the establishment of a moratorium on the removal of green plants on individual objects in the well - being and green economy of Kiev. The purpose of this bill is to prevent the massive removal of green plants, causing adverse effects on the natural environment, sanitary and recreational conditions of life and the health of citizens and their aesthetic upbringing. The first reading of the bill was adopted on March 31, this year. May I remind you, Your Honor, that 354 deputies voted in favour of the bill in the first reading. In addition, the bill is supported by the general public. Then we considered it again, and there was a decision to reconsider. The committee recommends that the bill be adopted in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention, and please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u159	Let's do some repairs. Yuri Carmazin, first amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u160	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! This law should be adopted, but the name should be changed. Think about it. It's called "The Green Planting Moratorium on individual objects in the green economy of Kiev". And since there are such actors in Kharkiv, there are Kernes, Dobkin, and so on, what will be the separate law on Kharkiv, the separate law on Odessa, the separate law on Donetsk, the Chernigs, and all other cities? It's not serious. Because of this, I have a constructive proposal, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, to replace the name with the name, by distributing the law throughout Ukraine, the right proposition of the Hare, but we need to distribute it, proposing changes to the laws on environmental protection, the plant world, the Red Book and the well-being of the population. All right, dot. I beg your pardon, I don't understand why it didn't go through with you. Ladies and gentlemen, think.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u161	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u162	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u163	It didn't pass, Mr. Yuri, because we voted in the first reading of Kiev itself, that's the first. And we can no longer extend this standard to the entire territory of Ukraine in a second reading. I would say that both Deputy Karpuk and the other deputies are proposing to make this bill more difficult, especially because of responsibility. But we do have the Rules, and we follow the Rules, so we didn't extend it to the whole territory. On the other hand, we, the majority of the deputies, live in Kiev and see the intense destruction of green plantings in Kiev. So I think we should start at least from the capital of Ukraine and then this process goes on. And the solution to the global problem is to adopt a law on green planting. And here's the law, if it's about green planting, then we're going to solve this global problem that Mr. Carmazin is talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u164	I bet on the vote of Amendment No. 1. [[11:44:16]] For-40 No correction supported. Amendment 4. Carmazine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u165	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you just don't understand right now and Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechtev didn't realize that the law only applies to the green zone of Kiev. Why are there no problems in other cities? You know, we can't go against the law. Students will laugh at you, people will laugh at you, people who are good, why you correct your mistakes, and they will be ashamed to talk. Should I say I didn't vote or something? You can't do that. Go back to the amendment, vote. Then I won't talk about any other amendments, it's just a shame for the Supreme Council. There is no law in any country of the world under the rule of a single city. What we're doing, we'll be with you guys soon, sorry, everybody knows what I'm talking about right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u166	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 4, Yuri Carmazin. [[11:45:54]] Z-11. No correction supported. Amendment 5. Carpuk Volodymyr, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u167	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". I would like to emphasize to you, Mr. People's MPs, that this bill, registered in the Supreme Council on June 3, 2008, is almost 2.5 years old, we've been looking at it. During this time, so many green plants have been destroyed, so this bill will have to be adopted today. I ask everyone to vote for him in general. I will not insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u168	Thank you. 7th Amendment. It is required to be put to the vote for confirmation. Please. We've already voted on the 4th. Take it easy, Yuri Anatolyovich. No, no, you didn't have a second amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u169	Vladimir Mikhailovich, take your words back.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u170	You've got a second amendment. It's a second amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u171	That's the second thing I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u172	That's how it's counted. Yuri Anatolyevich, we voted. I'll put it to a vote. Yuri Anatolyevich, I put her to the vote for the fourth amendment. I said, take the stenographer. I wasn't talking about the other one, she's counted. Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u173	You can accept this amendment. But the words "and others" should be deleted. Because we give a list of social and cultural objects here, we write: “medical, school, kindergartens, museums, art galleries, libraries.” That is a perfectly fair list, and then “and others” in the bill “and others” do not write. That's why I think it's wrong. So if you remove these two, we'll say "and others," then you can vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u174	I'm voting on Soloshank's amendment to confirm it fully. Please make a decision. [[11:48:14]] For 205 The correction is not entirely taken into account, but partly counted. Partially counted, just like the committee you want. She's staying in the committee's office. Ivan Alexanderovich, what do you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u175	In general, we do not vote on the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u176	Well, they don't vote like that, so what do we do then? Please, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u177	Mr. Chechatov! I think it could be accepted if you take away those words: "and others." Because lawyers will tell us that you can't write there and anyone will say that you can't write in the law "and other" objects. And so there will be an exclusive list of objects, and I think the right part will vote and then you can accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u178	I put to the vote this amendment, taking into account John the Rabbit's proposal. Please vote. [[11:49:34]] For 258. Counted. 10 repairs to Vladimir Karpuka. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u179	Dear National Deputies, there is a threat of destruction of the green plantations, first of all, we know the Dniprovsky Islands, which are the conservation zones. It is now practical that if we accepted amendment number 7 as a whole, we would like to remind ourselves that virtually the land areas under the construction of the Euro-2012 objects have been allocated. But at the same time, with numerous violations of conservation, destruction of green plantings, we are not responsible for the destruction of green plantings in this bill. And I insist on voting in the room for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u180	I'm betting on the vote on Amendment 10 of Vladimir Karpuk. [[11:50:53]] For-13. What's your name? Yes, Yuri Carmazin, 15th Amendment. Yuri Anatolyevich, you've got 15 revisions!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u181	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 15, I propose that the fourth part of two articles 5 be drafted as follows: “Envelop, during 2010, the inventory of conservation facilities in cities and other populated areas, including green parks, forest parks and recreational areas. The language goes, Your Honor, on what we have to think and understand is a law that is passed on behalf of Ukraine. And that's why the task that we're giving right now is to provide this inventory, especially necessary. And I would like the amendment that we have voted to be aware of and to appeal to the government so that all landings and squabbles will not be destroyed in the construction of the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u182	I'll put it to a vote. It's all gonna be fair now. I'm voting on Amendment 15. Please be sure. [[11:52:38]] Z-11. Correction not accepted. And all the problems are solved here. Vladimir Karpuk. Well, by September 1st, you can't have this amendment. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u183	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm not insisting on this amendment, and I'm not insisting on the next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u184	Thank you. So then all the amendments are taken into account. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u185	Well, I'd like you to support me as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u186	Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. The principal legal authority has a point to this law. On the basis of the regulatory rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Law on the Moratorium for the Removal of Green Plants on Certain Objects to the well - being of the land of the city of Kiev. Registration number 2393. [[11:53:56]] For 341 The law is passed. So, are we gonna start a new one or not? Now the next law, the draft law more specifically, amending some Ukrainian legislation on coastal protection strips. [[Registration number 2642]] Reporter: Sergey Glazunov, Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Let's do some repairs right now. Novikova, Voropeyev. Are you insisting on your amendment? No, it's not. Carmazine, 4th partial count. How's it going? Thank you. I was a woman, 11 years old. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Next. Novikova, Voropeyev, 22nd. No, it's not. 30th, Novikova, Voropeyev. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u187	I would like to draw your attention to the following. According to this law, it is prohibited to build anything other than hydropower in the coastal strip. But we believe that the law should not have retroactive force. What, then, about all the sanatoriums that were built, say, in the Crimea? The coastline is 2 km away, and if the slope is still on the coast, it doubles by 4 km. I mean, I believe that this rule should either be excluded from the law, once or at least the following amendment by our colleague Landik to take into account that this rule applies only to future relations but not to the previous period of time. Otherwise, we're gonna have to take half the Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, this is the 30th Amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u189	I would like to say that there are 33 amendments to Novikov and Voropeyeva, which consider that this law applies to the legal relationship that arose after the law became effective. What you're talking about. It is, it counts 33 of yours. And that's why. Landika too. That's why I think we can agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u190	Are you insisting on the amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u191	No, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u192	No, it's not. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u193	Well, the committee's decision is next. The committee considered it carefully. I would like to say that the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. And please support and adopt the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u194	Yeah, she's counted, they told you. Landik, 31st, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u195	Dear friends! Voropaev said what to do with what was already built. Even the Supreme Council sanatorium. Everything that's on the shore has to be broken and it's two kilometers away, everything's broken. But we also have other relationships. The city, village, village councils had already issued a permit that year or beyond. People got leased for construction, got projects. And all of this was based on legislation. So I'm asking that we put this in place for future advice that will not put the land under construction, which is what people should be building. Otherwise, the courts, corruption again, bribes again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u196	Yeah, it's already been counted. This law applies to the legal relationship that arose after it became effective. This has already been taken into account. Counted. Please, Voropeyev. And don't talk about the Supreme Council again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u197	I won't talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u198	Because if anyone is interested, we must bring the Supreme Council here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u199	I'm sorry. So pay attention. On a legal basis, you speak quite correctly, from the chairman of the committee, it is correct that the future, yes, is taken into account here in the last amendment. Everything's great. But if you read article 62, paragraph 2, of which we are speaking, and which Mr. Landik has made an application, he says, “In relation to the prohibition of construction”. He does not say “with regard to the prohibition. To conclude a contract, to grant permission", the construction of the facility itself. If we take Landik's amendment into account, it'll all be true. Oh, that's right, that makes sense. Otherwise, an official by reason of his mentality will say, "Yes, we do. You don't have to give a new permit. It is forbidden to give new permission, but the old building must be demolished.”
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u200	Please reposition the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u201	The position of the committee is as follows. That this bill is new. The bill refers to the legal relations that arose after their entry into force. All the legal relations that are already in existence are valid and legal. So if there is a point, let the room be determined by this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u202	Well then, your honor, since we've had such an argument here, I'm going to put to the vote amendment 31 by the People's MP Landik. Please. [[12:00:20]] For 208 Correction not supported. Yes, please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u203	The committee's decision to support and adopt it as a whole is a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u204	Dear National Deputies! I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on coastal protection lanes. [[Registration number 2642]] [[12:01:04]] For 260 The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u205	Please invite the people's deputies to the conference room. Ladies and gentlemen, traditionally Thursday at 12 o'clock in 30 minutes, we are discussing the question of the election and release of judges. The rapporteur is Head of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges Samsin Igor Leonovich and Head of the High Council of Justice Koleschenko Volodymyr Mikolajovic. Please invite Igor Leonovich. Let's go by the decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u206	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! According to part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53 and 64 of this Act, and examined the referral of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities to the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who had reached the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine by the State during the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to elect a judge. In accordance with article 128, paragraph 27, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78, of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, I submit a decision to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine on the recommendation of candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u207	Let's call it 7368, shall we?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u208	Yes, 7368.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u209	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u210	Select judges previously elected without delay in the positions of judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Kochana Vladimir Martinović; the Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Borsuk Peter Pavlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Žizniewski Jury Vasilovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region of Speech of Vladimir Ivanovich, Dimarecki Viktor Mikhajlovich, Zagorajka Vitalija Volodymyrovich, Polsenka Vasil Stepanović; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Belene Albert Viktorovich, Berezuk Oleg Grigorovitch, Mikhaluk Vasil Olexiovich, Stelmah Igor Orestovic; the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai district of Minnail Mikola Pavlovich, Rudjak Andrija Volodimirovic; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Tarvierdiev Tarvierdy Avchihanović; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava district of Batrak Vitali Volodymirovich; the Court of Appeal of the Protasov district of Volodymyr Illić, Copenka Jaroslav Viktorovich; the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region of Novikov Oleg Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Beca Alexander Vadimovitch, Kuzmina Anatolia Stepanovič, Lashevitch Valerija Mikolaiovich, Malinovsky Oleg Adolfovich, Igor Grigorovitch; The Žitomir Administrative Court of Kaputinski Mikhailovich, Kouzmenko Lubov Vasilovna, Franovska Katerina Sergiyovna, Hajuk Sergey Mikolayovich; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Fedotov Igor Vyacheslavovich; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Koval Roman Josephovich; Shevchenkovsky District Court of Kyiv Kurovsky Sergija Viktorovich; Balaklav District Court of the town of Sevastopol Haponov Dmitry Yuriovich; Gagarin District Court of Sevastopol Szczerbakov Vladislav Valeriyovich Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 7368]] Please vote. [[12:35:24]] For 318 Decision taken. Thank you. Now it's regulation 7368-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u212	Select judges previously elected without delay in the positions of judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Hare Vladimir Stepanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrovsk District of Kovalenk Vasil Dmitrovic; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Savchenka Sergey Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd district of Drano Valeri Viktorovich; the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Kupelska Anatolia Vadimovitch; the Court of Appeal of the Cerkas region of Toropenka Mikola Vasilovich; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Hudik Mikola Pavlovich; Odessa District Administrative Court Bjasso Natal Volodymyrovna, Gusev Alexander Gennadijovich, Aleksandrovitch. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u213	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like you to support me. Your attention, as the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges is on the vote. [[Registration number 7368-1]] Please vote. [[12:36:58]] For 317 Decision taken. Now, the Bill of Decree 7368-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u214	Choose judges on an untimely basis: Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal, Chepurnov Denis Vasilovich; The Žitomir Administrative Court of Appeal, Eupak Valentina Vasilovna; The Lenin district court of Vinnice, Sal Taras Bogdanović; Vorosilov District Court of Donetsk Miruta Olga Anatoliyevna Olewsky District Court of the Žitomir district of Voloschuk Viktor Vasilovich; Kyivo-Svetoshinsky District Court of the Kyiv district of Lysenk Vladislav Viktorovich; Rowenkov City Court of Luhansk district Shumchenko Lina Volodymyrna; The Artemian District Court of Luhansk Truffanov Marina Alexandrovna; The New York District Court of the Mikolai district of Barankewich Valerija Olegovna; The ship's district court of Mikolayeva Selishtevo Larissa Ivanovna; Ovidiopolski District Court of Odessa District Cat Volodymyr Kostinović; From the district court of Ravenna district of Shuljak Andrija Stepanović I would like to inform you that the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine has been calling for its submission since 12 November 2010 to the election of Jakimczuk Olga Mikolayivna as judge of the District Court of Korea to determine the circumstances impeding the recommendation of a candidate to serve as judge, only after recommendation of a criminal case has been brought against her. Next. The Congregational District Court of Ternopil district of Snigurski Valeri Viktorovich; Dniprovsky District Court of Herson Reshetov Vadim Valentinović Kamyanec-Podil County Court of Hmelnicke District of Sweden, Olen Dmitrovna; Smilyan District Court of Cherkas, Demčik Roman Vasilovich. And I would like to report that the judge of the Solomonese District Court of Kiev, Oxuta Taras Grigorovich, sent a telegram to the Head of the Supreme Council requesting that his candidacy be postponed in connection with his stay in medical care. The Lord's Court of the Žitomir district of Gansek Vladimir Petrovich; The household court of the Luhansk district of Jaresko Bogdan Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u215	Thank you. Dear National Deputies, in view of the fact that the letter from the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine concerning the postponement of consideration of the issue of Kajimczuk Olga Mikolayivna, is the Korat District Court of the Plains region, we delete that name. And in view of the fact that there is a telegram in my name, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine requested to postpone consideration of the issue of Oxuta Taras Grigorovich, this is the Solomon District Court of Kiev. We're also removing that last name. And in view of that, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Judges. Please vote. [[12:40:54]] For the 320. Decision taken. Now it's a draft decision. [[Registration number 7368-3]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u216	Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Equal Court of Appeal by Briginette Larissa Mikolayevna, Demiduk Oksana Alexandrovna; Simferopol District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Sikorsk Natal Ivanovna; The Feodosian City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by Bastard Vadim Anatoliyovich; The Yellow District Court of Dnipropetrovska Idea Sergey Mikolaiovich; Malinsky District Court of the Zitomir district of Timoshenko Andrija Alexandrovich; Biloukurakina District Court of Luhansk, Maksimenko Olen Jurijovna; Regional Regional Court of Luhansk, Sobolev Evgen Olegovich; The Galician District Court of Lvov Strelbické Vitali Viktorovich; The Central District Court of the City of Mikolayeva Podzigun Galin Volodymyrna; Grebinkov district court of Poltava district Krivchun Tamara Alexiyevna; The Orgitsky District Court of Poltava district of Malichenk Vasil Volodymirovic; The Grand Duchy of the Herson district court of Mamayev Vitaliy Anatoliyovich; The Scottish District Court of the Herson district of Vedmedsk Nela Ivanovna; The Komsomol District Court of Herson Musulevsky Jaroslav Andriyovich; Czernigiv County District Court of Grodnian Dmitr Parfentijovich; The impugned District Administrative Court of Malish Natalia Ivanovna; Odessa District Administrative Court of Zavalník Igor Viktorovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I am introducing a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges. [[Registration number 7368-3]] Please vote. [[12:43:27]] For 313 Decision taken. Now it's Project Decision. [[Registration number 7368-4]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u218	To elect Vuk Ivan Volodymyrovich, previously elected on an indefinite basis, is the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine as judge of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, please vote on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the judge. [[Registration number 7368-4]] [[12:44:15.]] For 321 Decision taken. Now it's Project Decision. [[Registration number 7368-5]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u220	Choose judges on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of the District of Lviv, Romanyuk Mikhail Feodosijovich; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Mósóndz Ivan Anatoliyovich; The factory district court of Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska District of Savranski Timur Antonović; Lysicán City Court of Lugansk, Berezin Andrija Grigoryovich; The Severerodonian City Court of Luhansk, Olijnik Victoria Mikolayevna; Volodymyrecki District Court of the Provosk Region Vitali Anatoliyyovich; The Ternopil Regional Court of the Ternopil region of Tiho Irina Mikolayevna; Kamyanec, the District Court of the Hmeljna Region of Miljedek Jaroslav Ivanovich; Righteous District Court of Kyiv Hayla Irina Anatoliyevna; Vassišin Andrija Romanović, Regional Economic Court of Ravens; the commercial court of Kyiv Kopitov Olen Sergiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u221	Yes, honourable national MPs are being put to the vote by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of judges for registration number 7368-5. Please vote. [[12:45:58]] For 336 Decision taken. Now, draft Rule 7368-6, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u222	To elect judges previously elected as judges of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine: Alexander Mikolaiovich, Staroduba Alexandre Pavlovich, Zverkun Yuri Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Elizarenko Irma Anatoliyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Music by Sergija Lazarevich; the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Gansek Irina Arkadyevna, Kotica Vitali Petrovich; the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv district of Vasilkovsky Vladimir Methodiusovich, Consignor Lilyu Vasilovna, Popovic Stepan Stepanović; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Verlanova Sergio Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai District of Semenchuk Alexandre Vasilovich; The Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Bolotin, Sergey Mikolayovich, Bondar Valentina Viktorovna, Greenchuk Ruslan Stepanovich, Zrejena Inna Volodymyrovna, Kobrin Igor Georgievich, Korniyuk Alla Petrovna, Kulesh Larissa Mikhailnovna, Pient Inna Vasilovna, Talaly Olga Ivanovna, Trochymczuk Alexija Alexiyyovich, Fandu Vladimir Petrovich; The Court of Appeal of Kiev Mahlai Ludmila Dmitrovna, Nejura Vadim Anatoliyovich, Tobacco Tetjan Mikolayovna, Žuk Olga Volodymyrovna, Polishchuk Natalija Valeriyevna; The Winning Court of Appeal of the Golot Ludmila Olegovna, the Fugitive Maria Sergiyevna; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Vasilyev Irina Anatolyevna; The Žitomir Administrative Court of Appeal, Polishchuk Mikol Georgievic; Kyiv's Administrative Court of Appeal, Isainenko Yulia Anatoliyevna; Dnipropetrov's Court of Appeal Temkizhev Igor Hažmuridovich; The Plain Court of Appeal by Grzeznov Vasil Vladimirovich, Gudak Alla Volodymyrovna, Kolomis Victoria Viktorovna, Matichuk Angel Benjaminovna, Melnik Oleg Volodymyrovich, Gardener of Constantine Mikhailovich, Alexyuk Hanna Evgeniyevna, Petuhov Mikhail Georgiyovich, Sinicin Larissa Mihailovna; Sevastopol’s Court of Appeal Balukov Catherine Georgieva; Kamyanec, Delilian District Court of Hmeljna County, Savchuk Roman Ivanovich Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges. [[Registration number 7368-6]] Please vote. [[12:49:29]] For 338 Decision taken. Draft regulation, please. [[Registration number 7298]] Do you have everything? Thank you, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to welcome the judges whom we have just elected to office on an untimely basis and to wish them the faithful service of the law in good health. [[Applause]] Now I'm asking Vladimir Mikolaiovich the Wheeler. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u226	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! The Supreme Council of Justice at its meetings on 11 October, 1 November, 15 November this year, pursuant to article 126, paragraph 9, of the Fifth Section, article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, article 31 of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the release of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, higher specialized courts, appeals and local courts from positions under general circumstances. However, she decided to make appropriate submissions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The judges have found out what their real will is. There is no adverse influence or coercion in their decision to release. The Supreme Council of Justice proposes that the following judges be dismissed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u227	May I have your attention, fellow officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u228	Orders, draft decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u229	7298, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u230	On the release of judges from office: judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine: Judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Vreestak Vera Mikolayevna - in connection with the application for resignation; Lihutu Ljubov Mikolayevna - in connection with the application for resignation; Mazurka Vladimir Antonović - in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Salesman Ludmila Valerievna, in connection with the submission of the resignation application; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Zitomir district of Balaskewicz, Sergio Viktorovich, in connection with the submission of the resignation application; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Odessa District of Grib Boris Mikolayovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Poltava District of Sleupuhu Alexander Evgeniyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Žitomir Farm Court of Appeal, Gorskov Natalija Fedorovna, in connection with the application for resignation, Zavezun Vasil Stepanović, in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Luhansk Economic Court of Appeal, Žuravlov Love Ivanovna, Zujewicz Azu Musa Kiza, in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Simferopol District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Anatolia Alexiyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Donetsk Region, Bozyn Ludmila Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation, Dzeub Nadia Alexandrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Yasinavat District Court of the Donetsk Region of Dobrorez Anatolia Vasilovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Lenin District Court of Donetsk Ivanov John Pavlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Boguslav District Court of the Kyiv district of Bakumenko Anatolia Sergiyyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Fastov Regional Court of Kiev, Naumenk Mikol Antonović, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Tallinn District Court of the Cherka district of Kuhar Mikola Pavlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Bobrovicki District Court of Czernigiv County, Ivan Ivan Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Justice of the Ministry of Justice of the Chernigiv region of Bilous Mikhail Vasilovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Gagarin District Court of Sevastopol Nesteruk Vadim Volodymirovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Military Court of Kharkiv Garrison of Juryev Ivan Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Order 7298 on the release of judges. Please vote. [[12:54:03]] For the 320. Decision taken. Now, draft regulation 7298-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u232	Judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Danchuk Valerija Georiyovich – in connection with the application for resignation, Levchenka Evgen Fedorovich – in connection with the submission of the resignation application, Spečaj Vladimir Saveliyovich – in connection with the submission of the resignation application; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Valentina Aleksiyevna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Bondarenko Ludmila Ivanovna, Visniewski Ivan Ivanovich, Lukyan Svetlana Vasilovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv Region Ladik Jaroslav Ivanovich – in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd district of Bebazia Leonidovich, Spiridon Larissa Stepanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Court of Appeal of the Lviv RegionBruch Bogdan Ivanovna, Zazul Igor Evgenović, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Kharkiv Province of Tobacco Natal Gabrielovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Baule Nadia Mikhailna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Majdanuk, Catherine Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region of Burlak Vasil Aleksandrovitch, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv Region of ReddekAnatolia Grigorovitch, in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Court of Appeal of Sevastopol: Hermolayev Tetjana Alexandrovna, Rahnenko Olga Vasilovna, Teleženkov Raís Mikhaylovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Military Court of Appeal of the Armed Forces of the Sea, Anatolia Fedorovic, in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of Zaporzik’s Court of Appeal: Nina Dmitrovna’s Box, Jacenko Olga Mikolayevna — in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of Kyiv's Court of Appeal, Grigorovitch Alexander Mihajlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Luhansk Farm Court of Appeal, Paramonov Tetjana Fedorovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Odessa of the Court of Appeal, Zhukov Alla Mikolayevna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Kharkiv Chamber of Commerce Takmakova Jurija Vasilovich – in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Yaltin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Šumov Volodymira Vasilovich – in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Chargord District Court of the Winnitsk district of Trofimczuk Mikol Yuhimovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Novomoskov Regional Court of Dnipropetrova District of Greece, Mr. Vadim Anatoliyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Pavlovrad Regional Court of the Dnipropetrov Region of Hrischenko Petar Alexiyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Babuskini District Court of Dnipropetrovska Maksimenka Alexandre Ilarionovič, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Provincial District Court of the Donetsk RegionKuzmin Aleksandro Volodymyrovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Dobropil District Court of Donetsk Region, Tanic Leonid Mihajlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Snowznian City Court of the Donetsk Region of Bikadorov Viktor Mikolaiovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Toresky City Court of the Donetsk RegionSavkova Sergia Alexandrovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Mining District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk Region of the city ofZaugène Evgen Pavlovich and Stacie's Galina Mikolayevna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Kirov District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk Region of Negoda Olen Mikolayevna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Soviet District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk Region Triputin Tamara Mikolayovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Central City District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk Region of Mironek Viktor Vasilovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Baraniv District Court of the Zitomir Region, Valery Petrovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Berdichov District Court of the Žitomir District of Šimk Vasil Petrovic – in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Lubar District Court of the Žitomir Region of Palamarczuk Vasil Mikolayovich, in connection with the application for a state of health pension which impedes the continuation of the duties; Judge of the Brovarsky District Court of Kiev Bendik Olga Grigorovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Anthracite District Court of Luhansk RegionHoncharov Ludmila Alexandrovna, Tolstyh Olga Viktorovna, Hodriev Irina Vasilovna, Holin Viktor Vasilovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Jawtne District Court of the Mikolai DistrictDužuk Anatolia Ivanovich – in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Zynkowski District Court of Poltava, Gerasimenka Mikol Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Trostyanec District Court of Sumskie DistrictGavronka Volodymyr Petrovich, in connection with the submission of the resignation application; Judge of the Moscow District Court of HarkowaHonchar Viktor Opanasovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Skadovian District Court of the Herson district of Vasilnik Vladimir Volodymyrovic – in connection with the application for resignation. Judge Kaszczuk Alla Mikolayovna, Judge of the Zvenigrad District Court of the Cherkas region, withdrew her application. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u234	Yes. Judge of the Sadgir District Court of Chernovici Galusinsky Anatolia Mikolaiovich – in connection with the submission of the resignation application; Judge Bobrovicki district court of the Chernigiv district of Jeremenko Svetlan Volodymyrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Kozeletsky District Court of Czernigiv County, Carpenko Hanna Mikitovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Srebnyan District Court of Chernigiv RegionMorishnik Evgen Vasilovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Chernigiv District Court of Chernigiv County, Salaya Mikhail Grigorovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Lenin District Court of Sevastopol Romanov Irina Petrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Military District Court of the Vinnické garrison Polishchuk Oleg Ludwidwicz – in connection with the application for a state of health pension which prevents the continuation of duties; Judge of the Odessa garrison military court of the Red Alexander Mikitovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Commerce of the Luhansk Region of Zubov Ljubov Volodymyrov – in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Commercial Court of the Lviv Region, Sal Ivan Andriyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Economic Court of Poltava district of Plehanovo Ludmila Borisovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Commerce of the Herson district of Skobelkin Sergey Vasilovich – in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u235	Dear National Deputies! We exclude from this list the judge of the Zvenigrad district court in the Cherka district of Kaszczuk Alla Mikolayovna, because she has sent a telegram and also a statement asking her to withdraw her resignation application. With this in mind, I am voting on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges. [[Registration number 7298-1]] Please vote. [[13:01:23]] For 310 Decision taken. Now the draft regulation is registration number 7298-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u236	Dismissed: Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of Vichrovo Vladimir Vasilovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region: Bugrim Ludmila Mikolayevna, Galatin Aleksandra Mikolayovich, Kozlova Alexandr Mihajlovich, Kravchenka Vladimir Grigorovich, Miznikov Viktor Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Luhansk Region Medvedev Andrija Mihajlovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Plains region of Paskević, Alexander Evstachovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Kharkiv, Kamishev Region, Sergey Petrovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Cherka district of Kekuh Volodymyr Fedorovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Odessa Court of Appeal: Tatenko Natal Borisovna, Tofana Volodymira Mikhailovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of Kharkiv Farm CourtKaraban Innu Semenovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Feodosian City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Alexander Aleksandra Alexiyyovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Chargord District Court of Winnicke DistrictDubczak Anatolia Grigorovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Supreme District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of the Danube of Love Vasilov in connection with the filing of the resignation application; Judge Dokuchaev City Court of the Donetsk Region of Sadovian Mikola Kostinović in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Constantine's District Court of the Donetsk Region Solaryev Tamara Alexyevna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Krasnolyman City Court of the Donetsk district of Hmelov Chmel's Anatoly Fedorovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the District Court of First Instance of the Donetsk RegionButenk Anatolia Petrovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Hartziski City Court of the Donetsk Region of Kodolova Vladimir Aleksandrovitch in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Central City District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region. This is a statement of appeal, this is Khorodin Alexander Ivanovich. Judge Ordjökidzewski District Court of Mariupol Donetsk RegionLagoda Vladimir Aleksijovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Central City District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk RegionStrateichuk Ludmila Zinovievna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Korstoszewski District Court of the District of Zitomir, Musiyczuk, Valentina Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Malin District Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u237	Malinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u238	Malinsky District Court of the Jítomir district of Jarmolenko Viktor Grigorovitch in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Populnian District Court. District Court of the Jítomir Region. We have a statement about what he's calling off. I'll take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u239	Yes, yes, there is a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u240	It is, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u241	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u242	Yes, the judge of the Melitopol Regional Court of Zaporozhye district of Maruschenko Mikhail Vasilovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Hortical District Court of Zaporozhye Commissioner Ludmila Vasilovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Kirov City Court of the Luhansk Region of Suconcevod Lidija Grigorovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Radehiv District Court of Lviv Region, Igor Fedorovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Galician District Court of Lvov, Seryodkin Ivanna Mikolayevna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension which prevents the continuation of duties; Judge of the Berezan District Court of the Mikolai district of Madaya Stepan Ivanovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Lubenski District Court of Poltava Region, Mr. Sergio Mihajlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Romanian District Court of Sumensk Milenk Mikola Petrovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Dergachev, District Court of Kharkiv, Manic Valentine Petrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Zoločov District Court of Kharkiv RegionJorevitch Valerija Vitaliyovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Hornostotiv District Court of the Herson region of Shipoval Tetjana Dmitrovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Novouszick Regional Court of the Hmelnicke District of Bondarczuk Stepanović in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Lenin District Court of SevastopolPuzin Valentine Ivanovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Military Local Court of the Dnipropetrovsk garrison of the Bohrsov Valerija Ivanovich in connection with the filing of the resignation application; Judge of the local military court of Sevastopol Garrison Melichov Volodymira Stepanović in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Economic Court of the Poltava Region of Georgieva Vjacheslav Dmitrovicz in connection with the filing of the resignation application; Judge of the Court of Commerce of the District of Suma Ponikar Mikola Ivanovich in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u243	Yes, Your Honor, we remove from the draft ruling the name of the judge of the Central Minsk District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Jorgendra Ivanovich, as well as the name of the judge of the Popelnian District Court of the Gordina Region of Gordina, Sergey Stepanovich, in connection with the fact that they have made statements in which they testify that they have withdrawn their previous resignation applications. In view of this, I am voting on a draft Supreme Council regulation on the release of judges. [[Registration number 7298-2]] Please vote. [[13:07:19]] For 314 Decision taken. Now, dear fellows. draft decision on the dismissal of the judge. [[Registration number 7298-3]] This is about the release of Senin Yuri Leonidovich from office as judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in connection with the application for resignation. At the same time, there is a statement from the Supreme Court judge asking him not to consider his application. That's why we're taking the draft decision off the table. Yeah? Draft Decree 7298-3 is withdrawn. Next draft of the ruling. [[Registration number 7298-4]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u244	Dismissed: Judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine: Dear Vladimir Petrovich, Selion Alexander Fedosovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Yakovljev Sergija Valentinović in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Court of Appeal of Kirovograd Region: Nikita Alexia Semenovich, Writer Georgi Alexiyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the District of Lantushenko Jurija Fedorovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Samczuk Peter Petrovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Kramator City Court of Donetsk Region, Sklarova Vladimir Viktorovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Kirov District Court of Donetsk Yuriev Tamara Ivanovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Pásnian District Court of the Lugansk Region of Grigorenko Lubov Mihaylovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Monastery District Court of Ternopil, Kostuk Mikhail Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the County District Court of Cherkas: Burlak Valentina Ivanovna, Denisuk Valerija Vasilovich, Mikhailenko Vladimir Gavrilovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Kulikovsky District Court of Czernigów, White Mikhail Mikhailovich, in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the release of judges. [[Registration number 7298-4]] Please vote. [[13:09:46]] For 311 Decision taken. Please, next draft of Decree 7298-5.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u246	Dismissed: Judges of the Dnipropetrov Court of Appeal: Kuliš Rais Fedorovna and Plevek Vladimir Ivanovich – in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u247	Dear National Deputies! I'm voting on a draft order for the release of judges. [[Registration number 7298-5]] [[13:10:28]] For 304 Decision taken. All about our release?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u248	By Demchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u249	Yeah, we'll be right there. Dear National Deputies! We were about to discuss with you the draft decree on the granting of detention and arrest, the taking of the order under the watch of Judge Ivankowski. No, I know, I'll tell you what. John’s District Court of the Odessa region of Donin But in view of the fact that there is a letter from the Committee on Transfers, the absence of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. So there's a proposal to postpone consideration of this issue, no objection? He needs to be the Head of the Supreme Court. And now, Your Honor, your opinion is proposed by the draft Order amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 8 July 2010 No. 2465-6 on the release of Demchenk from the post of Judge of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u250	On July 8, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to release Demchenko Sergija Fedorovic from office as judge of the Ukrainian Supreme Economic Court. The draft decree was introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Soboljev, Philenko, Schustik, Savechenko, Senchenko, Karmazin, Olijnik, Grač. According to this Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Demchenka Sergija Fedorovich was released from his post as judge of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine in connection with the achievement of the age of 65. At the same time, on January 20, 2008, Demchenko Sergey Fedorovich was filed with the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine for his resignation. After considering the above-mentioned issue on September 10, 2009, the Supreme Judicial Board decided to propose the release of Demchenk from the post of judge. After considering the proposed 30 November 2009, the Supreme Council of Justice approved the decision to apply to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the release of Demchenk in connection with the application for resignation. On December 4, such an application was submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice, after considering the release of Demchenk on May 12, 2010, recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine release him in connection with the application for resignation. This decision was followed by an appropriate draft decree for consideration by the Supreme Council. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not decide to release Demchenk from office as judge in connection with the application for resignation on 13 May 2010. However, on July 8, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Demchenk from office as judge of the Supreme Court of Agriculture of Ukraine Registration No. 2605 and decided to release Demchenk from the post of judges in connection with the age of 65. On September 22, 2010, the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, after considering Demchenko Sergija Fedorović's application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for recognition of the invalidity of the Supreme Council's decision of July 8, 2010 No. 2465-6 as part of the grounds for the dismissal of the judge, decided to satisfy the application in full. The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, by its decision, declared the Supreme Council of Ukraine illegal ruling of 8 July 2010 No. 2465-6 on the grounds of Demchenk's dismissal from the post of judge of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine in connection with his 65-year term. The court also obliged the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the application of the High Council of Justice on December 4 for the release of Demchenk from the post of judges of the Ukrainian Supreme Court of Commerce in connection with the application for resignation. The application of the High Council of Justice of December 4, 2009, concerning the release of Demchenk in connection with his resignation, is valid. So I ask him to support and change the grounds for Demchenk's release as suggested in Supreme Council ruling 7120. The court’s decision is effective. Please support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one thing left for us to conclude that the decision of the court is final is not subject to review in the appeal procedure. And put a draft ruling to the vote. Well, please take it off the vote. Yuri Carmazin, then Vladimir Moisik.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u252	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national MPs, a more paradoxical situation! For two and a half years, I mean Demchenka has been bullying all over the country, showing all the countries of the world that, according to the Ukrainian Constitution, where it is written that over 65 years can't be held in office can be trampled. For two and a half years, the entire legal system, the President, was silent, the Constitution "raped"! Right now, thousands of lawsuits are sitting in the Supreme Administrative Court, haven't been considered for years, and now it's instantaneous: "bah," they've considered everything, because corporate interest. I'm asking, why wasn't there so much corporate interest in protecting the Constitution? Why? We're one-sided. And, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it is not clear what is being done is once again a violation of the Constitution. Because one institution, the Supreme Administrative Court, is called the Fifth Chamber, which is called the "killer" and.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u253	Vladimir Moses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u254	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! I have a question, Vladimir Mikhailovich, of this kind. Of course, there is a basis in the Constitution for exemption from the age of 65 when a judge has no right to resign and, if he does, the decision of the Supreme Council must be rectified by Demchenk. But there is another question, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We just transferred the judge from the Supreme Court to the Supreme Court and did so on that Thursday. The Constitution does not contain the “transmission of a judge”, and the Act that has become effective, on the status of judges, preserves the benefits and social status of a judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. So how it's going to be implemented in practice, because we just pick them, not translate them. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u255	Thank you! Yes, dear colleagues, there are no other considerations. I'm voting on the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 8 July 2010 No2465-VI "On Demchenk's release from office as judge of the Supreme Court of Agriculture of Ukraine." Please vote. [[13:17:39]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of matters related to the appointment, the release of judges. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the Protection of Consumer Rights]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy's subcommittee, Gayman Oleg Eisikovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u256	Honorary Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, on 24 June 2009, the committee reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, introduced by the National MP of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko, and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. [[on the Protection of Consumer Rights]] [[Registry 3670]] [[of 28.01.2009]] But in the case provided for in the fourth part of article 102 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, accept it as a whole. On June 15, 2010, the bill was considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and adopted as a basis. In general, as a law, the bill was not adopted only because, between the decision-making period and the committee and its consideration in the session hall, namely, on 14 May 2010, the Ukrainian President signed the Act amending article 707 of the Civil Code, which already adopted the amendments, the amendment in paragraph 2 of the bill and the word “inappropriate” had already been replaced by the word “appropriate”. During the drafting of the bill, three proposals were made to the committee by two national deputies Karmazin and Miroshnick. Suggestions are taken into account. The subcommittee believes that it is recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be recommended to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts adopted in the second reading and in general as a law. [[on the Protection of Consumer Rights]] [[Registry 3670]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, no objection? None. The committee offers to accept in the second reading and in general what has been said. There is no central legal administration of the bill's observations. That is why I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the Protection of Consumer Rights]] [[Registration number 3670]] Please vote. [[13:21:05]] For 288 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we should have now considered the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations. [[on improving the mechanism of activity]] But in view of the violation of article 116 of the Rules in preparation for the second reading of the Rules, I ask the Committee to bring it into line with the requirements of the Act “On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration. The same applies to the draft Law on Amendments to the Amnesty Act of Ukraine. [[new editor]] In preparing for the second reading, the committee also went beyond Rule 116 of the Rules. I ask that these bills be brought into conformity with the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without delay and submitted for consideration. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to increase the responsibility for intervention in rail transport. [[Registration number 6552]] The reporter is Bevz Valeriy Ananiyovich. Please. Please, huh? This is Bill 6552.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u258	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The proposed Bill 6552 on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening the responsibility for intervention in transport, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 9 September 2010. The position of the second-reading project increases the fines of 3-10 times in articles 109, 110, 136, 222 of the Code of Administrative Offences. Which, by the way, were established back in the '90s. With the amendments to article 224 of the same code and article 12 of the Ukrainian Railway Law, it is extended to officials who have the right to deal with administrative offences and to impose administrative charges on behalf of railway authorities. Articles 227 and 279 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code also increase fines in terms of 3-5 times the size, from 50 to 250 untaxed minimum citizens' income. In order to prevent and prevent illegal activities that in one way or another affect the safety of rail traffic. During the drafting of this bill, 10 proposals from Ukrainian national deputies were made to the committee for consideration in the second reading, of which 6. Including one in part. There are no 4 proposals that do not involve meaningful effort or that do not meet the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, since they have not been considered in the text of the bill as a basis. Please support the committee's proposal and adopt draft Law 6552 in second reading and as a whole as a law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u259	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the amendments. Amendment 2, Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u260	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, my amendment is for the second part of article 109 to read: “The dumping of garbage and other items from the windows and doors of train cars, the passage of railway tracks in undetermined places in the editorial: “will entail the imposition of a fine of 50 to 100 untaxed minimum rates of citizens’ income and public works for 30 to 40 hours.” Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Ukrainians, when you enter from any country to Ukraine, you move across the border, you see the huge differences, you see that all the landings today, all the forests are polluted. If we don't now establish strict sanctions, if we're starting to do so now, this situation will change. So please support my offer, it's hard, but fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u261	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is that we're still increasing on a tenfold scale, and we can't thus require criminal legislation and administrative legislation to impose on each other. So as far as we could offer, they are laid down in the body of today’s law. That's why the amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u262	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 2 Yuri Karmazin. [[13:26:51]] For-49 The amendment is not accepted. 3 revisions. We cannot consider it because it goes beyond 116 articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The 5th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u263	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I say that article 116 of the Rules is a barrier to progress and destruction in the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's what I'm saying. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, think about it. You're an analytical person, you'll come to that conclusion and you'll see. And Karmazin was asking the question that putting objects on railway tracks that could cause train disruptions should carry enormous responsibility up to 30 to 40 hours of community service. And what we do is we do cosmetic changes that don't change this law. It's for Amendment 3, Vladimir Mikhailovich, after which you wouldn't let me speak. Amendment 5, paragraph 2 of the second sentence, reads: “It entails imposing a fine of 40 to 100 untaxed minimum citizens’ incomes and public works of 30 to 40 hours.” This is about increasing responsibility for those who do.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u264	Well, the same explanation, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as before. We've raised the maximum, we can't do that anymore, because we can't do that, because we can't do that, because we can't do that, because we can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u265	I'll bet the vote on the 5th amendment. [[13:28:38]] For-37 No correction supported. Yeah, let's keep going. Amendment of Carmazine 8. Partially counted. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you agree?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u266	I agree, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u267	Then 10 is your amendment. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u268	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! We need to examine our views. We have already reached the point where we care when people are at risk. If the fast trains are installed, will there be anything under them? Well, please think about the safety of your children, of other citizens. Amendment 10 refers to “The Final Provisions” so that the law takes effect from the day following its publication, because otherwise the law will allow a fine to be imposed on citizens whose size will be greater than that which was in force at the time of the offence on the day when the text of the law which was published has not yet been published. That's ridiculous! A policeman stops you and says, And today, right now, it can be published. It is clear that from the next day it will be necessary for it to be. And that's what we have to do by all the laws. Ladies and gentlemen, let's learn about legal culture! I don't understand why I shouldn't count it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u269	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! Dear colleagues! There is a fundamental principle of current legislation, which is that the law of retroactive force does not have, and that is why the legislator does not see it necessary in the Final Positions to write this rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u270	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 10 of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:30:35]] For-33 No correction supported. Yes, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u271	The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u272	Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the committee towards your reputation has been proven. A number of comments to the bill were made by the Chief Legal Authority. I'd like to take that into account. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to increase the responsibility for interference with rail transport. [[Registration number 6552]] Please vote. [[13:31:32]] For 248 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of the responsibility for individual offences in housing and utilities is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u273	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues! The bill is extremely relevant. It proposes to supplement the Criminal Code with article 270, marked 1: “Intentional destruction or damage to residential property”. And amend article 153 of the Code of Administrative Offences. Both standards propose to substantially increase the responsibility for such crimes and offences. The committee’s second reading bill was reviewed several times. The point is that there's a note by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration that we've given you a separate table. But at the same time, I want to point out that the committee worked with the Ministry of Housing and Utilities, with other interested ministries and offices. The experts of the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the BSS, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Academy of Internal Affairs and others gave a positive assessment. The bill received 14 amendments, of which 12 were fully, partially, or editorially, 2 were rejected. And we believe that these amendments significantly improve the bill compared to what was adopted in the first reading. Now, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm ready to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u274	1st Amendment. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u275	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Romanovich, thank you for improving the bill, of course. But I can't agree with your committee. And I would like to comment on the fact that I believe that it is possible to destroy plants not only by citizens but also by employees of enterprises, institutions, organizations, regardless of their forms of ownership, as well as by officials. And the costs of the relevant monitoring and law enforcement authorities to comment and to stop the illegal actions of these persons, and the extent of the damage they have suffered, can be much greater than the income of these individuals. As a result, I propose to write here the second part of the first "destruction, or damage to green plants" and to continue to write in the text: "they will be liable to impose a fine on citizens from 100 to 200 untaxed minimum of citizens, on employees – from 200 to 300 untaxed minimums of citizens, officials of enterprises, institutions and organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u276	Please complete your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u277	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. corporate officials, institutions of organizations, regardless of the form of ownership and citizen-subjects of entrepreneurship between 300 and 350 non-taxable minimums of citizens.” Dear national deputies, look, they're already destroying and destroying the greens.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u278	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, the committee has reached the conclusion that the fine for citizens, natural persons should be between 10 and 30 untaxed minimums, for officials, or for individuals who are entrepreneurs, 30 from 30 to 50 such minimums. The amendment proposes from 100 to 200, and for others from 200 to 300 minimum, it is a significant overshoot of the criminal limit. The committee therefore disagreed with that suggestion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u280	I bet on the vote number one, by Yuri Carmazin. [[13:36:06]] For 20 Correction not supported. The seventh amendment of Carmazin is included in part. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u281	No, I don't insist, but I'm sorry that people can't understand how to do what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u282	And now the tenth amendment, Yuri Anatolyovich yours, is rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u283	Yuri Carmazin. The tenth amendment refers to the same actions, this amendment to the Criminal Code to Article 194 with the badge 2. The question is: The same actions taken repeatedly, or in a generally dangerous way, in article 192 are punishable by a fine of 250 to 500 untaxed minimum citizens’ income, correctional work from one and a half years to two years, or by a restriction of free will from three to five years, or the deprivation of liberty for the same term. And here, dear friends, I propose to add a fine that is not in this article right now. It's just a free pass. Let them pay for the money, and they will also be deprived of their will. Let them do both, for this is a matter of compensation for the destruction of the plantations. That's why. We need to protect our right to breathe.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u284	I'll bet the vote on the tenth amendment. [[13:37:49]] For the 15th. The amendment is not accepted. Everything else is accounted for. Please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u285	Dear colleagues, the committee invites you to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u286	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out to you that, aside from the committee's decision, there is also an observation by the Chief Legal Authority that the bill believes requires thorough work and re-reading. I'd ask you not to. I would like to vote on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase liability for individual offences in the housing sector. [[Registration number 6505]] [[13:38:51]] For-19 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the voting motion that came from the Chief Legal Authority and was now proposed to the session room for re-reading the bill. [[13:39:22]] For 290 Decision taken. The replica. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u287	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, I request Ivan Grigorievich Kirilenko. [[I'm talking to Karmazin.]] Stop making fun of the country's chief lawyer. He's in some kind of underground, I don't know, skinny Kabmine, but vice-premier. Vice Prime Minister. It's a status. When people see that you do not support it, either you remove it from the vice-premiers so that he may not disgrace this sacred position of Ukraine, or do not be mocked, support it. You can't make fun of your job. God is with him. You don't respect a man. But you must respect the Vice Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u288	Dear people's deputies, please. First of all, there's no replica on the line. And secondly, the name wasn't called, there's nobody to talk to. Who are you talking about, please? You'll have a chance to answer, Yuri Anatolyovich. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Certain Offences. [[on the completion of public works sanctions]] [[Registration number 6634]] The rapporteur is Valerius Ananiyovich Beviz, Secretary of the Committee for Legislative Protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u289	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Liability for Individual Offences, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was adopted on the basis of a reduction in the preparation period of October 5 of the current year. The purpose of the bill is to introduce alternative sanctions in separate articles of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, to enhance the impact of society on the lawfulness of offenders. The bill seems extremely relevant, for it proposes to amend certain articles of the Code on Administrative Offences by supplementing them with administrative penalties such as public works. The chief legal office has prepared a bill without notice, and it believes that the bill can be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. In all, six amendments were made to the bill, five of which were taken into account in full, in part, or editorially, and one amendment was rejected. The Committee considers the proposed edition to be in line with the provisions of article 116 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The committee believes that the bill can be adopted in a second reading and in general, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u290	Dear National Deputies! Practically all the amendments except for the fifth amendment of Olga Bodnar are included. The main legal authority agrees with the committee’s conclusions. There's no other offer? I put to the vote the proposal of the adoption committee in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on increasing accountability for individual offences, supplementing sanctions with public works]] Registration number 6634. Please vote. [[13:43:20]] For 255 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing a draft Act amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities. [[concerning the submission and presentation of pension documents]] Lichuk Vladimir Ivanovich, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u291	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities was adopted on first reading on 4 November 2010. The bill came up with three proposals from legal entities. The first proposal is taken into account, it specifies the wording that was adopted in the first reading, supplemented by the provision that the Pension Fund determines the list of documents to be submitted to a scientific worker for the purpose of granting a scientific pension and specifies the central authority of the executive branch with which the Pension Fund aligns such a list. The second and third proposals relate to the use of the Internet system in pensioning. These proposals cannot be taken into account. First of all, this is not the subject of a regulation of this law. And secondly, it needs to be addressed at the legislative level with regard to electronic governance and the issue of the preservation of confidential information. That is, it is proposed to support the first amendment and reject the second and third amendments that are not subject to regulation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u292	Now we'll listen to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Your amendment 2 and 3, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u293	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. First of all, I sincerely thank Mr Chechchev for his concern for me. He'd rather worry about green plantings, that the government bill is now overturned, and at that time they'll continue to destroy the forest, the park, the zone. What's more, you've now secured Kernes' illegal victory in Kharkiv, although everyone knows, starting with the kindergarten, that in Kharkiv he won the Avatar and he's supposed to be the mayor of the city. But in the Party of the Regions, they see their own vision. So thanks for my support, Mr. Chechetov, you'd better stand by here, because this is about the application, about the assignment of the pension. And I'm saying that instead of writing through a representative who's acting, write it down, put it in a text like this. By way of direction, recommended by a letter describing or wishing to send through information on the review of his statement, through the Internet and the official website.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u294	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 2, Yuri Carmazin. [[13:46:24]] For-25 The amendment is not accepted. And the third amendment, Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u295	Yuri Carmazin. Dearly beloved, how will you go to Europe if all the civilized methods that Europeans use, including the use of the Internet, you reject. No, you're saying bring it, worship the clerk yourself, you can't send a letter of recommendation, you can't even ask for a walk on the Internet. What are you letting Ukrainians, dear friends? I'm talking to those who didn't support me. Now for the third amendment. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is proposing in a two-month period to adopt a position to provide pensioners with the necessary information through the Internet network and the official website of the Regional Pension Fund of Ukraine, see how much less the disease, the broken legs they go while they get some information, the queues that are just going to come in, look at and decide. All you have to do is serve.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u296	Yes, Your Honor, I'm voting for Amendment No. 3 of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:47:59]] For-46 No correction supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u297	Yes, dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. The chief legal authority called for a draft law without any notice. I therefore put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities. [[concerning the submission and presentation of pension documents]] [[Registration number 6675]] Please vote. [[13:48:56]] For 318 The law is passed. Please, please. Mikhailo Chechetov
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u298	Yuri Anatolyevich, well, here I am when I think why you call my name. But when I looked at the vote for the elections to take place in 2012 and plus, when you see 0 beatniks voting for you, I fully understand that you're implying to us that you've matured to write a statement to the Party of the Regions. Take the sheet of paper, if you don't, come on, I'll give you a pen. The only thing with a trial period is, of course, we'll consider it later. I understand that you are mature, especially when you voted in favour of the 2012 elections. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u299	Yuri Carmazin, please. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u300	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to answer Mr Chechtov. Dear Mr. Chechetov, I answer to you, your Party of Regions, everyone. Please read today’s decision by the Constitutional Court, which said that you were unreasonable in adopting the Budget Act, limited citizens. Think about what to do next, I'll give you a hint if you want. As for my introduction to the Party of the Regions, unfortunately, I want to tell you that as a member of the Party of Fatherland Defenders, there's nothing I can do. And with regard to the elections in 2012, read the Constitution that you wanted to abolish as well as democracy in Ukraine in general. And after the Constitution, September 30, you and I were elected in 2005 for five years. If you count correctly, 2007 plus 5 is 2012. I know you're doing the right thing when you have to, so I'm asking you to take these events into account and think that Carmazin can always count correctly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u301	Dear colleagues, did you exchange lines? We're working on it. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Children's Nutrition Act is being announced for consideration. [[on increasing requirements for the production and circulation of children's food]] [[Registration number 4584]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Health Care of the Bahtejev. Lilia Grigorovitch will report. Lilia Stepanovna, please. Dear colleagues, I have an offer to complete this consideration and then we will announce a recess. Is there no objection? So we continue the morning session before the conclusion of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u302	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your consideration is presented by the table of amendments to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Children's Nutrition Act, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Aunt Dmitry Bachatejna, and prepared to take into account the comments and suggestions of the legal entities. The committee handled all the amendments and proposals made taking into account the requirements of national legislation, in particular the Ukrainian Food Quality and Safety Act, which are fundamental in this area, as well as international legal instruments. 46 amendments were made to the table by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Karmazina, Karpuka, Bahejevo, Tkača, Shamanova, 30 amendments included, 5 amendments were edited, 2 were taken into account and 9 were rejected. All the amendments that have been made are designed to improve the drafting of the bill adopted in the first reading. The committee established a final draft of the bill with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. We realize that, according to the provisions of the WTO, this law cannot take effect until six months from the date of its publication. However, the committee's proposal for a national deputy from the Ukraine of Shevchuk Sergio Volodymyrovich, who proposed that the deadline be reduced to three months, was supported. Please support the drafting proposed by the committee and adopt the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Children's Nutrition Act in second reading and in general as a law. And now, with your permission, as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u303	Yes, the amendment, Roman Tuck, 3 revisions. And Vladimir Karpuk, please. Carpuch, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u304	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, our more substantial, important amendments are included in the body of the bill. We do not insist on this correction or on what is to come. This is our agreed position with Roman Volodymyrovich Tkach.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u305	Thank you for the agreed position. Yuri Anatoliyovich, Amendment 7, it's edited, do you have any objections? No, it's not. Let's move on. Okay, okay, we're going to 42nd, 43rd. 43rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u306	Amendment 5. 42nd, 43rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u307	Yes, the 42nd Amendment of Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u308	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Lilia Stepanovna and the committee for their well-founded approach to this law and government, too, for taking a thorough approach to this law. At the same time, on two amendments I have to focus your attention, dear friends, because they relate to absolutely every one of these sitting here and our children. It is only suggested that the label with full name should indicate the age of the child who is allowed to eat. Instead of this rule, I propose to write: the name of the child food product is placed on the label on the front of the consumer packaging, using a font that should be at least 9.5 kg size, and on the consumer plate, less than 100 millimeters weight, using a font that is not less than 8.5 mm size. If all the necessary information is not available on the label, part of the information except the name of the manufacturer and the name of the product, the value of the net mass or volume and everything else, suitability or storage, conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u309	Complete, Yuri Anatolyovich, your formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u310	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Maybe, and if it's not there, it can be placed on a deposit sheet. In doing so, the label of such a product, which must have a font of at least 10.5 balls, should contain the label, which is additional information.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u311	Thank you. Please, Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u312	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, is proposed to establish this amendment at the level of the law. The Committee considers that such requirements should be defined at the level of a sub-legislative instrument as a State standard or technical regulation. At the same time, I agree, subjectively as a national MP, that everything should be as good as possible for children, perfectly and appropriately. So, I think we can make this right for the decision of the hall. The committee decided that it did not support this amendment and determined that we would decide on the level of the sub-legal act. And the hall can determine what it thinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u313	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 42 Yuri Karmazin. [[13:56:58]] For-45 No correction supported. Next. Amendment 43 Yuri Karmazin Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u314	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Today you have done two great harm. You passed a law that said you'd complete technical regulations by the end of the year. And it takes nine months to make one. And you're not a penny, your government, you didn't give it to me. And now you're doing another damage. You're saying define by law. But until it's determined, you'll have everything for our children. And we don't make demands. Let's say you make it a legal act. They won't. Now, about this amendment. The final date of consumption of a child’s food should include a day, a month, and a year in an illegal digital sense. And delete the words, "for products that are more than three months old, just specify a month and a year." I think those words are harmful. And that's where you write it. This corresponds to the world and European best experience. If we're going to Europe, of course. Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u315	Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u316	Dear colleagues! I personally support Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin's amendment. The decision-making committee rejected this amendment, on the basis that it is harmonised with the requirements of Article 9 of EU Directive 2013 No. 20 March 2000 on the approximation of the legislation of EU members on labelling, shaping and advertising of food products. In principle, once again, by supporting myself, I propose that the hall be identified.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u317	I'm betting on a vote of 43rd Yuri Carmazin. [[13:59:13]] For-66 The amendment is not accepted. Let's go to the repairs. It's all accounted for. Please, Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u318	If the national deputies of Ukraine who have been rejected, such as Mr. Shamanov, Tkach, Carmazin, Karpuk, do not have any proposals for voting on their amendments to the hall, then we can vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-02-m0.u319	I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Children's Nutrition Act. [[on increasing requirements for the producer and circulation of children's food]] Please vote. [[14:00:18]] For 331 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we have a little law here where the amendments are all taken into account. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah? I was just checking to see how much activity we have in the evening session. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 16 o'clock, we'll resume our session.
