ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:02]] They registered in the 412 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Honourable National Deputies, President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine is taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 25, of the Constitution of Ukraine, are under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: to grant approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine to the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. Yesterday, according to article 106, part one, paragraph 11, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the appointment of Pshonka Viktor Pavlovich as Attorney General of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u2	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, according to the Procuratorial Act, the term of office of Attorney General Pshonk is now over. So I'm making an appointment for the Attorney General of Ukraine, Pshonk Viktor Pavlovich. Please consider this question and agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u3	Yes. Thank you, Victor Fedorovich. Dear colleagues, according to article 212 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the next procedure for dealing with the matter is proposed. The First Deputy Head of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Committee is offered up to 5 minutes to present a candidate for the post of Attorney-General in 15 minutes, to answer questions in 15 minutes and 25 minutes to discuss the candidature, i.e. to speak from factions and deputies. No objections? This is in line with the Rules, and there is an hour to consider the matter. Let's move on to the question. I'm asking the Committee of Olives Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u4	Mr. President of Ukraine! The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement examined the draft decision of President Viktor Fedorović Janukovič of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to grant approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine of Pshonka Viktor Pavlovich as Attorney General of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7325]] There was a committee meeting yesterday, and the candidate for office was present in person. The committee heard him, carefully studied the materials and information that characterizes the candidate's position as Attorney General, including his professional and moral qualities. In particular, the committee examined the following materials: the autobiography of Viktor Pavlovich Pšonka; the evidence that the personnel and accounting documents of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine do not indicate the presence of Pshónka in a supervisory body or a supervisory board of an enterprise or an organization with a view to obtaining income; the evidence that there is no information in the personnel and accounting documents of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on Pshónka's judiciality; the income declaration; the financial and property obligations of the candidate for the post of Attorney-General of Ukraine; the diploma of the Kharkiv Law Institute for Higher Law Education issued to Pshonka; the diploma of the candidate for legal sciences issued to Pšonci. Generally speaking, Pszenka Viktor Pavlovich is an experienced lawyer and an instrument guide in the most positive sense of the word. For many years he gave the service to the State in the ranks of the prosecutor’s office, beginning with the so - called field office and ending with the positions of the prosecutor of a very large area, a deputy and the first deputy attorney general of Ukraine. Viktor Pavlovich is a well - known expert, and he is well aware of all the subtleties of the prosecutor’s work and the administration of a large and unforgivable community of prosecutors. Especially should the achievements of Victor Pavlovitch be noted in the field of protecting the economic interests of the State, which is an extremely pressing problem today. After considering Bill No. 7325, the Committee notes the importance of the continued compliance of the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office with the Constitution and Ukrainian laws and the proper exercise of their functions to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. The committee believes that Victor Pavlovich Pshonka is the same person today who is capable of reaching a high level in this important area of state building and of organizing the work of the procurator’s offices in the pursuit of legality and respect for the rule of law. In view of this, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following its consideration of the plenary session, that it decide to appoint Pshonka Viktor Pavlovich, President of Ukraine, as Prosecutor General of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u5	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, welcome to the rostrum of Pshonka Viktor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u6	Mr. President, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the honourable national deputies! Let me first express my appreciation for the introduction and consideration of my appointment to the Parliament as Attorney General of Ukraine. I would like to point out that I regard this decision as a positive assessment by the leadership of the state of work of the entire 11th-thousand community of prosecutors. In general, we have done a lot of positive things about establishing the rule of law in the state, combating crime and corruption, protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens and the interests of the State. I see my mission to ensure the future of this activity. The strengthening of work in the priority areas, the main task given by the President of Ukraine to the Prosecutor's Office at the meeting on 12 March this year, namely, the Head of State stressed that five years later Ukraine should be described as a modern European state governed by the law, suppressed by corruption, protected the rights of citizens, created the right conditions for economic development. For it to be done, law enforcement has to focus on professional problems that are very large. Let's narrow it down to the main ones. An analysis of the criminogenic situation shows that in the last five years the state’s crime rate has generally tended to decline. During that period, 36,000 more serious and particularly serious crimes were committed. By 10,000 people, 1.5-2 times fewer crimes are committed than in Belarus and Russia. At the same time, the data does not give any reason to be complacent. In particular, a large number of crimes against property — 61 percent — are concerned. In the area of illicit drug trafficking, 12 percent. Recurring crime as well as juvenile delinquency. In recent years the crime rate has been declining. Now a little more than half of their numbers are being investigated by bringing the case to trial. This requires increased coordination and oversight of prosecutors. Taking measures gradually improves the effectiveness of pretrial investigations. In general, 95 percent of the cases are closed and only two percent are closed for different reasons. On one and a half occasions, the number of cases brought back by the court for further investigation was reduced by three times, unlawfully brought to the criminal responsibility of citizens. Under such circumstances, the prosecution’s investigation led to the right to continue to exist. Confirmation of this is tens of thousands of cases of corruption crimes of bribes, abuse of power, violation of citizens' personal rights. The result was achieved through the joint efforts of the prosecutor's office and the departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service. At the same time, he is convinced that it is necessary to review certain provisions of the pretrial investigation. In particular, it is appropriate to extend to the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and to the Board the alternative to most crimes in the field of economic activity. At the same time, in order to ensure objectivity and impartiality, the Public Prosecutor's Office must preserve the right to investigate any criminal case. Such an order will increase the overall effectiveness of the work of all law enforcement agencies. It is urgent. the adoption of a new Criminal Procedure Code to ensure that the transformations are consistent with the national legal system, as well as with the financial capabilities of the State. It is not only our commitment to the Council of Europe but also our urgent, social need to strengthen the legal system and to fill it with modern content. The Office of the Attorney General has given special attention to the fight against corruption. In total, over 9,000 corruption cases, more than 8,000 bribery cases, have been brought before us in five years. However, the measures taken are not enough. As the President of Ukraine pointed out, this evil must be eradicated by “cage iron. ” A major improvement is needed by all law enforcement agencies, especially the special divisions of the IMF and the BSS. Yet only repressive measures to spread corruption and bribery cannot be stopped. An important document is the National Anti-Corruption Strategy 2010-2014, which will be considered by the National Anti-Corruption Committee chaired by the Head of State. Part of the strategy is a package of new anti-corruption laws that we expect to implement from the beginning of next year. One of the most pressing problems remains corruption in the judicial branch of power. Undeniably, the judges are aware of unfair decisions. In this context, I would like to highlight the exceptionally positive significance of judicial reform. The new Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges has considerably improved the system of control over the prevention of abuses by judges, violations of the rights of the parties to the trial. Honourable members of the session, equally important in the area of the rule of law, the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens, have been made by the Public Prosecutor's Office in the exercise of supervisory and representative functions in the non-criminal sphere. For almost 15 years, there has been no so - called general oversight in the prosecutor’s office. However, the role of supervision of compliance with and application of the laws provided for in the “Transitional Positions” of the Constitution remains extremely relevant. Such information is convincing. Over the past five years, 18 billion dollars have been compensated for acts of public and state prosecutorial response, of which 5 billion are budgeted. The courts have been satisfied with nearly 500,000 lawsuits filed by prosecutors that have actually attracted nearly 9 billion dollars. Constant attention is given to protecting the interests of the State. In particular, in the fuel-energy complex, in the use of budgetary resources, in public procurement, in compensation for the added value of land relations. Only this matter was warned by prosecutors about the unlawful removal of 20,000 acres [20,000 ha] of land. The situation of wage payments, unemployment, the protection of the rights of minors is gradually improving, and prosecutorial checks have contributed greatly. This year, nearly 1.5 billion dollars of income debt have been paid for our intervention. A $300 million budget has been paid for the Pension Fund. These questions remain a priority. Therefore, in support of the need to reform the current status of the Public Prosecutor's Office, I consider it necessary to preserve its extremely powerful legal capacity. I repeat, the right-wing potential. In this regard, I would like to highlight the importance of updating the legislative framework for the activities of prosecutors. Today’s Law on Public Prosecutions is nearly 20 years old. In many respects, therefore, it does not meet modern - day challenges. Its constitutional status needs to be improved, as international experts have repeatedly stressed, particularly the Venice Commission. I hope that the legislative body, for the active participation of our experts, will do whatever it takes to celebrate the 20th anniversary together with the new Procurator's Act. Reverend Victor Fedorovich, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Within the Rules, I have stopped only on the most important tasks that the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council have put before the Prosecutor's Office and require our close attention. I assure you that if I decide on my appointment as Attorney General of Ukraine, I will take all possible measures to ensure the rule of law, the rule of law and equality of all before the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. Please sign up for Victor Pavlovich. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Behaviz.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u9	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u10	Thank you. Mr. Victor Pavlovich, there is no doubt that, with the support of the President and the Supreme Council, you will bring, as it were, a new, more powerful moment in the activities of the Attorney General's Office and subordinate prosecutors on the ground. But what we also have to say is that it's probably a test for the new Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor of the Lugansk region that will be a proper legal assessment of the events in the city of Lugansk in the election of the city's head. And there is such a request, if possible, for a brief assessment of both your findings and the position of the Attorney General on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, in the recent period, many appeals from the national deputies to the Attorney General’s Office in the local elections that took place on October 31st. So let me give you a brief overview of the activities of the District Attorney’s Office during the election period. A few words, a few minutes. Monitoring compliance with electoral legislation is the responsibility of central, territorial, and local electoral committees. The prosecutor’s office does not oversee the enforcement of electoral legislation, including by appropriate electoral committees. Their competence includes responding to criminal offences against citizens' electoral rights. Within the defined limits, every possible measure has been taken to prevent violations of the electoral rights of citizens. In September of this year, subordinated prosecutors are tasked with maintaining compliance with the requirements of the laws during the electoral campaign, responding in a timely and effective manner to violations. A working group of the most experienced workers was established in the Central Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. The results of the tests by the district attorney’s office were informed by the Attorney General’s Office every week. Between October 28 and November 1, such information took place daily. The day before and on the day of the vote is the day-to-day rotation of the procurator’s operatives. During the local elections, over 1,000 138 appeals were made to the district prosecutors. Most of the 62 percent were sent to the IMF, the electoral commissions, the executive authorities, and the local self - government authorities, and 205 were provided with clarifications. Generally speaking, the appeal involved the holding of electoral agitation, the legality of promotion, the registration of candidates for local councils to bribe voters. For the most part, the public prosecutor’s offices were approached by candidates for deputies and for the position of rural, rural, urban, local political party organizations, voters, election committees, and Ukrainian national deputies. On the day of the vote, only 125 complaints came to the prosecutor’s office. As a result of the tests in the Zakarpatsk, Lugansk, Lviv, Odessa, Kharkiv, Cherkas and Chernivsky areas, nine criminal cases have been investigated for bribery of voters and members of electoral committees, forging electoral documents, exceeding official powers and forgeries, and kidnapping of electoral ballots. One criminal case has already been brought before the court, in the Lviv region. In the Kyiv and Zakarpatsky areas, prosecutors have issued prescriptions to individual heads of local self-governance authorities requiring proper material and technical conditions of work in election committees. It was only after the prosecutor’s admission that the illegal approval of the court had been revoked that had blocked the work of the 47 territorial electoral commissions of the Khatin district of Cherniewets. The information available in the Public Prosecutor’s Office indicates that there are no gross violations of the constitutional right of citizens to choose and to be elected during the local elections. Thank you. In Luhansk, where I was specifically assigned. asked a specific question, a criminal case was committed yesterday, and the prosecution's investigators started investigating it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, non-factional. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u13	Oleg Lazko. Dear Victor Pavlovich, you've just talked so well about how the authorities of the prosecutor's office are fighting corruption. I'd like to make a point of correcting this information on the example of the region of Chernigiv. On several occasions I appealed to the Attorney General’s Office for the promotion and with the well - known head of the district administration, Vladimir Homenka, who was extended to the basics of 240 hectares [240 ha] of land in the Kozelec region. From one businessman, millions and millions of dollars were taken, as if they had promised the land, no money, no land. He asked me to do a background check, file a criminal case, bring the head of the district administration to justice, and receive a copy. That is, mass, when the Chernewsky has stretched hundreds of hectares of land in Kiev, today you are dragging Chernivetsk for this, apparently a political situation has changed, and Homenko is still sitting, continuing to sit with the head of the EDA and to embalm the land. Of course, there is no doubt that I would like to receive an answer from you today. And to the end. There is no doubt that you will be appointed today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u14	Thank you. I promise you personally to pay attention to your references and give you the answer to your signature.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u15	Thank you. We're going to form it as a parliamentary inquiry. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u16	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. I'd like to ask about the custody of Klementiev, and please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u17	Jaroslav Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u18	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” Victor Pavlovich, 12 years from the time of the murder, is now in the memory of Viacheslav Czarnovol. At what stage, as it were, is the investigation of this resonant murder, crime, and what do you think is the prospect of revealing it? And another, about two years ago, my colleague John Stojk and I informed the Attorney General’s Office about the very disturbing additional information related to the murder of Viacheslav Crnovola. Whether the Office of the Attorney General investigated these additional facts and the conclusions it had reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u19	Thank you. On the first question, in the city of Kharkiv, journalist Klementiev. A criminal case is being investigated, and in Kharkiv, there's a powerful intelligence and operational group working in the city of Kharkiv from the heads of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Central Office and the central apparatus of the Attorney General's Office. I personally heard with the Deputy Minister at the operational meeting the course of the investigation of this case, personally the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs informed the President of Ukraine about the course of the investigation, because this matter is under personal control of the President and believe me, it is being investigated professionally and I think it will be a success in detecting this crime. But believe me, there's a lot of versions, they work out, and it takes time. On the second question, according to Viacheslav Cnervol. A criminal case is being investigated. All those calls coming to the Attorney General's Office, the task force is working. Today, there's a permit, a permit, for his father's exhumation, for his son, Cranovil, Taras Cnerwell. Written permission, as required by law. That's why this question, the plans for exhumation and complementing forensic expertise and other expertise will be conducted and will be the basis for the investigation of this criminal case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u20	Ivan Kirilenko, BUT faction. Sergey Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u21	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Cosemiakin Andrija.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u22	Andrew Kozemyakin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u23	Dear Victor Pavlovich! I would like to address you as a believer and ask. Please tell me, in Christian terms, to file criminal cases against persons who don't even have a crime scene? I am now in charge of the matter, which is also under the control of President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. And it's also very good that he's here, and I'm addressing him. Tell me, how many people will sit behind bars who aren't guilty of committing a crime? I mean Mr. Makarenko, Mr. Didenko, Mr. Whisperer and Mrs. Kushner. That's the first one. And the second. As regards this case, were the prosecutors or the security services questioned by Gazprom in this case? Because last time you talked about it, you were in the hall. That's two. And the third. You've been here many years.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u24	Finish the question, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u25	Victor Pavlovich, you've been in charge of the task force for many years. Please tell me how do you feel about the Ukrainian Security Service today taking operational and technical action on the lawyers who are defending the individuals I called above? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u26	Thank you. On the first question, after investigating the crime in the section provided for in the 191st Criminal Code of Ukraine, where the charges were brought against the citizens of Didenko, Makarenko, Shepetko, who were arrested, and other criminal cases were completed. And it's already been completed about a month, and the defense attorneys are familiar with the materials of the criminal case. Didenko's got seven lawyers, sorry, six, Macarenk's got seven lawyers, Whisperer's got four lawyers. They're different by profession, different by nature. The investigation allowed us to rephoto all the materials of the criminal case. So when the case is brought before the court, it's already a matter for lawyers under the law who sign their signatures, that they're familiar with the material of the case, and a criminal case can go to court. The prosecution and the prosecutor’s office believe that in the actions of the citizens we are talking about, there is a component of the crime, the last word will be spoken by the court. And the defense will be given by those defenders who are now familiar with the materials of the criminal case. All the requests, all the motions made and made by the lawyers, by the defense attorneys, the investigation was satisfactory. I'm telling you this, so to speak, I'm also going to inform you about this. So they get to know each other and end up getting to know the material of the case, and the case goes to trial. The second question of overseeing operational-search, operational-search activities. You know, according to the law on operational and technical measures, all final permission is granted only by the court, on all the materials that are presented to the court. If the court finds that there are all sufficient, objective motives for these constitutional rights of citizens to be limited, it gives this permission. So the court has calculated that there are these motives for what you're saying. I don't know what you're talking about. So after this meeting, let's talk about some specific operational search activity. I promise you, personally, to get inside her heart and problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u27	National Deputy Kozub, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u28	Dear Victor Pavlovich! Indeed, during the time provided by the Supreme Council Rules, you have been able to identify not all issues, not all problems that concern you in your work. There is a significant issue that concerns society. Will your work ensure transparency in the work of law enforcement agencies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u29	Yes, and just like that. Communication with the media, all that is not mysterious under the current Ukrainian legislation, will be transparent and more active than it is today. That's what I promise you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u30	Yes, and Sergey Tereshuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u31	Dear Victor Pavlovich! There is now a lot of talk in society about the need to reform law enforcement agencies and the whole law enforcement system. The state of affairs that we have today cannot satisfy either the citizens of the military or the President, perhaps the states or the leaders of the state. I'd like to hear what your vision is, what your point of view is, how you can do it, and what time it is that you can substantially reform the entire law enforcement system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u32	Let me tell you in person that five years before the reform and amendment of the law have only been talked about and done nothing, and now we're talking less, and more is being done. And I've already said in my brief speech about that national strategy for reforming law enforcement and legislation, and the first session led by the head of state, and those presidential decrees issued to be reformed qualitatively, correctly, taking into account our Ukrainian legal traditions. It's all about. There are specific terms in these decrees for their execution. This is about everyone being opposed to us having more effective, effective laws to protect the economy of the state and the constitutional rights of citizens. And the prosecutor's office is actively involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u33	Thank you, Victor Pavlovich. Time's up. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, I ask you now to record, we have 25 minutes, according to the Rules, from factions to factions. It's just that the people's deputies are being offered directly. Please record from factions first. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like you to sign in. And put your name on the information board. Vladimir MacKayenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir will be next. Valentin Matviev. Ivan Verni Dubov, right? Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next from the Communist faction will be Valérie Bezz.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u34	Reverend Victor Fedorovich! Dear friends! First of all, allow me to thank Bear Alexander Ivanovich for his fruitful work as Attorney General of Ukraine. This is the first Attorney General in the history of the new Ukraine to have fully worked on its constitutional term. The state position of Alexander Ivanovich is marked by a high prize from the Fatherland. Ordering the President of Ukraine to appoint the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Viktor Ivanovich. Pavlovitch was not a surprise to any of us, for long before this event, the media rated the candidates for this high office among truly worthy representatives as the first to be called Viktor Pavlovich. In Ukraine, he is a well - known man. The prosecutor's office has been working for a long time, has gone through all the growth, all the positions, from the intern to the attorney general's first deputy. He proved to be a capable, competent expert, a balanced statesman. Viktor Pavlovich has great authority among the law enforcement officials of the Republic, among the judicial corps, and I would like to stress in particular that it will be very important for us in the course of judicial reform. And, at the same time, he is an available person, he treats every complainant with respect, he knows how to feel human pain, he restores justice to all possible legal means. I personally have known Victor Pavlovich for more than 20 years. In 1988, I represented Victor Pavlovich as the district attorney. Since then, I have been actively interested in his work. And let me put it straight: I'm impressed with the style and working methods of Victor Pavlovich Przyńka. I am confident that, in his capacity as Attorney General of Ukraine, Pshonka Viktor Pavlovich will be able to defend the constitutional rights and legitimate interests of our fellow citizens and will effectively influence the rule of law in our country. I ask you, Your Honor, to support the submission of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u35	Thank you, too. Valerius Beales, Communist faction. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u36	Dear Viktor Fedorovich, distinguished Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! As a response to a candidate for the post of Attorney General regarding the reform of the law enforcement system in general in our country. This is primarily about the return of powers to the Attorney General, who is subordinated to him to such a concept as “general supervision”. I'd like to say that this is not a new proposal at all. And for good reason, in our country's legal community today, there are quite a lot of suggestions that we have returned the mandate of the Attorney General, the Attorney General and the subordinated prosecutors of the Soviet era. I'm sorry, but that sounds a lot today. I think we're going to have to go back to solving this problem. But there is one problem: it is the problem of keeping order in your own home, the honourable Victor Pavlovich. I think it's your firmness, because it's just the colleagues who work with you that say that the prosecutor of Pshonka is a man who is tougher, more even tougher, more demanding. I think these qualities, Victor Pavlovich, will just give you the opportunity to put order in your own home, I mean, in the Attorney General's Office and in the territory. And so, indeed, to win that authority and that place in the system of state authorities and the government that this serious body of our state is to occupy. And last of all, my esteemed colleagues, I have been working with the Committee on Law Enforcement, quite often, as it were, in association with Victor Pavlovich, just from the issues of ensuring the legitimate rights and interests of our citizens. And I want to tell you with all the responsibility, every call I make as a national deputy and as a person acting as secretary of the committee of profile, to all my questions I have received fairly complete, comprehensive answers, more on some matters precisely the hardness of the Psoriak Viktor Pavlovich allowed specific criminal matters to come to a logical conclusion. Therefore, I think it will be absolutely logical to support the candidate submitted by the President of our country for the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u37	Thank you, too. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I'll be next in line for Valérie Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u38	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The distinguished national MPs certainly have a big question today, a big question for everyone, as he votes today. Our faction has decided to vote, each to stand for himself. I would like to raise the questions that we have before the Attorney General's Office, which will certainly have to be decided. First of all, it's not just reform. I agree a little bit with the previous speaker, who spoke about the early destruction of general oversight. It's too early because privatization has been done inadequately, not for the benefit of the people, too early because of what we've just seen, when these elections were held that could have been printed and extra ballot papers, and it's also a subject of general oversight. I think there's going to be an order in this question. As a person who has dedicated three years of her life to working on the new Criminal Code, I think that the intentions that Victor Pavlovitch has on working on the new Criminal Procedure Code are absolutely acceptable, as should work on the Code of Administrative Offences, which is also totally out of place. I would like to address Victor Pavlovich from this high rostrum with requests to respond as soon as possible to the community and to the killing of Crnowil, and to the murder of Gongadze, and therefore to the involvement of the highest prosecutors in the stretching of land in the Desert of Vodice, Victor Pavlovich. I've already addressed the President because no one can. It's your employees, the Attorney General's office. They cut the forest further, and they say it's okay. We need to go over there and see if we can make sure everything's not okay. What? How many can be created and vachanals? Three petitions were written to the Attorney General of Medvedsk in connection with the persecution of Hero of Ukraine on the campaign “NIBULON” of Vadaturski. Three addresses! In an equal city, the order of the Russian structure. Victor Pavlovich, I say to the President of Ukraine right now. And anyway, it's the same thing. The orders are made by some of your subordinates. That's why we have to get this over with. The facts that have now surfaced in the Energodary of Zaporozhye because some have forged electoral documentation. They're out on Odessa right now. And I was talking about how it could be, let's say there were 500 ballots just rolled around or just handed over. How could that be? These questions need to be answered. As well as because it might be up to Hark. We expect a lot of order in the state from you. And, Victor Pavlovich, I will personally vote for your candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u39	Thank you, you too. Valerius Alexiyovich Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u40	. And colleagues! The appointment of Victor Pavlovich is probably the case when the post is held by a well-known respectable and authoritative and deep-seated person. I'm sure we're all going to vote for him today. Unfortunately, however, we have a huge number of unresolved problems that have plagued our country for 20 years. The first thing I'd like to say is that we're in the middle of a slumbering corruption, which, unfortunately, we're among the best. And here, I am sure that we will not be without administrative reform, without the centralization of financial authority and the development of local self-government, which is exactly the basis of corruption. And Viktor Pavlovich will fight forever if we do not carry out this reform. I would also like to draw Victor Pavlovich's attention to the preservation of our budget, which is constantly being tried at all levels — from central to local budgets — to divide into their firms, to their tenders and to receive returns in the implementation of any programmes and the use of budgetary money. Next question. I think the Public Prosecutor's Office needs to be very concerned in principle with the payment of salaries. People have been humiliated for years. Through the courts, through any authority, they try to obtain what they have earned by law. And another important question is the earth. I don't think it's a secret, and we all know that the last advice before the elections was that many were mainly involved in sharing the land, but only for themselves. I would like to give a simple example of my native Berdjansk, where public servants have prepared consciously non-legal draft decisions, the session has been a friendly vote, and they have distributed 900 beaches in a resort zone prohibited, by the way, to their loved ones. My interlocutors, the press have given nothing, no one has been punished, and to this day, I am unfortunately sure that the elections have now come to an end, but no decision has been taken that will give anyone a sense of innocence. And the last. With the appointment, there are always new hopes, but only as a result will each of us be judged. In the matter of MPs, I have encountered Victor Ivanovich and I want to say that he is a very modest and responsible person. I think our faction trusts the President's initiative and supports Viktor Pavlovich's candidacy for this high office.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u41	Andrew School, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u42	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! Of course, in this situation, our faction will not assume responsibility for man’s support for the office of Attorney General, for this is a matter of authority. The government has to be responsible for the people it appoints, and that's perfectly normal, and I think it's the right thing to do. Because when the opposition assumes responsibility for the actions of the authorities, it will look at least as strange. So I would like to make this statement, actually, to devote to those positions that I think the Attorney General is going to defend. And I hope that Victor Pavlovich will use his profession to restore confidence in the Attorney-General's Office, to the law enforcement agencies, who have unfortunately fallen into a position of service because they have to serve the law enforcement authorities under the supervision of the prosecutor's office, not the authority, but the people. And they forget that they exercise their authority at the expense of their national resources, not at the expense of their own authority or at the expense of their own. They just forgot. I hope you can remind them of that. Because now that we've had total election disruptions, and not the election day we have to discuss, and what's now going on in Kharkiv, in Odessa, in Crimea, in Lugansk, and what happened before the elections was created from the knowledge of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the district authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the parties-klons, they have been sealed, the relevant documents, the proper administrations of justice have registered them, they've contributed, they've done everything to get the most opposition party out of the fighting field. You know, it's very easy to beat the world's boxing champion when he was arrested before by the police when she arrested him, so whoever won the ring won. And I'm surprised that it was the law enforcement authorities who founded their shoulders in order to carry out appropriate forgerys. Next. The law enforcement authorities cannot be used as punishments. Why, when arrested, when persons in high government positions are taken into custody, did they do State work?). I mean, like Makarenka and Didenka, so why would you choose this precautionary measure, whether it's using a tracking isolate as a pressure on everyone and on the opposition first. I'm sure everyone here can confirm that. The receipts are made by the Attorney General's Office and I actually wish there was an equal attitude, there can be no white and black MPs, they're all the same, they're all representing the people here. And it will be up to you, Volodymyr Pavlovich, whether you will beat this baseball bat out of your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u43	Ostap Semerak, the BUT faction is transferring the right to speak to Sergio Mishchenko, the BUT faction. Next is the national deputy of Shishkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, today I will act not as a national deputy, but as a prosecutor, as the classics say: “There are no exes.” I'm grateful that I can feel like a prosecutor in my faction, that I'm standing here right now and I can express my personal position on this matter. To me, the DA's office is a home home that has brought me together and taught me a lot of things. And I don't care who owns this place. First of all, I want to thank Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzko for doing a great deal over the past five years for the prosecution, and to say about Victor Pavlovich Pshonka. First of all, it's a professional who went from investigator to attorney general. And in our environment, that's very respectable. Secondly, it's stability for thousands of prosecutors and their families, it's discipline, it's order, it's what's appreciated in the middle of the prosecutor's office for being relevant to his colleagues. And I can say the following, in time, outside Victor Pavlovich's eyes will be called "our father", which is worth many of these stars on the chase. I can say the next thing is that he will stand up for the prosecution's position. I am confident that he will stand before the President, before Parliament. I'm sure he won't let politics replace professionalism. There shouldn't be politics in the D.A.'s office. I wish, Victor Pavlovich, you have strength, wisdom. I will vote precisely in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u45	National Deputy Shishkina, BUT faction, please. None. Andrew Sanchenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u46	Dear Victor Pavlovich, I have only one question for you: When will the country end arbitrarily? You know, examples of this arbitrariness can lead to a lot of people sitting here in this room, in both halfs of this room. And those people who stand opposite the Supreme Council today, and those mothers who have their sons killed in the militias, and very many and many people in our country. I'll give you one example, our Crimean. In mid-April, a respected leader and a deeply decent man, the head of the Eupatoria Seaport, Aleksandr Kotelnikov, were arrested. After six months of investigations involving numerous violations, the case was brought to trial. On 2 November, yesterday, the court decided, taking into account the condition of Kotelnikov's health, and he suffered a stroke in the detention facility, was repeatedly examined on a commission basis, the CT scan was done there, and the H-degree hypertension was confirmed. And the court also learned another fact that Kotelnikov had two minor sons born a week ago, so the court changed the measure of restraint to a non-refoulement subscription. Yesterday, at the exit of SIZO in Simferopol, he was undocumented, in fact abducted from the “quick assistance” he met, the people in camouflage, once again without any documents, and by force, lawyers who required documents were dismissed, and the person was transported in an unknown direction. Then, of course, the lawyers call the police, they say, "We don't know anything." They say, "We know nothing about Kotelnikov." At the I.V.S. Cimferopolski, they don't know anything. As a result, the police say to write a statement on the kidnapping of a person. We were able to find out that he was illegally, without registration, almost a day in a detention facility in Simferopol, while trying to falsify your subordinates from the Crimean Prosecutor's Office, falsify documents to substantiate his detention, and so forth. Well, I think once again, there are a lot of examples like this. I just have one question to all of us, and the question to Victor Fedorovich is, can we, along with Prosecutor Crimea Molicki, take him double Friday from his family? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u47	Paul Kostenko, BUT faction. Vladimir Yavorowski? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u48	Dear Attorney General of Ukraine, without five minutes, I think there is no doubt in this room that you will be elected. I would like to draw your attention to one such life and a very important and painful episode. There is such a public organization in Ukraine. It is called the National Association of Ukrainian Writers, where they belong, and will belong, I think, in the future, all the best writers working in the territory of Ukrainian literature. You are well aware that the period of court words has long ended. An artist who respects himself in one way or another should even be in opposition to power. That's how the whole world lives. Because of this, it is only natural that I, as the head of this organization, wrote five open letters to Leonid Kuchma, demanding that he withdraw his authority as soon as possible. For this, the National Association of Writers was given a colossal, colossal torpedoing of everything that was not. Before they tried to take over our premises in Banks at night, 2. The bush is gone. Yushchenko's here. I realized that sometime after the first year of his presidency that the president, the real Ukrainian president, would not work out, I had also written an open letter, quite abruptly, to the address of Yushchenka and published it in many newspapers. Then Balog took the case. When this association began to shake, the Crimean prosecutor’s office, the Odessa procurator’s office, the Kyiv district, the Kiev city, the Lviv region! Nothing was found in our property, which is owned by the National Association of Writers. I'm telling you again, nothing! Not a single note. There was a change of power. Other people came today. I have not yet written an open letter to Viktor Fedorovich. I haven't written yet. But it's already started. Well, it's clear to everyone that there is absolutely nothing in this Writer Association, the poor one! Thus, in view of the fact that one of the tenants in Koctebel moved his fence 2 metres, your investigators came to me and demanded that I give back all the original property documents! As one humorist once said, I'm not as stupid as I look. Of course I didn't, because tomorrow I won't find them at all and I won't prove to anyone that these documents were ever there. That's why I'm telling you again. I'm asking you to step away from this National Writer Association. There are no violations. And that's what your employees proved. Take more serious matters, see how much corruption is happening in Ukraine today and so forth. For this reason, on behalf of the writers, I am simply asking you to stop these political ones in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u49	Kirilo Kulikov, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction. Last performance. And invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u50	Dear Mr. President, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I'm sure the prosecutor's office will change, there'll be professional people coming to the prosecutor's office, we've talked about this a lot. I want to address you and I want to say that the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament, the Attorney General of Ukraine are in Kiev. What every official believes today is necessary to say that there was a horror in Kiev, that there was criminal power in Kiev -- that is, indeed, yes. So I'm sure we're voting for the Attorney General today. But there are a lot of cases in the Attorney General's Office about what's going on in Kiev. Today only six are responsible, indeed, for those who have embezzled the capital of Ukraine; those who have destroyed our historic, religious, cultural city should be responsible. I am very grateful and confident that today we will be able to change, and we will indeed be able to create a European capital, not a shame for all of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Now we're moving on to making a decision. I remind you, Your Honor, that the decision to authorize the Supreme Council of Ukraine to serve as President of Ukraine of the Attorney-General of Ukraine is taken by an open-ended name vote by a majority of the votes of the people's deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the President of Ukraine will appoint Pshonka Victoro to the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7325]] Please vote. [[11:01:24]] For 292 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Pshonka Viktor Pavlovich in connection with the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has almost constitutionally given consent to the appointment of Pshonka Viktor Pavlovich as Attorney General of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, let us also thank Medeksandro Ivanovich for having led the Attorney General's Office for a difficult period of five years. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the President of Ukraine for taking part in the consideration of this issue, namely the appointment of the Attorney General of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. Dear colleagues, in connection with the appointment of the Attorney General, it is logical to welcome the prosecutor’s employee, Shemczuk Viktorovich, who is now 40 years of age. [[Applause]] Yes, please listen to the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on November 2. Thirty-nine issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of their consideration, 1 law was passed, 9 bills were passed on the basis, 5 bills were sent to the Committee for Re-reading and 10 bills were rejected. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Bill No. 7266, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises, is being considered. [[on debt restructuring terms]] The author of the bill is Mikola Martinenko. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:04:10]] For 217 The factions, please. Regional Party – 156, “Timoshenko Block” – no, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 21, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 20, non-fractional – 20. I understand, Your Honor, your feelings. Who's in favour of returning to the vote on this matter, please vote. [[11:04:52]] For 256 We're back. I put to the vote the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of Bill No. 7266, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel and Energy Enterprises. Please vote. [[11:05:32]] For 248 Questions are included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, I understand that the committee has already considered this bill, so please be prepared after. In the afternoon, that is, in the evening session, we will consider this matter. Bill No. 0183 - Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank on the Cooperation and Activities of the Permanent Representative of the European Investment Bank in Ukraine is under consideration. Reported by Deputy Minister of Economy Kruczkov Irina Volodymyrna. From the committee to prepare Stepan Kurpil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u53	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft law is designed to complete the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank on Cooperation and Activities in Ukraine of the Permanent Representation of the EIB signed on 15 June this year. The main objective of the treaty is to open the Permanent Representation of the European Investment Bank in Ukraine and to regulate its legal status and activities. Today, Ukraine’s cooperation with the EIB is being implemented in accordance with the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the EIB, signed on June 14, 2005, which has already defined certain benefits related to the activities of the EIB. Part two of Article 7 of the Framework Agreement provides that the bank will use the regime granted to international financial organizations regarding its activities in Ukraine and which is most favourable. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank are already using the same regime under the Treaty. At present, the European Investment Bank supports various stages of the project cycle: initialization, preparation and implementation -- there are 7 investment projects totalling 1.2 billion euros in important areas such as transport, energy, energy efficiency and environmental protection. Ratification of the treaty will contribute to the expansion of such cooperation through the provision of financial resources by the bank to implement investment projects in the real economy. Why would the ratification of this treaty continue? First of all, the procedure followed by the initiation of projects and the harmonization of documents with the EIB is being reduced. And secondly, it's very important to create a level playing field for the European Investment Bank and other international financial institutions that use these privileges; to provide technical assistance on a non-returnal basis. The ratification of the treaty will be a positive signal for international investors and a good signal for Ukraine's further cooperation with the European Investment Bank, and will also allow for the expansion of Ukraine's very important credit resources. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration recommended that the Supreme Council adopt a bill as a whole. So thank you for your attention, and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u54	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Please, 5 minutes, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u55	Personally, I have no doubt about the purpose of ratifying this agreement. Moreover, I am convinced that in most of the session room there will be no obstacles to supporting your respective application. But I have a question about this plan: how can you explain that we will finally be able to ratify in the session room at the end of 2010, that ratification document that was supposed to be subject to ratification long ago? Because you rightly said that this made it impossible to come to Ukraine with the huge flow of investments that we so needed, at least in recent years. In terms of politics, are there any obstacles? Is this purely technical? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u56	Well, I'd say purely technical. But the treaty that we will ratify was signed this year 14. It's just been signed this year. I mean, why wasn't it signed before? Well, that's probably a question for the former governments.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u57	Please, Grigorovich Lilia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u58	I'm handing over the right to a question, two minutes to Arjevetine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u59	Please, Arjevitin, he's got two minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u60	Irina Volodymyrna, please tell me, if I were to take a closer look at this agreement, please tell me, and this is the income tax regime that was introduced in the contract with respect to the permanent representation itself, whether it would be extended to those credit investment programs, I mean the income tax regime, the credit or investment programs that would be carried out by this bank in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u61	This agreement applies, and the benefits, above all, apply to permanent representation, because, as you can see. By the way, there's only two planned now. Two people who will work in Kiev in this permanent representation. As far as the projects are concerned, they're going to happen, everything is going to be under active legislation, with those participants who are going to be involved in the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u62	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes, from the profile committee, Stephen Kurpil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on European Integration discussed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank on the Cooperation and Activities of the Permanent Representation of the Bank in Ukraine. In our opinion, the ratification of this agreement will contribute to further cooperation between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, which will create new opportunities for financing investment projects in Ukraine, increase the cooperation of the bank with regional institutions, allow greater access of public and private customers to the bank's credit resources, and regulate the status and activity of the permanent representation of the European Investment Bank in Ukraine. The European Investment Bank, in accordance with its statute and purpose of activity, primarily provides loans and guarantees for the operation of projects in the priority sectors of the economy. In particular, these are underdeveloped development projects, these are projects for upgrading or upgrading enterprises or for developing new types of activities that arise in a global market where these projects are largely or naturally unable to be fully financed at the expense of the funds that are at the disposal of individual countries. These are also projects in which the interests of several countries cannot be fully financed by other sources that are available to individual countries. The Bank does not lend loans to those projects against which the state denies. The committee therefore considers it appropriate to ratify the proposed bill and requests that the vote be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u64	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Who but Arjewitín insists on the word? None. Please, Stanislav Arzvitin, three minutes, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u65	Honourable national MPs no doubt need to support this ratification. Because the European Investment Bank is an international financial institution of the European Union that has been operating for more than half a century in various countries around the world. And given that this bank is already running in Ukraine, as we heard from the reporter, in our country, it's already making investment projects for quite a lot of money on our Ukrainian scale. And given that the framework agreement was already signed in 2006, I think that ratification of this agreement will add international authority to Ukraine, raise the investment attractiveness of our country and, of course, the hypothetical possibility of accessing the bank's credit resources. Therefore, the proposal is to support the ratification of this treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u66	Honorable National MPs. Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision now. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on the proposal to approve the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank on Cooperation and the Activities of the Permanent Representation of the European Investment Bank in Ukraine. [[Registration number 0183]] Please vote. [[11:16:05]] For 293 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the second-reading drafts. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act. [[on the construction of housing for military personnel and their families]] [[Registration number 6430]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Grigory Mikolayovich Kaletnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u67	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council, at its meeting on September 23, 10, reviewed and adopted the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 4, "On the Use of Lands of Defence", submitted by the People's MP Novikov. [[on the construction of housing for military personnel and their families]] We worked on the committee. During this period, 5 proposals were received from 5 national deputies, the subject of the legislative initiative, in line with current legislation. They're all discussed at the committee meeting. The amendment of the national deputy Yavorowski is supported in another edition. Thus, the provisions of part 4 of article 2 of the above - mentioned law oblige the military to use and maintain the land that has been provided to them in accordance with the requirements of land and environmental law. Thus, the proposed amendments to part two of the fourth article of the Ukrainian Law on Land Use do not comply with the requirements of part four of the Act, as well as with the provisions of the Code of Land. It is not possible to build even the kind of housing that is necessary for military personnel and their families without a change of purpose for which the housing is to be built, since this could result in an uncontrollable barrier and could result in the construction of land categories such as agriculture and forestry. The change in the destination of land to build housing can help to boost the building of housing and the necessary engineering communication. We invite the Supreme Council to adopt this important bill as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, we will vote. 1 amendment. George Smythech, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 2 revisions. I was a woman? No, it's not. 3 revisions. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u69	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you pay attention to what we received in the first reading. And we've accepted that the land of defense can be used to build socio-cultural objects, housing for military personnel and their families, as well as social and affordable housing without changing their purpose. Now what's left? And now you've taken and deleted the words without changing their purpose. I'm proposing, so you've made a gift for someone, a gravel of military land and all, let's put it this way. Is that what the law was about? Obviously not. So I suggest you write it down in this amendment. and the “accessible dwelling” and then write: “The change in the target destination of the land allocated for such construction is not allowed”, dot. This is a slightly different edition of what was adopted in the first reading, but it will not allow the land to be embalmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u70	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, we've worked on your amendment for a long time on the committee, we've looked at it and we've discussed it in committee mode, we've discussed it from all sides, and I want to tell you what it is that crystallised. You have actually made an amendment that sounds like the land of defense can be used to build housing, but the change in the purpose of this construction is not allowed. If we accept your amendment in this way, this ban on change of destination will not allow the new housing to be passed on to exploiting organizations and problems in privatizing such housing to military personnel and their families in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u71	Vote number 3, by Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u72	That's why we turned her down.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u73	The committee turned it down, yes. At the same time, I am voting on the amendment. [[11:21:32]] For -8 The amendment is not accepted. Yuri Carmazin, please. Please, the microphone, Yuri Carmazin. Carmazine's microphone. What else do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for supporting me. I would like to say that the honourable people's deputies, the 4th amendment, its accounting actually destroys the law and its progressive orientation. So I'm asking you to vote in favour of 4 amendments because it's just the opposite of the text that's in the law. So please put Mr. Head to confirm the vote on this amendment. If she doesn't get the votes, then the first edition of the first reading will be left, which was much more remote and better for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u75	Thank you for your initiative. I want to explain the following. This amendment is taken into account and supported by the committee, only not fully, because where it has been proposed in part, “I also believe that if the proposed changes are adopted, the construction of even such necessary housing for military personnel and their families can lead to an uncontrollable change”. We have not supported only this one paragraph in relation to the uncontrolled construction of agricultural and forestry land, and other categories should be noted that the project is intended to ensure that housing can be built only on defence lands that have a branched engineering infrastructure and cannot in any way affect the use of other categories of land. In part of all other paragraphs, Committee 4 amends support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on Amendment No. 4 to confirm it, and the committee has taken it into account. [[11:23:58]] For -8 The amendment is not supported, so it is deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Lands of Defence. [[on the construction of housing for military personnel and their families]] [[Registration number 6430]] Please vote. [[11:24:40]] For 247 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. [[on enterprises that use nuclear energy in their activities]] [[Registration number 6413]] The rapporteur is the head of the Economic Policy Committee Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u77	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine proposes to establish the characteristics of the bankruptcy of enterprises that use nuclear energy in their activities, such as to recognize the authority of state regulation of nuclear and radiation security, or its regional inspections by the parties involved in the bankruptcy of such an enterprise. The bill proposes to amend article 43 of the Law on Restoration of the Payment of the Debtor, or recognition of it as bankruptcy, which provides for: Involved in the list of particularly dangerous enterprises whose activities need to be stopped, as nuclear energy is used in their activities. Reimbursement of nuclear power-related activities, provision of information to the State Nuclear and Radiation Security Authority on the discovery of a bankruptcy case for nuclear power-using enterprises. Recognition by the State Regulatory Authority of nuclear and radiation safety as a participant in the bankruptcy case of enterprises that use nuclear energy in their activities. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a comparative table prepared by the committee for the second reading. The committee's decision is to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill in second reading and generally as a law. I would like to add that of the 11 amendments that have been tabled, of the 12 amendments that have been tabled by the people’s deputies of Ukraine, 11 have been taken into account. Not counting the 12th Amendment of Carmazin, it's rejected, well, which I think Deputy Carmazin was just looking for. He suggested that this law take effect the day after the day of its publication. The law stipulates that all laws take effect on the day of its publication. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! All corrections have been counted. We have every reason to put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, in general, a bill amending article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. [[on enterprises that use nuclear energy in their activities]] Please vote. [[11:27:56]] For 243 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'm announcing a draft law on the return to state ownership of the entire property complex of a limited-liability company called the Herson Machine Plant. [[Registration number 4530]] The rapporteur is Head of the Economic Policy Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenko. Who will report from the committee? Alexander Mikolaiovich is. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u79	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill was adopted at the first reading on March 2, 2010. On May 20, the bill was sent to read again. Before considering the proposed changes and draft legislation, I would like to inform you about the following. The Herson factory had considerable capacity for manufacturing technology. Combains were produced annually by 5,000, 7.5 thousand — trailers, combine trailers — 15,000, rain aggregates — 10,000 a year and pump stations — about 8,000. As we can see, the power was serious. This combine factory developed for the first time a project on the production of the Slavić grain harvester, which won the national prize. There were 13,000 people working at the factory. Everything's lost today. In 2001, the number of workers was 5,000, and today only 300. In 2008, the factory produced over 300 grain harvesters and 500 roaches. I would like to remind you that in Ukraine in the last 10 years virtually all factories that produced agricultural techniques have been lost. Today, if the combined load was 100 hectares [100 ha] in 1991, today it is 400 acres [400 ha], or 4 times higher. Today, energy weapons have been reduced 5 times compared to 1991. In recent years the machinery industry has virtually not put any modern tractors or combines. The production of tractors in 1990 amounted to 106 thousand in Ukraine, now 3,000 tractors out of 106 thousand. According to the Institute of Mechanical Engineering, as I said, energy. It's been reduced by five times. I think Ukraine was and should remain a farming state, but today we are transporting technology mainly from China, Poland. You can think about which countries we're transporting technology that we've produced ourselves in sufficient quantities and shipped for export. So we're practically investing a foreign producer today, but not our own. All of this tells us that we don't need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u80	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u81	the production of its own agricultural technology. Thus, dear friends, four amendments were made to the second reading. 2 amendments were made by Karmazin, and 2 amendments were made by me. According to Karmazin's amendments: 1 amendment, which was adopted and counted, 2 amendments were not taken into account by the people's deputy Carmazin because Carmazin proposes to reject the bill when 324 people's deputies voted in favour of the bill in the first reading. How Can You Be Rejected? And the last two amendments, Carmazine is one and mine. My question is that in the 2011 budget, when this combine is returned to state ownership, the state in the budget takes into account the necessary amount of funds for the factory to start working. Therefore, I feel that today, a reexamination of this issue deserves a serious approach and a necessary support so that our country, which has 34 million acres [34 million ha] of land, will have its appropriate modern technology rather than buy it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u82	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, amends now. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The point is that he was just asking questions about how to do it in accordance with the Constitution, in terms of articles 41 and 85. I didn't ask that question, I was talking about supporting the idea of protecting the interests of the state, but I think it's a little bit different. Because there's no primitiveism, I'd like the second amendment, Vladimir Mikhailovich, taken off, I won't insist on it, because it's not as it's written. And the third amendment, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't think it will prevent me from writing in this law that to the Attorney General. I will vote in favour of this law, but it will not prevent me from writing: “To the Attorney General to supervise the observance and proper application of the laws by the authorities of State and Economic Administration and Control, as well as by the purchaser of the entire property complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u84	Carmazine's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u85	Next. The State Property Fund. Take steps to return to the state ownership of the entire property complex in an orderly manner. "Herson Machine Plant" and compensation for the cost of a full recovery of this plant. And the Cabinet of Ministers to provide in the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2010 the necessary funds for the implementation of the measures related to the return to the State of the entire property complex of the "Herson Machine Plant" and the restoration of its activities. If you look, the honourable national MPs, the observation of the Legal Department, you'll realize that without these points it's impossible to implement this law, so I would like to ask you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, to support these. This is the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u86	Thank you. That's it. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are voting on Amendment No. 3 of Yuri Karmazin. [[11:35:43]] For-59 Correction not supported. And amendment number four. Dear colleagues, it provides for the draft law to include, in the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2010 the necessary funds for the implementation of measures related to the return to the state ownership of the whole property complex "Herson Machine Plant". Since we're considering the law right now, obviously we need to change 2010 by 2011. Right? I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please vote. [[11:36:32]] For 244 Correction counted. Dear colleagues. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I just wanted to inform you for half a minute. At 01.01.2004, the factory was worth 301 million dollars. This same year, in 2004, they sold the factory for 490,000 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u88	For reasons of vote. Alexander Bondar. Then Jaroslav Suhi. And Katherine Samuel. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u89	Alexander Bondar, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. I want to warn the Party of Regions, the faction of the very dangerous consequences of the adoption of this law, the political ones. If an object is returned to state property by law, in all countries of the world it is called “nationalisation”. There are mechanisms provided by law for privatization, whereby the Attorney General and the Cabinet of Ministers have the right to return the object to state property immediately. And that's what we have to do. The adoption of a special law will push investors away from Ukraine far more than the benefits you now want to bring into this law. I'm telling you again, by decree that the Cabinet of Ministers, the Public Prosecutor's Office, will not be able to resolve such matters. The government and the prosecutor’s office must act in accordance with the law. This object was removed from state property because of bankruptcy. How do you figure out the costs to be returned, that wasn't privatization. What are you going to vote for now, honourable deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u90	Jaroslav. No, it's already going into discussion. Jaroslav Suhi i.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I believe. I think this bill needs to be supported. And I'd like to ask the Ukrainian national deputy who has just spoken: and would you please call me one of the initiatives of the Ukryaina State Property Fund on your initiative, or has one treaty been broken? Dear colleagues, we will finally set a precedent when a particular subject of private property rights is removed from government property. And tell everyone here, how many of these objects are waiting for their turn in Ukraine? Neither an effective owner nor a better quality of work was expected by the Ternopil Combin Factory — a former agricultural machine - building pearl sold for cash. As early as 1991, four thousand bereavement complexes were released by COP-6, BMW-6, today it's a ruin, no one has answered and no one has answered for the fact that the unique equipment purchased at the end of the 1980s by the Soviet Union's currency went to scrap metal. That's the law you need.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u92	Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u93	Thank you very much. I don't want to push, I don't want to get emotional anymore. I just want to say one thing that we've grown up to take away a passerby who's not the owner at all because he bought one. Where, then, was the State Property Fund? Where, then, was he on the watch for Ukraine’s state property? I am addressing all of you, the more I am in the city of Herson, the Prime Minister of Ukraine of Azarov said, stated to everyone who attended the meeting that I was in favour of returning to the state property those enterprises, where careless owners, where they work for themselves, where they cut equipment for metal, where they enrich themselves, not the state and the state budget. I think today we're going to show people what the national attitude is about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u94	Honorable fellow workers! What? Vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in second reading and in general as a bill of the draft law on the return to the state ownership of the entire property complex of society with limited responsibility “Herson machine factory”. [[Registration number 4530]] [[11:41:30.]] For 318 The law is passed. At the same time, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal to prepare an appeal to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine to study and take appropriate action in the part of the one who will pay the State's money, because there are obviously huge debts on this plant, they will be on the government's account. To be compensated by those who have done so. Is there no objection? Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we'll give the holding fund an assignment. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the holding fund. Honorable fellow workers! [[B in m in s a l in]] I already said so, and the holding fund too. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of enforcement procedures is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Justice, Vladimir Pilipovich Filipenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished National Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meetings on 14 April 2010 and 30 June 2010 considered the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Improvement of Forced Implementation of Decisions and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second reading bill and generally as a law. The project was registered with the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the subject of the legislative initiative by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine is a direct developer of the bill. On March 19, 2009, the project was adopted in the first reading. For his acceptance, 356 national deputies voted. The aim of the project is to improve legislation that regulates the functioning of the State Executive Service and the enforcement procedure to improve the state of enforcement of decisions by courts and other bodies, as well as by officials. In the drafting of the bill at the Supreme Council Committee on Justice for the Second Reading, the basic provisions of the bill adopted in the first reading were preserved. Legal terminology, the removal of legislative disagreements in regulating the enforcement process, is appropriate. As a result. Changes in the role of executive leadership, since existing debtor status gives it legal opportunities to avoid making decisions. Corruption in executive conduct has been removed, the debtor's responsibility for deliberate failure to execute a court decision and obstacles to the activities of a public executioner has been strengthened, and legal instruments have been strengthened for the use of enforcement measures in relation to unscrupulous debtors. Certain categories of decisions have been regulated by law, such as the enforcement of binding decisions, and other changes have been made to ensure that decisions and decisions of other authorities and officials are enforced. Please support the bill in second reading. Also, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have more than that. Adam Ivanovich, we will also have five technical rights of editorial articles 122 of the Rules, which for one reason or another have not entered the text into the second reading. The Ministry of Justice supports them. So if you let me, when we talk about it, we'll give them an editorial transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u96	Let's see. Yes, please, let's move on, your honors, to the arts. I see that the vast majority of the amendments are included. Unaccounted for amendments by colleagues of Arjevetina, a colleague of Peacekeepers. Who insists on their amendments? Bill 2782 is under consideration, Yuri Anatoliovich. Stanislav Arjevitin, don't you have it? None. Yes, Miroshenko does not insist. Who else? Once again, honourable colleagues, a bill under number 2782 is under consideration, amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve enforcement procedures. No notes? Yes. Please turn on the microphone. Voropayeva, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u97	I would like to draw your attention to the amendment of Pisarenko 426. This amendment is in fact an opportunity to block the decision of the Supreme Economic and Supreme Court of Ukraine on economic and civil disputes through the administrative courts of cities and areas. Moreover, this amendment is contrary to another amendment by Philipenko, Pisarenko, excuse me, 321. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this cannot be allowed in any case, it is wrong, and I propose that this amendment be put to the vote again now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u98	I see. Dear colleagues, the proposal for amendment 426 is taken into account by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:47:22]] For 1 Correction not counted. Can I have your attention, please? None. Then come on, Vladimir Pilipovich, try what you have to offer. Pay attention, fellow believers, for they offer to make more out of the voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! There is the amendment of 245 Pisarenko, part 8 and part 11 of article 62 of the draft text prepared for the second reading following the words: “.The costs of the organization and the carrying out of the execution are paid” and we ask that we add the words “the requirements of other tractors are met”. And part 11 after the words: “ the coming of the implementing documents to be implemented, to be completed with the words: ". taking into account the order of order” defined in article 44 of this Act. The Ministry of Justice supports this, and the need for introduction is that a technical error has been made that actually needs to be corrected, because otherwise there is a gap in the procedural moments when the property is being arrested.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u100	Vladimir Philipovich, please give me this correction. Is this us before 62? I put to the vote the amendment to the 8th and 11th parts of article 62 as proposed by the committee and agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers in the Ministry of Justice. Please be supportive. [[11:49:16]] For 231 Supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, four more clarifications. Amendment number 249. There is a third part of article 64 after the words of article 62 of this Law to be supplemented by the words “and property that is not subject to implementation”. Why are we making this right now? Because according to the Ukrainian Law on Executive Implementation, property removed from circulation by law is not subject to realisation. This proposed bill provides an order in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, only property that has not been implemented. In this way, legislation will create a gap that will prevent the decision to confiscate properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u102	I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. [[11:50:20]] For 222 Let's see the factions. Who's in favour of coming back, please vote. [[11:50:43]] For 243 We're back. I'll put this amendment to the vote. Please be supportive. [[11:51.]] For 243 Offer supported. Please, who else?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u103	Thank you. Article 70. There's an editorial detail. In item 536 it is proposed that the words “in connection with the loss of a breadwinner and loss” be added to the words “or damage”. It's a necessity. This rule regulates the possibility of bringing up to 50 percent of the debtor’s salary in the event of damages of a crime. In doing so, the damage caused by the same crime will be compensated in general. Thus, with a view to further protecting victims of crime, it is proposed that a similar order of execution be established to compensate for the damage caused by the crime. So we're putting it completely in line.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u104	I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. [[11:51:56]] For 236 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u105	Thank you, fourth. Amendment number 288. The second sentence of part 7 of article 74 of the Bill after the words “at the same time the size of alimony” should be supplemented by the words “if they are collected in part from earnings or income”. The need for this is a connection; we will avoid a double interpretation of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u106	Yes, please put this motion to the vote. Please be supportive. [[11:52:39]] For 218. Let's see the factions. Who's in favour of coming back, please vote. [[11:53:03]] For 253 We're back. I'll put the motion to a vote, please. [[11:53:19]] For 251 Supported. Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u107	Thank you, part of article 83 of the bill, for supplementing the last sentence with the following sentence: “When a copy of the original of the executive document is carried out or the executing court decides to stop the execution.” Here, I think it's too much to comment on, because you can't do the execution on copies of documents, and that's forgotten on second reading, so I'm asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u108	The vote is on the motion, please vote. [[11:54:04]] For 249 Supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u109	Thank you! In connection with the previous one, there are related editorial clarifications in line 340, suggested in part four of article 88 that the second sentence be deleted. What is it? In view of the fact that in the case of exceptions to the original documents of the executive, it is proposed to stop the execution, to set a standard, to make decisions based on copies of these documents is not appropriate, this is linked to the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u110	There's a motion on the vote, please support. We're going to announce a final committee, Jaroslav! [[11:54:47]] For 246 Supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u111	Thank you. We take notes, two more. There is an editorial clarification to further include in the bill a rule on the exclusion of part four of article 183 from the Ukrainian Family Code. Since the standard has significantly worsened the child’s protection, since it forces the alimony recipient to appeal every time a lawsuit is made to change the size of alimony, it is constantly when the minimum size of alimony is changed by law. In this regard, it is suggested that the rule should be deleted and that the obligation should be placed to recalculate alimony automatically in the event of changes in legislation, a minimum amount of alimony that can be applied to one child as a public executioner, so that families do not constantly run to court or redistribute alimony to the higher level.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u112	There's a motion on the vote, please vote. [[11:55:46]] For 249 Supported. And the last amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u113	Thank you. And the last. The Ministry of Justice suggests that in order to avoid different interpretations of the proposed wording regarding the time of validity of the law, in the right hand of 500, the word “in 3 months” should be replaced by the words “in 90 days”. It's about taking effect by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u114	It doesn't matter. Well, it could be three months more than 90 days. I put to the vote the amendment to enter into force in 90 days. Please be supportive. [[11:56:29]] For the 250. Supported. And Arjovitin insists on 8 amendments. Please, it's Arjevitin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen! My 8th amendment is an amendment to the State Treasury's fundraiser order. You know it's a special account, there's a special regime for this account. And my proposal would be to write more clearly on the order in which these funds are written off. Well, first of all. There must be a court order. Because you just leave the word "coupling decision," whatever the reality is. I therefore proposed that it be clearly stated: “The decision of the Court on the collection of funds by the State Treasury shall be carried out in accordance with the order approved by the National Bank.” And that's how the State Treasury should do it. So I would like them to support this proposal. Because she is clearly qualified and agrees with the National Bank, which handles this treasury account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u116	Vladimir Philipovich, please, the committee's argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u117	Thank you. The committee rejected the amendment because it did not fit into the concept of the law. It's about order, about the order of execution of court decisions and the authorities that do it. That's why the committee rejects her.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u118	It is true that the 8th amendment of Collegiate Arjevetina is put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:58:08]] Z-11. Not supported. Who are the others who made the proposals but who are unaccounted for, insists? There's no such thing. Then I put to the vote a motion for adoption in the entire bill number 2782 amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts, taking into account the amendments that you and I have supported. [[on improving enforcement procedures]] Please vote. [[11:58:54]] For 287 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we may have every reason to take a break. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u119	Please get ready for work. Let us now consider the question of the election of judges. Reported by the Head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Samsin Igor Leonovich. The draft Decree 7326 is under consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u120	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! According to article 76, part three, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of that Act, as well as a review of the application of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government bodies for the activities of candidates for the post of judges who came to the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine on a stand-by basis during the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to appoint judges. In accordance with section 27 of the first part of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decision to recommend candidates for election to judges on an untimely basis: Kyiv's Administrative Court of Appeal, Widdichenko Tetjana Romanovna; The synonymous municipal court of the Dnipropetrov region of Novik Lali Murmanovna; The Sofia District Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Jerelejco Olen Eugene; The Red Guard District Court of Dnipropetrovska Tkachenko Ilon Yuriyovna; The Alexandrian Regional Court of Kirovograd, Chonnelidze Ludmila Mikolayevna; The Ternovian District Court of the city of Kryvog Dnipropetrovsk District of Melnik Yuri Petrovich; Malinovo District Court of Odessa Garsky Alexander Viacheslavovich; Chevalier District Court of Poltava Region Tetjana Viktorovna; Kremenchuk District Court of the Zjemtsov district of Volodymyrovic; The Romanian District Court of the Suman district of Shulga Viacheslav Aleksandrovitch; Krasilovsky District Court of Hmelnicka District of Wozniak Ruslan Vasilovich; The Bologna District Court of Kyiv Koldin, Alexander Olegovna; Khachatrán Victoria Sergiyevna, the Economic Court of the Harkowsk District of Grebenjuk Natalija Volodymyrovna; Economic Court of the Czernovetsk Region of Sweden Mikola Vasilovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you may have pointed out that most of today's women are recommended for the election of judges, so let me be kind to this Order 7326 on the election of judges on an untimely basis. Please vote. Vote. [[12:35:15.]] For 232 Decision taken. Carmine microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u122	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I don't know how they've been, but I have a question about that. Judge Teslenko. This is Kobelyci district. [[Poltava Region]] There is an application for the release of a member of the Sofulco High Council of Justice. It is evident that the higher qualifications commission is aware of this. Obviously. But is it deliberately done that was put to the vote, or has that name not been removed, or is it not? And, Adam Ivanovich, in such a case, there may be a strange situation when this decree is now being appointed, and the next day another decision will have to be released, with the term “for breaking an oath”. Perhaps it would be better if we didn't? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u123	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I'm saying one more time that I support you 100%, but unfortunately, the law is the law. And, indeed, we are now appointed by the same law and by the submission of the same institution, and tomorrow, under this Act, “On the judiciary and the status of judges” for the submission of another institution, we can release one judge or another. Those are the rules, unfortunately. Decision taken. Please consider Bill 7326-1. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u124	I am submitting the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the election of judges previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on the civil and criminal cases of Furik Yuri Petrovich; The Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u125	Yes, please, after Furika's remarks? Right. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u126	The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine Kalashnikov Olen Volodymyrna; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Okolot Hennady Mikolaiovich; The Winnicki Administrative Court of the Smělnik Edouard Stanislavovich; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Cassanceyev Eduard Hennadiovich; Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal, Yakovljev Aleksandra Volodymirovich; Kharkiv's Administrative Court of Appeal Curilo Liana Volodymyrna; Kharkiv’s Court of Appeal Krestyaninov Aleksandrovitch, Pelipenko Nina Mikhailnovna Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u127	Please turn on the Spike microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u128	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I have a remark from Judge Furik. Today it is the judge of the Hmelnicki Interregional Court. Without going through a certain facility, he is assigned to a higher specialized court, a higher specialized court. I wonder how, in view of his particular case, the High Qualifying Commission could have missed this nomination when it was only this year that fifteen sentences were abolished by higher institutions. Recently, as yesterday, all his affairs are under consideration for five years. Recently, as yesterday, another case, a five-year case was considered in two days, in two nights, in some way there was a need to consider the case, it was considered, and a person was sentenced to eight years on purely household business, there was no criminal. And it doesn't smell criminal. And I wonder once again, High Council, how could they miss this judge today? I object accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u129	Okay. Thank you. Bill 7326-1 on the election of judges is put to the vote for the exclusion of the name Furik Yuri Petrovich. Please vote. [[12:39:43]] For 261 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Petrovich, come to the microphone. You've heard the National MP's remarks at your address, which you can say about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u130	In fact, it was delivered yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u131	Closer to the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u132	was sentenced to one of the criminal cases that. One of the defendants was convicted of one of the criminal cases and one of the defendants was sentenced to eight years of imprisonment for one of the articles, that's 191th part of the fifth, well, ownership by abuse of the service position, causing great damage to the enterprise, more than a million damage to the enterprise and these damages are not compensated to the enterprise. Well, a person has a right to an appeal in this judgment. The law did not give effect to judgment.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u133	Yeah, don't get into trouble. Please, Igor Leonovich Samsin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u134	Let the people's deputies explain. If you remember, in the last session where I reported, there were appointed judges, 24 judges in the Higher Civil Criminal Court. Furik and I went through the examination, we looked at all the materials that came to the Higher Qualifications Committee, all the complaints. But we did not bring him to the Supreme Council simply because he was dealing with a criminal case. And the criminal case is over. When did you finish? He finished a criminal case yesterday, ruled a verdict. So today he is taking himself to a meeting. And I want to report to you, honourable national deputies, that any warnings from members of the commission, we are. I want to say again, we are carefully studying all the materials that relate to the appointment of a new higher court, because it is this court that is going to have procedural oversight of all the courts of general jurisdiction. And you know that these are troublesome courts, because it is on the basis of these courts that our society is judging the entire judicial system. There's a lot of them, these courts. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u135	Yes, respectable colleagues exchanged their thoughts. Well, another Spaka microphone, please, Vasil Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u136	It is in this court that there must be responsible judges, clean, honest judges. We have so many complaints about those judges today, and the unwarranted have complaints. And we're missing a judge who hasn't reached this court today. He failed, and yesterday’s sentence confirmed him that it was not that simple. For five years, the case was considered, and in two days it was completed! I had to leave the case to another judge to look into it. I’ve been looking at it for five years! Then, how can a qualified commission miss it when 15 sentences have been suspended in the past year! This year. Please don't. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u137	I see those who wish to speak. Please write down after one minute who wants the factions. Yes, please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u138	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u139	Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u140	Dear Igor Leonovich, distinguished Adam Ivanovich, is a problem that will probably haunt us for one year in the future, since from the first day that the Qualifying Commission makes its decision, we see that there are certain problems. I just think you can get out of this situation at least in this way, Igor Leonovich. It would be very helpful if you would discuss each time what the results of the individual judges you promise to consider in the next session would be. Because you say that there was really no proper application in certain periods and you are obliged to consider it. If you were to look at it, maybe it would take a little bit of tension off. Because I feel like, for example, there's going to be a negative vote in court right now, and what to do next, I don't know. Adam Ivanovich, you remember that we raised this question on this committee. And you and I seem to agree that in the near future, we're going to settle in some way through the Law of the Rules or in some other way, what to do if there's no positive decision in Parliament. Then let's do it, maybe if.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u141	Dear colleagues! Tedeuve, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u142	I'd like to give Bondic a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u143	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u144	Bondiku.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u145	Bondiku Valeria microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Igor Leonovich! We know that there are requirements of the Venice Commission, and we have accepted with you here together, your honorary colleagues, the Judicial Act and the status of the judge. And unfortunately, we don't have the right, because it's a civilized Europe that interprets as pressure, political pressure on judges. And unfortunately. I agree with my colleague, but unfortunately we have no right now, we have a ceremonial role: we must vote in favour of this judge. But to you, Igor Leonovich, it's the right thing to say, you see what you're writing there -- a remark, from public organizations and so on. None. Well, you'd better be careful about having people like that run a qualified commission of yours. And we're already in the hall with the existence of this law, unfortunately, we don't have any right with these judges, because he's innocent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u147	Filipina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look at the situation we have now, how many judges have passed, and no one has been noticed. There's a point to a judge right now. As we can see, neither the special bodies authorized to examine nor the Higher Qualifying Commission nor the High Council of Justice have. In fact, observations are taken from the ceiling, misunderstood figures, the judge is in an awkward position, he's naturally anxious, and he gives a negative impression about a judge we're not even familiar with. I'm asking you not to do that, let's do the law. There's a motion and an appointment for this judge, let's vote. If there are any legitimate complaints, we need to go to the High Council of Justice, to the Higher Qualifying Commission, and not here now, we have neither a moral right nor a right under the Law “On the Status of Judges and Courts” to put any claim to a judge, all the more groundless and not supported by any evidence. So I ask my colleagues to support this judge and act according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u149	Thank you for your exchange. Dear colleagues, all the factions have come forward. We'll vote. I remind you that there was a letter from the President pointing out what Comrade Philippeenko was saying. But I want to add only one thing to all of this: there is a Constitution that gives the people's MP the right to make decisions and he has the right to be determined, as he deems necessary. And there's an article in the law that says that if it's not supported, it's going to vote again. How many times does the law not say? But every national MP has a right to vote, so please, this is the Constitution, the law for us here is lower than the Constitution. I am voting on the proposal to be elected as Judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters by Furik Yuri Petrovic. [[12:48:07]] For 260 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u150	Next order, Your Honor, registration number 7326-2, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u151	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Introducing the submission of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the appointment of judges on an open-ended basis: Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal Shevchuk Olga Anatoliyevna; The S.H.I.E.L.D. Intruder District Court of Kharkiv DistrictJazenka Evgen Ivanovich; The Kyiv District Court of Kharkiv Muratov Svetlana Alexandrovna; Ordjonikidzewski District Court of Harkov Shevchenka Sergey Volodymirovich; the Economic Court of Mikolaiyev district of Koval Sergey Mikolaiovich; The economic court of the Lviv district of Delai Ulyan Ivanovna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges on an untimely basis. [[Registration number 7326-2]] Please vote. [[12:50:07]] For 276 Decision taken. Now the next project, Rule 7326-3. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u153	I'm filing for the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the appointment of judges on an open-ended basis. The Kyiv Economic Court of Appeal, Malerenko Artem Vasilovich; Wynnicke District Court of the Vinnitsk district of Princzuk Valery Volodymyrovich; The Tivrov district court of the Kiosak district of Kiosak Natalija Alexandrovna; The New Moscow City Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Krohmaluk Ines Petrovna; The proletarian district court of Donetsk Beerware Julia Alexandrovna; Illíchiv District Court of Mariupol Litwinenko Natal Viktorovna; Orikhov District Court of Zaporozhye District, Fisun Neonil Victorovna; Shevchenkov District Court of Zaporozhye Artemov Lilia Hermanovna; The Slavotic City Court of Kiev, Teremecki Natalija Fedorovna; The Fastev Regional Court of the Kyiv district of Solovai Galina the All-involved; Peter's District Court of Kirovograd District Kolesk Svetlana Ivanovna; The Suvorov district court of Odessa Lupenka Andrija Valeriyovich; Economic Court of Luhansk Kovalinas Marina Yuriovna Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 7326-3]] Please vote. [[12:52:06]] For 304 Decision taken. Now draft Supreme Council Decision, please. [[Registration number 7326-4]]
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u155	In accordance with paragraph 27 of the first part of article 85, part of the first part of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part two of article 80 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and status of judges, I ask the Supreme Council to choose: Mishtenka Stanislav Mikolajovic, previously elected as Judge of the High Court of Justice on civil and criminal matters by his consent. This is the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine who has agreed to transfer him to the Supreme Special Court on civil and criminal matters. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of Mishchenk Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, previously elected in absentia, as judge of the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine for civil and criminal matters under his consent. [[Registration number 7326-4]] Please vote. [[12:53:34]] For 295 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u157	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, please welcome the judges whom we have just chosen to serve on a temporary basis and wish them successful and fruitful work in the respective areas. [[Applause]] Yes, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u159	Dear colleagues and honourable judges, and the Head of the High Qualifying Commission, here we have one problem that we've talked about and I'd like it to be publicized. The fact is that the Transitional Positions of the Judicial and Judicial Status Act state that when judges from the Supreme Court are transferred to other courts, the status of the Supreme Court judge remains with them. And that's why they proposed a motion for a ruling not to select the previously elected one, but to transfer it to the judge. It's more logical to translate, but unfortunately, 85 and 128 articles of the Constitution don't give us that right, we have the right to choose in the Constitution. And so after choosing the previously elected one, and having recorded that he follows the statement and consent, all the benefits that provide for the “Ending Positions” remain with the judge, so let them not survive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u160	Yes, dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter, once again we welcome judges with an important professional background in their lives, and we wish them success in working in good health, thank you. Yes, dear fellows, we are now going back to reviewing drafts in the second reading mode. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on the procedure for the replacement of Ukrainian national deputies whose powers have been suspended for a period of time]] [[Registration number 7232]] Demchishen Vasil Vasilovich, please head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u161	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies was considered by Parliament in its first reading. [[on the procedure for the replacement of Ukrainian national deputies whose powers have been suspended for a period of time]] [[Registration number 7232]] But it was based on October 21, 2010. In this Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, it was entrusted with the task of developing a draft law that took into account the comments and suggestions of the subject of the legislative initiative. And bring it up to date for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule at its meeting on November 2, this year, reviewed the comments and suggestions submitted to the bill by Ukrainian National Deputies Karmazin, Krutz, Pisarenko, Podgorny, Fominim. As a result of consideration of the 7 amendments and suggestions made to the committee, 5 of them were counted, 2 were rejected. In particular, the committee agreed with technical and legal proposals and proposed to change the name and structure of the bill. Taking into account the comments made to the bill in its first reading, the committee also agreed that it was appropriate to clarify the definition of the status of the party or bloc as to which it could be excluded from the relevant electoral list. Therefore, instead of the term “a candidate who is not considered to be elected”, it is proposed that “a person who has not been recognised as elected MP”. The bill is prepared for consideration in the second reading in the form of a comparative table. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made separate remarks to this bill and believes that it is subject to rejection as being contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. However, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies”, registration number 7232, on the basis of a second reading, to be adopted in a second reading. [[on the procedure for the replacement of Ukrainian national deputies whose powers have been suspended for a period of time]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u162	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! Is this not the fourth amendment, the People's Deputy of the Underworld insists? No, it doesn't. And the 6th amendment, Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that this bill is extremely serious. I'd like you to think that this is about political parties being given the right to exclude persons from the election list of candidates for the national election after election day, that is, the electorate has actually already made their choice. For this reason, I believe that this is abnormal or should apply only to those who will be elected as far as the next election, not to these elections, because now the electorate did not have such a right. This is why my amendment refers to the exclusion of this rule, because it is contrary to the ideas of national sovereignty and national representation, the content of which is recognized by the bearer and the sole source of authority by the people who exercise, first of all, through freely elected representatives in general elections, not through political parties that are content.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! Please, is there any reason from the committee for this matter or should we put it to a vote? I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 6 of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:00:07]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Yuri Klukkowski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u165	Thank you. I have a warning about the last amendment and the last paragraph of the bill about the time it takes effect. The point is that the exclusion from the party's list of decisions is a form of constitutional and legal responsibility for certain things that a candidate is doing to an MP. In all other cases, he may voluntarily give up his mandate. However, I point out that persons who were elected in September 2007 were chosen in the absence of this standard. And so the introduction of this rule from the day this law was published means the retroactive force of the law. They will be punished for not being considered a violation at the time of their actions, and no sanctions have been imposed. Therefore, the law can take effect only from the time the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes office, and now it cannot take effect from the time of publication. This was also noted by the Chief Legal Officer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u166	Finish up, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u167	Thank you. I simply point out that this has also been emphasized by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority. That is why I believe that in this way the “Ending Position” cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! Now let's put the amendment to the vote. Here's the amendment to the amendment. Because the bill stipulates that it takes effect from the day it was published, and the proposal was from the next call, right? Well, I'll put this amendment to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:02:18]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u169	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I really wanted you and I to stop anyway, that's why. The main administration of our legal, so to speak, is the last instance, but there is no addiction to legal accuracy, says that this very position of the law is anti-constitutional. How can we vote on this issue in the Supreme Council Hall? The other one. When people voted for party lists in a proportional system, I, well, I'm not convinced that every electorate was paying attention to it, but some of the voters were paying attention to the turnaround in which some of the deputies or other deputies were stationed. No one would deny that it mattered to anyone who had the first number, who was the second, who was the third, who was the fourth, who was the fifth, who was the same in that tail section, for example, and who was the second, who was the second, who was the fourth, who was the fifth, and who was the same in that tail section, who was the same, who was the same, who was standing in one place or another. Because, well, it's absolutely stupid if we vote today. I'd like us to stop anyway and really or from the next call of the Supreme Council to introduce him, because now it can be simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u170	Yes, please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u171	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Our Parliament will never vote "stupid," yes. And that law will not vote. I don't know why anyone thinks he's going to vote. No one's gonna vote him, yeah. Parliament has always adopted and adopted a wise national solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in the entire draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies. [[on the procedure for the replacement of national deputies whose powers have been suspended for a period of time]] Yes, we do. [[13:04:44]] For-0 The bill was rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't joke about such evil. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll tell you later. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider a bill amending article 155 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. [[on take-up under guard]] [[Registration number 7084]] At the same time, he is offered to be transferred. Please, Vladimir Romanovich. Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u173	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you actually started the report, the law was passed at the first reading on October 19th this year, and the Supreme Council cut the bill twice as long. At the same time, you were also given an assignment to look into it by the deputies and on October 20, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We have considered twice, but there are still legal orders from the Ukrainian national deputies. The committee therefore requests that the consideration of this bill be postponed to a different date. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, shall we vote? Then we'll have him suspended for next week, won't we? For next plenary week. The same applies, with respect to respectable colleagues, and to the draft Act amending Chapter XII, “The Final Position”, of the Ukrainian Law “On the Courtship and Status of Judges”. [[on the transfer of cases relating to social benefits]] [[Registration number 7148]] On the Conciliation Board, we discussed this issue: The need to consider it. At the same time, the committee requests a postponement of its consideration, taking into account the need to reconcile a number of positions. Is there no objection? We're saving it for next plenary week. I'm announcing a draft Culture Act. The reporter is Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski. Please, the microphone. Microphone. Please turn on Vladimir Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u175	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The law was ready, even though it was very difficult, there were many suggestions. He is ready, the committee has accepted him, the table, but for this hour and for this moment and for today he has not yet been processed by our Chief Legal Administration and Editorial Commission. As a result, we should not take risks with such a basic law today. Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's move it. He's ready, he's normal. Next week, you stand up and we'll take him in.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, no objection to delay his consideration for the next plenary week? We're done. Dear colleagues, we now have three laws: 4528, 2260 and 3433 — which we cannot consider because they do not comply with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. Thus: they do not comply with the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, once again I speak publicly to the committee heads, this is the second time we have returned these bills to the committees to bring them into line with 116 articles. Unfortunately, the committees ignore the regulations and say that we will do nothing. Then we'll publicly refer to the heads of committees who don't want to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u178	I refer once again to the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, in accordance with the Rules, in particular with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Act supplementing the Ukrainian Law on Land Protection. [[concerning the issue and cancellation of special permits for the removal and transfer of land cover]] Next. I am addressing the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, bring the draft Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine into line with certain laws of Ukraine, and I am addressing the Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of the draft Law on Lombards and Lombard Activities, otherwise they will not be considered. [[on the improvement of the State registration mechanism for the cessation of shareholders]] Honorable fellow believers, please bring them into line with the Rules. All of it. The draft Decree is announced for consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. One minute, well, one minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Stanislav Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the permission of our committee only because we have not violated the Rules, 116 articles, because the law that we have is the Law on Lombards and Lombardy. We did not deviate from the first reading; our committee did so according to the full procedure. So the charges against our address, I think, are wrong to address our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I take back my words on Bill 3433 because I was misinformed by the secretariat. And there is another suggestion: to move it to the plenary week from 16 to 19 November in connection with the need to reconcile its individual positions with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So I apologize to the head of the committee and the committee for saying that there is another reason why we should postpone consideration of the matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a change of heart. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider a draft decree to amend and establish the boundaries of the city of Komsomolsk Poltava. I'm asking, let's look at this in a simplified way. Please vote. [[13:12:49]] For 206 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of Sinchenko Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u181	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Poltava District Council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with information on the change and establishment of the border between the city of Komsomolska. I inform you that the territory of the city was established by the decree of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR in 1987, amounting to 75,000 acres [725 ha]. Of these, 5,000.667 hectares — the city’s territory or 73 percent — are occupied by the Poltava mining and enrichment plant and its two kinds of iron quartz. The project to change the boundaries of the city of Komsomolska, which is developed by the state-owned company Poltava Research and Project Institute of the Land Authority, provides for the transfer to the city of 3,000,371 hectares of the suburban zone of the Komsomol City Council, which do not refer to the surrounding rural councils and do not form part of the Kremenchuck district. Businesses, institutions, organizations, and just 600 acres [600 ha] of land are actually located in the area. Thus, the area of Komsomolska’s territory will be 11,000 acres [11,000 ha] after making the changes. The question of the change in the boundaries of the city of Komsomolska Poltava region is accepted in accordance with the current legislation and is considered and approved by the Komsomol City Council, the five village councils of the Kremenchuck region, the Dmitry Village Council, which is part of the Komsomolsk region, the Poltava District Council and the district government, the district departments of the central executive authorities. A positive conclusion was also reached in the service note by our office in connection with local authorities and local authorities. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations expressed support for the mentioned issue of the availability of the conclusions of the Poltava District Council and the development of the project with regard to changes in boundaries.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u182	Microphone, please. Finish up, finish up, the microphone's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u183	But it's management. And such agreed decisions of the Poltava District Council are, but no agreement has been received on "Cherkasysytransgaz" and management. Oil pipeline.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's make the right decision, all the necessary documents are. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend and establish the boundaries of the city of Komsomolsk Poltaw. [[Registration number 7312]] One minute, take the vote off. I said, take off the vote. Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, please. Individually, you have to listen. Please be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u185	You listen to me, colleagues, because I'm not kidding about what we did on the committee. So I can't agree with the committee's decision of October 20th. According to the accompanying documents submitted to the committee, the composition of the land that is proposed to be included in the border of Komsomolska, i.e. within the city's borders, includes the lands of the security zones, the Cremenchuk-Herson main pipeline and the state-owned gas pipelines of the Ukratransgaz State Corporation and their gas distribution stations. In accordance with article 1, paragraph 9, of the Law on Pipeway Transport, the protection zone is the land along the main and industrial pipelines that provide normal conditions for their operation, preventing damage and so on. The size of these protection zones is established by Cabinet Order No. 1747 in 2002. In accordance with this decision, it is forbidden in these areas to build housing for other buildings, to build garages and parking lots, garden and garden buildings, highways, to build fences, and even to place moving and stationary pastures. However, according to an explanatory note to the draft decree, land included in the city’s borders is planned to be used for new businesses, housing, and engineering. It turns out from the oral explanations on the committee that there is also a plan for the placement of garden-town cooperatives, which is prohibited by law today. The need to take into account the requirements of the Protection Zone Act is highlighted in particular in the conclusions of the Poltava District Administration and in the decision of the Committee on Agrarian Policy of our Supreme Council. However, there are no documents that confirm that these observations have been taken into account in the committee’s administration today. So I think that the Supreme Council's decision to change the boundaries of the city of Komsomolska does not meet the requirements of legislation, and its adoption may lead to a change in the boundaries of the city of Komsomolska.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u186	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u187	could lead to technological catastrophes in Komsomolska. At the same time, I would like to point out, from a procedural point of view, that there was no decision, no draft decision, registered in the Supreme Council. In fact, the draft ruling was not considered by the committee, and materials were considered. As a result, I believe that this issue should also be removed from our consideration today.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u188	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, we have not once considered expanding the boundaries of cities. On the one hand, those who are trying to resolve this issue can understand, cities are growing, but there are problems that I would ask the profile committee to be very, very careful. For by the land of the land of the land of the land of the countryside, the councils take to the city for a single purpose, distribute the land to the walls, and make good money for it. I would like to keep in mind that those villagers who become residents of the city immediately lose a number of social benefits that they are given as residents of populated rural areas, that is, teachers, doctors, and so on and so forth. And most of all, what my colleague Klukkowski has brought to our attention, we can't do that. So I say, let's have the profile committee look at this again, and we'll get back to it. Because you can't do things in such a hurry that you can immediately see what it's sewn with white threads.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, in view of what is being said, one minute, not only of expanding land, but rather of the fact that these extended areas are part of Chercasitranzaz territory, Ukratransnafta, which may have unexpected consequences if all the rules that are defined to preserve and prevent objects from being placed above such objects as gas pipe and oil pipe are not respected. And given these remarks that Yuri Klukkowski was talking about and what Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk was talking about, let's put off for the next week, let's ask the committee to consider. Victor, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! I have a request to reconsider this matter on the committee, and then we will return to its consideration. Do we have to make a decision or not? Please. There's some. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u192	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Here's what we're thinking right now: whether you sell a kitchen knife or not. They say you can't because he's gonna dump it with that kitchen knife. That's exactly the logic. Can I sell the gun? Nope. They say you can't. Because he's not gonna shoot a chicken, he's gonna shoot people. But where's that coming from? Where and where does this pipeline go — in the village or in the city? That's when they're gonna do something, and then we're gonna have to punish them. Now, what's the point here, we decide. And it's also absurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u193	Dear colleagues! Well, please, please. I'm going to put two motions to the vote. First. In connection with a counterversive approach, first to consider the subject of a decision. And the second sentence, if it doesn't go through first, is to postpone for one week to study the question. Please, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u194	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In discussing the findings of the Committee and the materials in the oil pipeline and the management of the gas pipelines, the Committee considered that the general plan of the city of Komsomolska and the construction of the land structure included the inclusion of the Cremenchuk-Herson oil pipeline transport corridor, the Krkrtransgaz main gas pipeline and gas distribution stations with their security zones and the identification of a special regime for their use, as well as the inclusion of surrounding land belonging to the Komsomol City Council. According to building regulations and regulations since 1985, which have been referred to by designated authorities, zones are distributed for the design of new and reconstructing of highway pipelines. The oil pipeline was put into operation in 1971. Road pipelines began to be used since 1976, around the pipelines, according to state regulations and regulations, transport corridors covering between 150 and 200 meters wide, security zones and never housed housing and household objects prohibited by legislation. These objects took place in the area of the Komsomol City Council and were under the jurisdiction of this city council for over 40 years. Gardening societies were located near and outside the transport corridors of the security zones! The land under which Poltavski’s decision was given at 219 of August 15, 1988, and the decision of the Komsomol City Council at number 474 of December 29, 1988. This project has undergone a complex urban expertise. The possibility of inclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u195	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u196	Agreed by the Scientific and Technical Board of the General Administration of the State Commission in the Poltava region.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the materials we have are all given to the National Deputies. What, are we going to organize a collective reading? Two suggestions, dear colleagues. The first sentence is the committee's decision to consider a draft of an appropriate decision extending the boundaries of Komsomolska. And the second sentence, in view of the committee’s deputy head’s separate opinion on the need to study the matter in order to ensure that our decisions do not conflict with the law and decisions of Kabmin, is postponed until the next plenary week. In this sequence, I'm going to put it to a vote, anything else, that's going to be the argument of the pros or cons of any approach. So I'm voting on a proposal to approve the Supreme Decree. Who's in charge of considering now the adoption of a draft decree to change and establish the boundaries of the city of Komsomolsk Poltava. [[13:26:02]] For 171 I'm voting on a second proposal to postpone the consideration of the draft ruling for the next plenary week. Registration number 7312. Please vote. [[13:26:29]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Two factions, the BUT faction and the faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" require a 30-minute break according to the regulations. They are willing to make a statement so that we can continue to work productively. You can't. You have to vote. Let's do it, fellows of honor! Make a statement, not a statement. political process, please. There is a proposal for this statement, its sounding, to broadcast to the area where opponents of the Tax Code have gathered. I'm voting on this proposal. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:27:26]] For 104 The decision is not taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u198	Dear colleagues! Respectable entrepreneurs, those who can hear us! Unfortunately, the Hall has now shown that no one wants to hear or talk about the problems that exist. Under the walls of Parliament, several thousand entrepreneurs came, not to a political rally, but to an economic rally. People who have been able to create jobs that have managed to organize the income of the budget, people who defend their right to live in a normal, economically free country. And their demands are simple enough. And they ask us to obey the law. A law which, according to the Budget Code, assumes that any change in tax legislation may be adopted before 15 August and only then to enter from the New Year. They require us to consider the first reading of the Tax Code to postpone and begin to consider the Tax Code, as stated in the Budget Code, to adopt it by 15 August 2011 with a view to its entry into force not earlier than 1 January 2012. Adopt a Tax Code that truly takes into account the views of entrepreneurs and that would be prepared for public discussion rather than for a private corporation of tax bureaucrats in front of tax bureaucrats. Regrettably, the document currently in Parliament has been prepared by bureaucrats for bureaucrats. It does not bring any income into the budget, does not improve the business climate, does not improve the country's investment attractiveness. Therefore, the demands of the people gathered today under the walls of Parliament are very simple: to postpone, to stop considering an illegal, illegal instrument and to adopt the Tax Code, which would benefit the country. And another requirement. Regrettably, they ask at least to take the first step towards the people who have come under the walls of Parliament today. Today, Parliament has passed a decree recognizing the loss of force of the Tax Code, prepared by me as the People's MP and by Laupina Xenia Mikhaylovna. Regrettably, the registration of this order is blocked by the registration sector of the Supreme Council. Entrepreneurs personally ask you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to take at least a step towards the economic elite of society, to register a regulation that conforms to all the rules of the Rules and that this order be considered in accordance with the Rules of Parliament. This is the little thing that depends on us today, this is the step forward, that we at least hear these people and deal with the problems of these people and are ready to go to them, what it requires us to do today. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u199	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention again! No one brought these people in, no one paid them money, and no one in any political colour adorned this action. Go outside and listen to these people. And I think from whatever party.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u201	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think concern has its place. At the same time, I am convinced that what has been proposed must be implemented. Together with representatives of small - and - medium - size organizations, sit down and process their view of the positions they are concerned about in part of the Tax Code. And when this project is done, then we're going to see if it's worth considering whether or not we're going to make decisions. We are currently having a discussion about a document that does not exist. And instead of working on it, we're talking about not having to work at all. So the suggestion is to work on trying to get the best of it to fit people’s needs. That's what we agreed with you. Take it easy. That's what we agreed on. And let's do that. Now, let's talk about the draft decision. From the point of view of the Rules, they do not register and do what is right. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine examines the draft in the second reading of the Tax Code and does not take a decision, then it will consider your decision on the draft. Please read the Rules and let's do the work. Do not create headaches. All of it. I'm telling you again, according to the Rules, we can't do this, we can't do this because of everything you and ours and mine. Please. Dear colleagues, we need to consider withdrawing some draft legislation. They're defined in Project Order 728, they're defined, I see without you, we're in the process of dealing with the issue. Please, calm down. Draft Decision on the withdrawal of certain draft legislative acts. Dear colleagues, you've been given this project. It is suggested that a number of issues that no longer fall within the purview of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, particularly in the part of, say, the dismissal of government members. Today it is no longer the prerogative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's clear up our legislative portfolio and take off those issues that are not within the purview of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. No objections? I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] What procedure? Now we're done, there's gonna be a second procedure. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please withdraw from the vote. Sergei Sas, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u202	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You just mentioned the Rules. I want to draw your attention. Please open the 104th article of the Rules, which is written in response to the bill. The removal question is invalid. Why? Because it's only possible to remove it as a result of the withdrawal. Callback by the author of the legislative initiative. In this case, what happened? Some national MPs, the subject of the legislative initiative's right, have introduced these bills, and here other MPs, from the committee, are withdrawing them from the legislative initiative. What will we live to see tomorrow?Oh, my God! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, part 2 of article 104, says that there cannot be a bill included in the agenda before the first reading. may be recalled by decision of the Supreme Council. And the third part. It is stated that it is necessary for the initiator of the legislative initiative to make a written application. What are you doing??
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u203	I'm not doing anything! No emotion! No emotion! You just showed up at work. No emotion! Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u204	Sergei Volodymyrovich! And you can read Rule 95. And in the 95th article of the Rules, part two says: “The Supreme Council may, by its decision, withdraw the bill from consideration if, by adopting other legislative acts or other reasons, the bill has lost its relevance.” And the committee says that in connection with our return to the 96th Constitution, first of all, we have no right to release the members of the government, second of all, we have already adopted a new version of the Cabinet of Ministers Act and that is why. which corresponds to the current Constitution. And so, based on 95 articles, the committee has absolutely the right to bring such a draft decision before us.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u205	I'm going to say we've decided which plane. So now our colleague's got it? All of it. I understand. Next time, learn the material part. I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 7281. [[13:36:30.]] For-162 Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return to this issue. Well, calm down, please! Please vote back on the matter. [[13:37:01]] For 243 Decision taken. We have returned to the consideration of the matter. Now I'm looking at a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it as a decree. [[Registration number 7281]] Please vote. [[13:37:30.]] For 242 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, regarding the insistence that a corresponding draft decree be registered. I can do it this way, I think that's the right thing to do: to send this draft ruling to the regulatory committee to give an opinion on. One minute! I tell you again, I'll fix it - no screams! - to the regulatory committee on whether or not this project has the right to life. Because I understand your requirement: you will now block to register this document. Him. Just a minute. It will be registered, and tomorrow you will block the rostrum, requiring that this document be considered. I understand you, but the regulatory committee, if we've had a discussion, without it, without it, without the screams of these, listen properly. that the regulatory committee, which is represented by all factions, should give an appropriate conclusion. I think that's the right approach, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u206	Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u208	I want to tell you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u209	The administration responsible for the registration of documents is doing just that, based on the decisions of the relevant letter that came from the regulatory committee, it is first to explain that such decisions do not have the right to life. Second, well, you're aware that everything is resolved in the session room is not from what document is and how it is registered and when. When the Tax Code is considered, if there are no votes for its adoption, it will be rejected and no decision is required, if you have a vote and you are convinced that it really needs to be adopted, it will not be adopted without a decision. And that's why you're in a completely flat place, absolutely in an equal place. Because your decision should also receive a minimum of 226 votes. And that's why Vladimir Mikhailovich is absolutely correct in saying, "Let the regulatory committee return to your ruling and give its opinion accordingly." There's nothing here about whether or not she will be, but you realize that you're not making any decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u210	I want to say it again. Dear colleagues, if you think there's a violation of the Rules here, show me what a violation of the Rules is. Once again, dear colleagues, calm down, let's keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u211	No, it's not. Dear colleagues, the draft Decree on the withdrawal of individual draft laws of Ukraine on the issue of a fuel-energy complex is under consideration. Registration number 7283. For similar reasons, the committee proposes to withdraw a number of bills that are already largely included in other legislative acts. Is there no objection? May I, Mikola Volodymyrovich, put it on? I'm voting on the draft Decree, registration number 7283, on the removal of the separate laws of Ukraine from the issues of the fuel and energy complex. Please vote. [[13:41:10]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to put in order a daily draft of the Ukrainian Act on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision on the participation of Ukraine's peacekeeping contingent, the provision of operational support for the UN mission in Côte d'Ivoire, registration number 7289. I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're going to study now. [[13:42:04]] For 241 We've included this issue in the agenda, we'll be able to look at it in accordance with the Rules after 16 hours. Dear colleagues, now your opinion is suggested in the section on return for reconsideration with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. This is the Law of Ukraine amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on City Electrical Transport, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 27.07.2010. [[Registration number 2486]] The rapporteur is Minister of Housing and Utilities Hivrich Yuri Jegorović. And Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich will speak from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u212	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Electricity, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 1, 2010, amends part one of the first articles of the Law on Urban Electrical Transport, which applies tariffs to the population for electricity consumption during the main activity related to passenger transport. So the Supreme Council of Ukraine directly regulated electricity tariffs for urban electricity. At the same time, the enforcement of pricing policies in accordance with paragraph three of the Constitution of Ukraine refers to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thus, the Supreme Council intervened in the field of the Cabinet of Ministers’ powers by violating article 85 of the 116th Constitution of Ukraine. It is also important to note that, in order to implement and within the limits of the powers of the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine adopted an order of 26 June 2007 No. 881 on electricity tariffs for urban electricity, which dealt with the issue of the application of electricity tariffs for urban electricity to the population and determined the mechanism to compensate for the loss of electricity producers from the provision of electricity by urban electricity transport. In view of what has been said, please support the proposal of the President of Ukraine and reject the Law of Ukraine amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on City Electrical Transport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u213	Thank you, too, sit down. The committee's decision? Valerius Alexiyovich, please represent the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u214	Dear National Deputies! It is understandable why this bill is designed to solve the problem of transporting passengers to our cities. The problem is not only the price of electricity, but the problem is that the State is not fulfilling its obligations that it has delegated to the local authorities regarding the free movement of many categories of our citizens. And utilities, and private businesses, have to move citizens, but they don't get compensation from the state. It is clear, then, that the authors of the bill went out of their best interests to support them, but they fought, not the causes, but the consequences. The committee considered the bill and concluded that it should be rejected, since the implementation of the price policy of the Constitution of Ukraine is referred to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers and by adopting a law that deals with the implementation of the direct regulation of tariffs, we are interfering with the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, the Committee on Housing and Utilities proposes that the above-mentioned law be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u215	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the committee has agreed with the President of Ukraine's proposals on the need to reject this law. We need to be determined now about making the right decision. Because if we don't now vote for the President's first rejection proposal, then I will put the veto to the vote. I therefore put to the vote a proposal by the President, supported by the Committee, to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Electrical Transport. Please vote. [[13:47:32]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, there is still time for your opinion to propose a draft Law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Electrical Transport. [[concerning the implementation of the Standard Agreement on the Provision of Transport Services]] [[Registration number 7050]] There is a request to consider it as a reduced procedure. [[13:48:18]] For 190 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Minister of Affairs, JKH Hivrich Yuri Yegorovich, co-rapporteur, Vice-Chair of the Committee Valeriy Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u216	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Electricity was designed to reinforce the individual provisions of this article. An analysis of the state of implementation of the Ukrainian Law on City Electricity shows that the implementation of individual regulations is formal. In particular, this applies to the requirement for a contract between local self - government and city electric vehicles, which should determine the volume and quality of transport services, obligations and rights of the parties, order and time limits, and so on. The draft Act provides for the implementation of the Model Agreement on the Provision of Transport Services by City Electricity, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which will ensure that customers and carriers comply with the requirements of legislation, including the rules for the provision of services to the population for the transport of urban electricity approved by the Cabinet. It's about meeting the rules of the inter-accounting mechanism that is actually provided by the enterprise with transport services, that is, recalculating the local authorities' funds to enterprises for the actual work done, the movement of passengers according to the fixed cost of one wagon and a kilometer. The adoption of this bill will allow conditions to be created to stabilise the financial situation of urban electricity, whose enterprises currently have more than 15 percent of the damage, and will overcome the constant debt from salary payments, payments to the Pension Fund, and so on. The specified draft act is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u217	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u218	The proposed draft act is supported by the Association of Ukrainian Cities and social partners, the relevant committees of the Supreme Council. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u219	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Valerius Alexiovich Baranov, deputy chairman of the committee Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee supports the Ministry's initiative to order the passenger transport of all categories of citizens of our state. Therefore, we support and suggest that we accept it as a basis for further development into second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u221	Thank you! Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? If there is, please sign in. We'll see. Yes, dear colleagues, there is reason, since there is no desire to participate in the discussion of this issue, to put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Law amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on City Electrical Transport. [[on the introduction of a standard contract on the organisation of the provision of transport services]] Registration number 7050. Please vote. [[13:52:30.]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, let's continue our morning session. Break, huh? Dear colleagues, then such an offer. Let's do it that way. We're about to conclude our morning session. At 16 o'clock we'll continue. But before that, let's vote, dear fellows, because this is the next draft of the National Environmental Policy Act, which contains less than 100 articles, we can look at it in a simplified way. Let's make the right decision. Yeah? Come on. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Registration number 7053. [[13:53:47]] For 217 Decision taken. Its committee carefully, it's a question, it's dealt with and it's offered to be accepted as a basis. No, I'm just asking how we're gonna be right now. Report? Then please report. Romanov Mikola Ivanovich. Everything's gonna be fine now. And I would ask Anatoly Ivanovich Seminogue for a co-report as well. Huh? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u222	Thank you. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft National Environmental Policy Strategy for 2020 is an important policy document defined by the priority action for cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union. And it is an important prerequisite for signing an association agreement between Ukraine and the EU. The need to develop and adopt a strategy is due to the complex environmental situation in the country and to the absence of a comprehensive strategic document today that would include the formulation of goals and priorities for environmental protection, in accordance with the requirements of the current period of development of the country and the economy, Ukraine’s international commitments and European principles of environmental policy. The need to form and implement national environmental policies comes first of all from a number of Ukraine’s international commitments. Implementation is a prerequisite for achieving the goals adopted in the year 2000 at the world summit. The introduction of an environmental strategy for Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia, adopted in 2003 at the Kiev Conference of Ministers for Environmental Protection, the Environment for Europe, as well as the international global and regional conventions in the environmental field and the gaps to which Ukraine is a party. The objective of the strategy is to stabilise and improve the environment of Ukraine through the phased achievement of the objectives set, as an integrated factor in Ukraine's sustainable development and the guarantee of an environmentally sound natural environment for life and population health and the introduction of an environmentally sound environmental management system. In order to implement its priorities, Ukraine has reached an agreement with the European Union on the provision of budgetary support to the European Commission for the environmental protection sector of Ukraine of 35 million euros. These funds will be allocated to Ukraine upon approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u223	Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u224	the draft Ukrainian National Environmental Policy Strategy Act for the period until the end of 2020 and the preparation of performance indicators agreed with the Ministry of Ukraine for the implementation of budgetary support, which will form the basis for the preparation of a financial agreement between Ukraine and the EU. We are confident that the new national environmental policy is the first sure step in that direction. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u225	Thank you, too. No, still head of the committee. Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u226	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues of the national MPs, introduces the draft Ukrainian National Environmental Policy Strategy Act for the period up to 2020 for the first reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill is aimed at shaping the principles of national environmental policy, the strategic objective of which is to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens to a clean environment, to ensure environmental security, to introduce a balanced environmental management system, to preserve natural ecosystems, to maintain their integrity, to improve the quality of life and the health of our population. We all realize that without defining strategic directions in the ecological plane, at least for 10 years at least, we risk losing our natural resources both qualitatively and quantitatively, and with them the health of our citizens and the potential for our economies to grow. Today, a document defining government environmental policy is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision of 5 March 1998 “The basic principles of Ukraine’s policy towards the environment, the use of natural resources and environmental security”. 20 years ago, it was a fairly progressive document. The strategy project received a rather broad resonance in society. Before considering it, the attention of the Ukrainian public, environmental organizations, international organizations, and it must be fully studied and analyzed. In order to determine the position of society in the bill, to eliminate all contradictions and gaps in the committee, the committee hearings were initiated on October 6 of this year. Many comments and suggestions were made to the document. There are a number of observations on our committee as well. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposing that the draft law be submitted for further work as a result of the first reading. However, the committee, based on what is indeed a very important document for our nation, is asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u227	Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u228	requests that the document be supported in the first reading. The committee undertakes to develop it for second reading and to issue a quality document for our nation. Please support our committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-11-04-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, there will be no objection to supporting the committee's proposal and putting to the vote the issue of adoption on the basis of the draft law? Is there no objection? A proposal for a committee on adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act on National Environmental Policy of Ukraine for the period up to 2020. [[Registration number 7053]] Please vote. [[14:00:20]] For 272 Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. At 16 o'clock, we're going to continue our consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for Thursday, and we're going to consider the deployment of peacekeepers. [[First question]]
