ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:03:28]] They registered cards in the 408 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Order on Withdrawal of Certain Bills on Tax Matters. [[Registration number 6108]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Mikola Petrovich. Please. So who's gonna report from the committee? Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to remove such bills from your consideration, and I will read them out: draft Uranium ore mining bill, draft Law on State support for accounting in Ukraine, draft Law on amending and supplementing certain Ukrainian laws on the prevention of the use of tobacco products and its harmful effects on public health, draft Laws on the amendment to article 9 of the Ukraine Act on fixed agricultural taxes on the extension of the tax period, draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the taxation of returns to Ukraine. [[Registration number 2269]] [[Registration number 2309]] [[Registration number 2457]] [[Registration number 3330]] [[Registration number 3580]] The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Prevention of the Negative Effects of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of the Agro-Industry Complex. ” [[on donor sugar operations]] [[Registration number 4348]] Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law “On Taxes on the Income of Individuals. ” [[Registration number 4366]] The draft Law on Limitation of Smuggling and Drinking Beers, the content of ethyl alcohol with more than 0.5 liters and low-alcoholic beverages. [[Registration number 4653]] Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the development of an agri-industrial complex. [[Registration number 5429]] What will be the reasoning in this regard, fellow believers? Please, Taras Blackwall, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I suppose the determination was, indeed, thoughtfully, well worked out. But we don't know the final motives for taking it off. If there was a report, we could really define ourselves. In this case, I'd still have an offer to postpone until there's a reporter. Perhaps the secretariat could be asked to search for them to come to the hall and report, to report on the situation, for, frankly, we voted once before on the previous issue without a report. There are a large number of drafts that are quite different according to their subject matter. What applies to taxation, but there may be different motives, different principles. And that's causing some anxiety. We already have a bill on the annulment of a whole series of legislative acts, and we've been looking at it on the committee. There are those who have actually lost their full validity, and there are documents that are in force today and that are necessary today. So I have a proposition: I'm going to postpone the question until there are no reporters.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u3	I'm asking the secretariat. Where are the reporters, first? And secondly, we can't wait for them to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is tantamount to the fact that a person does not come to a factory, to a school, and does not work. And the head of the committee, and the entire composition of the committee. Dear colleagues, then let's take it off the table at all, and let the committee continue to work on these bills. A draft Act amending the Codes of Ukraine on the imposition of responsibility for the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people is being announced for consideration. Registration No. 2136, Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee's committee on the law enforcement of Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Codes of Ukraine. This is about introducing responsibility for demeaning the dignity of the Ukrainian people. The Ukrainian people as a unity of all citizens of the state according to the principles of democracy and according to the Constitution of Ukraine are the central category of the system of government of the state. It is his interests that are of primary importance. Hence any public disregard for his interests, the humiliation of his moral and ethical values is a direct threat to both the principles of the people's government and society. It is also complicated that the difficult period of searching for their identity and statehood has led to the formation and dissemination in separate circles of the false idea of the failure of the Ukrainian people to complete state building, of their secondaryity to other peoples. Sadly, this trend is compounded by the fact that it has not missed out on individual officials in government and local government. So when representatives of the people or parts of them make statements that demean the dignity of the people, they don't only insult Ukrainian citizens, they ignore the principles of indirect democracy. Under such circumstances, the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people has become a sign of crime, a socially unsafe act against the constitutional principle of the peoples of the world. The dignity of the Ukrainian people is a very complex category, which not only characterizes its level of social significance, but also serves as a motivational element of the unity of the Ukrainian people, the engine of the social economic and other processes of modernizing Ukraine. Yet today, the cultural diversity of various parts of Ukraine is not viewed as acquisition and multifaceted, as it is indeed, but as an indicator of destructive state processes. The absence of real challenges to such trends only deepens the problem of both the unity of Ukrainian lands and the self - respect of the Ukrainian people as sovereign. Promoting disrespect for its people does not contribute to the formation of the needed unifying idea for all who live in Ukraine today. This stimulates the authorities to constantly seek compromises between different developmental vectors while stopping the development of a single strategy for the transformation of the state. In this way disregarding the self - respect of the people has hampered both the democratization of the political system and the economic processes associated with population well - being. Thus, bearing in mind the social importance and urgency of ensuring the self - respect of the Ukrainian people, it is suggested that responsibility be imposed for the humiliation of their dignity. The draft law, which I report on, provides, firstly, for the introduction to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences of a new article 185/13, which provides for responsibility for the violation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people. That is, any public action aimed at bribing national, traditional, spiritual-cultural, moral-ethical values, ethnic identity and the historical memory of the Ukrainian people that undermine its authority among other peoples and dishonor its self-esteem. The other one. Given the special status of government officials and local self - government as representatives of the people, they are criminalized for violating the dignity of the Ukrainian people by introducing a new article 337/1 into the Criminal Code of Ukraine. In addition, amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code suggest that criminal investigation into the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people, similar to the abuse of Ukrainian State symbols, is carried out by prosecutors. Now, a key postulate or a key position on predicting what might be the questions and statements that disagree with the positions that have now been made. Obviously, this may be the result that honourable colleagues have read the relevant conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Authority, in which it is actually stated, I deliberately want to emphasize that the actions for which responsibility is proposed in this bill, which I report, are now provided for in article 161 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which is prohibited under the threat of the punishment of deliberate acts aimed at the humiliation of national honour and dignity. Thus, by referring to what is already in law, it is that the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people is a category that cannot be considered. This is a serious mistake, scientific, legal, and legislative. Why? Referring to this, the basis for a negative conclusion of governance is the identification of the terms of national dignity and dignity of the Ukrainian people. Thus, the people and the nation think that those who oppose this bill have the same meaning, and this is wrong and this is not true, because the people and the nation are different categories. This approach is criticized by many sciences, and more importantly, the difference lies not only in political approaches and linguistics, especially the famous philosopher Mikola Berdiev said the difference is that it can be understood by the word “obvious”. If you translate into other languages, “ext” and “popple”, “ext” and “occe”, which mean completely different things. But both in the legal and more specifically in constitutional law of Ukraine, these phenomena are also not identical — the nation and the people. Of course, in this case, the last and the legal interpretation is crucial for the legislative process. Yes, the Preamble of the Constitution of Ukraine indicates that it is accepted on behalf of the Ukrainian people, Tyre, citizens of Ukraine of all nationalities. Thus, the people are a uniting category for all citizens, regardless of their nationality. As a result, the concept of “nation” and “nation” are not identical. As a result of this humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people, insults on the national soil are not the same. As the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Institute of Law pointed out, and in preparing this bill, we asked him, the content of the concept of “the Ukrainian people” is the set of groups of people on the basis of citizenship. The category “Ukrainian People” is legally related to the concept of the Ukrainian State, which represents the interests of Ukrainian citizens who bear the dignity of the Ukrainian people. The corresponding humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people is a recognition of Ukraine’s inability as a state. In turn, the humiliation of national dignity is an emphasis on the secondaryity of the nation in relation to others who live both inside and outside the nation. That is, the article provided for in the Criminal Code protects only part of the nation, which is now valid. If humiliation involved a nation or representatives of a nation living in Ukraine, yet not a nation as a whole. I had to say such things, use certain scientific definitions to warn possible questions about what the Ukrainian people deserve. I said that there is the dignity of the Ukrainian people and that there is a humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people. In our view, honourable colleagues, the implementation of this bill will not only increase the status of the people, but it will enable some of the hot heads, first of all, to understand the local self-government that insults the language of Ukraine, that insults the people as the bearer of this language, that insults the sovereign Ukrainian people is not allowed or punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u5	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a question to the reporter! Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u6	Dear reporter! An extremely interesting idea is put in your parliamentary legislative initiative, the question is, will it be implemented? I think yesterday's coalition, which included the Lithuanian Block, definitely supported this idea. Today, will it be interesting if your idea will be supported by tomorrow's coalition? As you can see, by taking such an initiative, does it contradict those arrangements that were made in Moscow by the newly elected President regarding the status of the second state language, and that, before that, the issue of the humiliation of the Ukrainian people was not raised at a high level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u7	Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich! Until every subject of the legislative initiative, and that is every national deputy in Ukraine, will consider the process of legislation and legislation because of the faction-party-quota interest, we will be called carcases. For example, I don't consider myself a carcass, and because of what I think is necessary and what I think I need to regulate in Ukrainian legislation, we need to implement, no matter what coalitions, "kaolitics" and so on. Because I'm sure. The Block of Lithuania is convinced that the coalition is an instrument, and everyone in this room has a much bigger and more serious goal. In my opinion, the implementation of this bill will allow for serious steps to be taken to achieve and achieve this goal, and I have said about this goal that awareness of the dignity of the Ukrainian people is a serious mechanism for bringing people together, for joint action regardless of coalitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u8	Yuri Carmazin faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u9	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Oleg Alexanderovich, I agree with your legislative initiative in that part of protecting the dignity of our Ukrainian people. But I think I just have another way of protecting myself, and I predict that instead of being administratively responsible, we have to expand the criminal, that article that we administratively have to make criminal, and I'm telling you this as one of those people who devoted a lot of their lives to working on the Criminal Code. But at the same time, I would like to make it clear to you that the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people is also a violation of the Constitution, of the laws, including the Law on the Regulations, which today, contrary to common sense, adopted changes that were to be voted on by the bodies on Thursday or Friday. They broke the law. Is that not a humiliation of dignity? This is also a humiliation! We're a long way from here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u10	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor, Yuri Anatoliyovich, I did not intend to politicize my speech, but I will say, but I have to say that the huge humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people is that over the years the Ukrainian people do not have their ministers of the key ministers of finance, the Minister of Transport and communication, that the constitutional positions of the head of the holding, the heads of the Antimonopoly Committee are empty, this is a humiliation to the people, and it shows that they cannot choose, even these constitutional leaders. By the way, Yuri Anatoliyovich, the very great humiliation of the people is that today the people, in 2010, are financed by standards 1 out of 12 because there is no budget in March months, I think you agree with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u11	Pavlovsky People's Deputies, Timoshenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u12	Dear Mr. Oleg, it's a nice idea, and the Yulia Tymoshenko Block will support it. At the same time, however, it is necessary to define more clearly what is the demeanor of dignity, by which the criteria are demeaned or not. And what's more, we're witnessing this, this is a very good idea that in the local authorities, different actors have to be held accountable. There are examples when the people of Donetsk City Council told them that there is no such thing as Ukrainian or Ukrainian. So I think that's exactly the law they need. And at the same time, answer the question, is it a humiliation of the dignity of the people of taking power in an unconstitutional way, a violation of the valid Constitution, when there are unambiguous language, how does the government coalition form, how does the government form, and by whom exactly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u13	This impression is, frankly, that this bill has not been read. There's nothing there about what you're saying. But, if that's what you're saying, I think you see this as a referendum going on, the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people is when its representatives, the Ukrainian national MPs, monopolize the right not only to draft and adopt laws, but also to interpret them in a constitutional context. Because this is the task and only mission of the Constitutional Court. And none of those present, including me, even those who are active legislators are members of the Constitutional Court. Overcoming the powers of constitutional interpreters, and in fact the Constitutional Court, is also a bad rule. And now essentially your question, on a subject called. You're saying there's no such term. There's a term. He enters, I read it. Article 185. 13. Demeaning the dignity of the Ukrainian people, that is, any public action. I emphasize that no one can punish anyone who says something in the kitchen. Let the mother-in-law speak or the father-in-law speak. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u14	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u15	It's public action. Public, demonstration, if you like. And we're seeing it now, as some representatives of local self-government say that there's no Ukrainian language at all, that it's not modern, and that it's not even good for science. That's what happens. So it's aimed at bribing national, traditional spiritual and cultural, moral and ethical values, ethnic identity, and the historical memory of the Ukrainian people. And as a method, mathematics says, from the reverse, I'll say that even though there is an article on national humiliation, there is no definition of this article in the code. So I don't want to say that we don't have to refer to it, but that's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u16	National Deputy Sovkovic, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u17	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that there is no head of the Committee on Legislative Security in the Chamber today, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to say that, despite the fact that the Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council proposes to reject this bill, the committee unanimously decided to support it. And I want to express the opinion and position of the committee on supporting this bill on behalf of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u18	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u19	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Oleg Alexanderovich! You said very correctly that when we talk about the Ukrainian people, we mean citizens of all nationalities. And this is, indeed, because the representatives of each ethnic group as a self-sufficient element of the entire Ukrainian people are part of the Ukrainian people. But we have the Constitution of the Ukrainian people, when it comes to deciphering for citizens of all nationalities, the Ukrainian people are written with a capital letter, or political term. Your bill contains the Ukrainian people with a small letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u20	That's not my place, that's the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u21	But it's all right in the daytime. And it means that if you do, it's an ethnic moment, if you write a capital letter, it's a political one. How do you put it here in your document?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u22	Ivan Vasilovich, only in capital letters, all the language in the bill in capital letters, this agenda is not formed by me. I answered. Clearly, this is not an ethnic moment. And the Constitution itself defines that there is a Ukrainian people, that this is the population of all citizens living in Ukraine, of all nationalities. Therefore, the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people is more than a humiliation of national dignity, even though it is unacceptable, you can understand why.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u23	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u24	Oleg Aleksandrovitch, of course, is a very interesting initiative in your bill that you're introducing right now and it's, so to speak, theoretically controversial. I agree with you that the Ukrainian people are citizens who live in the first act in Ukraine, and this is in the Constitution because of the tire set out in the preamble, yes. I have this question in mind: can you please tell me how this is spreading and how you can see whether this bill, the rules of this bill, the changes you are making to non-citizens and they cannot be Ukrainian people because they are temporarily living or living without the right to reside? That's the first question. And the second question. Of course, such a question of “the Ukrainian” and “the Ukrainian citizen” did not disappear – these are different concepts. And you know that a lot of Ukrainians live outside and dignity here isn't always protected by the state, although the rules of the Constitution must protect and protect citizens, wherever they are. It's like this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u25	I got it. Thank you. We have a good enough legal regulation, and this, by the way, is taken care of by the Human Rights Committee, by national minorities and by international relations, about the status of foreigners living in Ukraine. They also regulate their status, their place, their authority, if you want, their rights and obligations are governed by other laws. This law applies to the Ukrainian people. As for our fellow countrymen who live abroad, if they are nationals of other countries, it is clear that they fall under the laws of those countries where they are citizens. If these are people who live there temporarily, as we demean sometimes say, adjectives, then of course they are essentially, not essentially, they are part of the Ukrainian people, and this law extends to them. And for the record, I mentioned, Yuri Anatolyevich, I'm not moving away from your question, you said on criminalization. Nevertheless, the bill proposes criminalization for government officials and local governments. Because it's too bad that they ignore the interests of the Ukrainian people much more.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u26	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u27	It's not about ordinary people. I think there are enough administrative measures here, but for those, up to criminal responsibility. That's true, you've noticed.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u28	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. I invite the head of the committee's committee on the law enforcement of Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymirovic to report. But I was just in the hall. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speech on the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u29	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken an interest in discussing this bill and I believe that today on the 196th birthday of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk, this bill is absolutely right. The only thing that needed to be done here was a little bit of a different accent and a little bit of a different accent. In particular, I also believe, Your Honor, Oleg Alexandrovich, that the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people is the blocking of the monthly rostrum of the Ukrainian Parliament, which has not been able to make any human resources decisions that you said were a violation. Let's re-establish the logic, then everything will be in place. Just as I believe that the humiliation of the honor of Ukrainian citizens is that more than 300,000 citizens, already dead citizens of Ukraine, voted in favour of valid authority. It's also a terrible thing. But that's not what this is about. It's about the code, it's about the conformity of the Constitution. And so, indeed, the preamble to the Constitution says that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is on behalf of the Ukrainian people. And it defines the Ukrainian people, the citizens of Ukraine of all nationalities. I think this is the exact right definition that was made then, and it's absolutely right now it's done. In one thing I do not agree with my colleague Zarubinski: that he has made these changes to the law that appear to be responsible for the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people, to administrative misconduct. You can't do that. We cannot do so in view of the very nature of administrative responsibility. When it comes to demeaning the dignity of the Ukrainian people, i.e. any public action aimed at defamation -- not merely humiliation, but “screeching” the word used, the right word, by the way -- national, traditional, spiritual-cultural, moral-ethical values, ethnic identity and historical memory of the Ukrainian people, which undermine its authority among other peoples and dishonor its self-esteem, I would like to say that this is what we are being taught about, including who and how we are to celebrate, what anniversary to celebrate. That is why I believe that this bill should be adopted in the first reading. That's the first one. The other one. I believe that, along with officials of local self-government and government officials, there should also be officials of the media, necessarily, but this should be only the second part of this article 337. [[Consider that some newspapers have been published and some newspapers have been distributed today.]] And the first part should be all the content you put in the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u30	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare Alexander Steshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u31	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable author of the bill! It's very difficult, in my opinion, that you've raised the issue today, because you can clearly interpret this bill in terms of constitutional law and what is reflected in the Constitution. Because you realize that any action by any of the officials or any citizen that you're predicting is administrative or criminal, you can treat it differently in different parts of our country, because our state is really made up of the Ukrainian people, which are inhabited by a lot of nationalities. And these nationalities are often localized. And where they're localized, they have their characteristics -- both language and traditional, and religious, and so on. And how do you figure out where it's going to be, so to speak, the operation of that law is going to be distributed: it's going to be perceived in West Ukraine, and it's going to be seen in East and it's going to be different in Crimea, and it's going to be different in Crimea. And so on. I mean, in my opinion, making changes to existing legislation doesn't make it possible to fully understand these norms, how to apply them in practice. So I understand that the question is right, the question deserves to be discussed, but the question must be transferred to the second reading so that experts can draw their conclusions, which directly look after these issues, because I say that we are a good idea, which is really aimed at building these issues democratically and protecting the language and other traditional issues of our population as a whole, that we live in our Ukraine, right? But at the same time, there are questions that deserve to be seen again because of the prism of making this decision. So I call on the people's deputies to support this issue in the first reading, but on the second question, and this is where experts are particularly concerned. We need to take it seriously again and again so that we don't do anything else, so to speak, any more work in the future. Because nationality, citizenship, Ukraine and so on are questions that. in some matters, they will contradict each other, and some will complement themselves. And to share or to give the opportunity to the officials who are involved, to answer or to engage in the responsibility of those or other officials without giving an accurate interpretation of the process, I think it is very, very important to be careful. So I would like to support this bill in the first reading. And to read the second reading seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u32	Alexander Steshenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u33	I'm asking you to give my word to my colleague Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. Tomenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u34	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to another worldview of this bill, which we fully support, and we consider it to be one that continues the line that we started with the national deputy Volodymyr Moisik, because this quotes part of the bill of article 338 “Violence on State Symbols” in the old edition. I would like to point out that our proposals after history with the hammocked attitude of citizens of Ukraine, especially citizens of Russia, to national symbolism, the national symbolism of Ukraine, have been extended. We had a discussion in the session room, and we had a decision to make. And so far, there's a bill that predicts that the public abuse of the national symbols of Ukraine is administrative and criminally responsible for up to 3 years. So this approach that we've proposed, Oleg Zarubinsky continues in a more worldwide approach that I fully support. But I must say that at our disposal we would have to take the lead, as National MP Yuri Karmazin put it, with regard to the vast majority of officials of government and local government, and officials of the media. Because there are some of the biggest problems involved with Ukrainianophobic sentiments, or, for example, examples of disrespectful treatment of Ukrainians. The point is that the educational work does not yield positive results, I witnessed not one discussion with the leaders of the Party of Regions, particularly at the time with Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic, when I drew attention to the systematic Ham speeches of the Secretary of the Donetsk City Council. Then, during the presidential election campaign, during so - called direct calves, he represented Donecina in association with Presidential candidate Viktor Yanukovic and the Ukrainian people. Is there not enough sense and common sense and respect for this state not to make this man who, as Ukrainians, forbids us to believe that there is Ukrainian language, Ukrainian values, Ukrainian state representative to the presidential candidate, and now the President? We have a number of local council members who can allow themselves to enter, for example, to burn a Ukrainian passport with a symbolism and the Attorney General tells me that these are administrative manifestations that are administrative errors. So, of course, such instruction must be extended to members of the local council. When it comes to the founders of the media, I advise you sometimes, for example, to watch the communal television company Kiev, which is financed at the expense of taxpayers, where one chief representing others, as it were, national and continental states, tells us that Orthodox faith is wrong, and our Orthodox rituals are harmful, instead of offering us to act in another way. Such things are unacceptable and must, if in an enlightening way we cannot stop them, we must stop in a legal way. Therefore, I strongly point out the need to adopt such a bill with those warnings that I have said that the officials of the media should be, above all, influenced and responsible for contempt of Ukrainian values, Ukrainian tradition, and the Ukrainian people in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u36	Pavlovsky’s People’s Deputy, the faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko, ” please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko in its session has considered this bill and decided to support it in its first reading, and to take it as a basis. The bill proposes the right concept, criminal and administrative responsibility for actions aimed at demeaning the dignity of the Ukrainian people. And what is most important, including the officials of state authority and local self - government, if such actions are public and are aimed at bribing the national, traditional, spiritual, cultural, moral, and ethnic values of our people, ethnic identity, and historical memory of the Ukrainian people. What I'm saying is that we are witnessing when representatives of one of the largest parties represented here in the hall, especially the officials of the Donetsk City Council publicly at press conferences, claimed that the Ukrainian people are artificial, that Ukrainian is not such that they are just Russian shards and things like that. And I think that at least adoption, I'm not sure that he's going to act on the bill, but at least the adoption of this bill is going to get rid of some hot Ukrainianophobic heads. And at the same time, I would like to point out that any act of power that is directed against the current Constitution, legislation, particularly the illegal formation of the government coalition, as a result of this government, will be perceived in a public opinion, in a social sense as not entirely legitimate power. For what we do this or do not demean the dignity of the Ukrainian people if they do not respect their authority. And any authority, if there's even a little doubt that it's illegally received, it always ends badly. And so once again, I want to emphasize that our bloc supports this bill. At the same time, I would like to point out that the honourable drafter of the bill did not always correctly answer the questions we asked. And I think it's going to have to be taken into account. Thank you for your attention. And the bill is in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u38	Dear colleagues! The bill is closed. One minute. You'll take it from the vote. The closing word of Oleg Zarubinsky. And then Paul the Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u39	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I wanted to thank you for the discussion, the proper discussion that arose in connection with the bill. I want to apologize right away if it was too harsh, obviously it was an emotional expression of some of the questions. But the desire to offend someone certainly wasn't there, believe me. On the other hand, I would like to emphasize that if we vote in the first reading, and the profile committee unanimously spoke for it, that's what the honourable Mr. Sovkovic said, that's very positive, then obviously those proposals that Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko made, and Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin can be taken into account. They're obviously going to improve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u40	Microphone, Paul Silent on the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u41	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! There is no doubt that this bill needs to be supported. But today, looking at the presence on the “5 channel” of the truest, most informative channel in Ukraine, a performance by one of the permanent Ukrainians that has been littering with dirt for 15 years by Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk, and today, on his birthday, I ask, I know the price of journalists. I know who's paying him. But what about those leaders of electronic media, publishing, editorials, newspapers, editions, I don't see that regulatory norm. Here's what I'm paying attention to, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Not enough of these people coming out, they're being made "green corridors." What does that mean, the “5 channel” has already become an anti-Ukrainian channel? I ask the leaders who are present, including on our channel. That's the one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u42	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u43	from our sacred name, from our prophet to whom we go, whom we honor, whom we must and must obey all the covenants that he has given us. And today, on that day his name will be profaned. And so I'm asking you, dear authors, I'm going to go to Zarubinsky and Yuri, and please note the inadmissibility of these retranslations, they must be drawn to the crime scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has been concluded, and the committee is proposing to accept it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Codes of Ukraine for the imposition of responsibility for the humiliation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people. Registration number 2136. Please vote. [[16:49:04]] For 170. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 2, Timoshenko Yulia Block 123, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" - 23, communists - 0, "Litvina Block" - 20, non-fractional - 2. I'm going to re-read it. Dear colleagues, if we cannot protect ourselves and the citizens of Ukraine to make the right decision, who will count and talk with us at all. I'm voting for re-reading the draft law, registration number 2136. [[16:49:59]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. By factions, please, the Party of the Regions 3 - Block of July Timoshenko - 138, Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense - 29, Communists - 0, Block of Lithuania - 20, non-fractional - 2. The draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Strengthening Responsibility for Violations of Environmental Protection Law is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Law Protection Activities of Sovkovic Vladimir Leonidovic. And as the author of the bill and from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u45	President-in-Office, Honourable People's Deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, prepared in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Strengthening Responsibility for Violations of Environmental Protection Law. [[Registration number 1461]] The project I have developed at the request of the members of the Supreme Council of Crimea, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and the five areas of Ukraine are mainly tourism. Designed to strengthen administrative responsibility for actions that result from violations of environmental legislation lead to emergency situations and pose a threat to the population, the environment. I would like to draw your attention, despite the fact that the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is drawing its attention in its conclusion to the presence in the Supreme Council of other draft laws on this subject, we have made a decision, to take it as a basis. Indeed, there are such bills, but two of them, namely: 2252 and 2140 have already been removed from the Supreme Council's consideration, 1442 in general, the only law left, which was already signed by the President on February 5, 2010, 1154. And it really makes changes to the individual articles that are provided and presented to me. But in preparing for the second reading, we will make appropriate adjustments and make the necessary changes to the comparative table. The Legislative Security Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis. All the remarks that will come in the process of second reading will be taken into account. Please vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u46	Thank you, Vladimir Leonidovich. As respectable colleagues, we are considering the full procedure. Request to sign up for a question to the reporter. Once again, I would like to remind you that the first deputy chairman of the committee, Vladimir Leonidovich, will report both as author and as representative of the committee. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u47	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Leonidovich! I'll support your bill, I think we need to support it, but I would like us to come in comprehensively at least once to adopt the Code of Administrative Offences in the new edition. It's impossible to keep touching it, it's impossible. And increase sanctions, reduce what we're doing right now, by coming out of justice. It's as impossible as what's happened to the vote right now. The humiliation of the Ukrainian nation has led to a number of factions, so that there will be no punishment. I don't think it's normal that on Odessa TV, let's say it's the expression “holopiteca”. And that's today at the Hohlopiats in the Attorney General's Office, at the hohlopitheks in the Ukrainian Security Service, the IMF, and so on. So I'm going to vote in favour of this law, so I would like to ask everyone who represents the Ukrainian Parliament to uphold the standards for protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u48	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u49	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! Dear colleagues! In fact, the Supreme Council Committee on Legislative Security decided at its last meeting that those bills on amendments to the Administrative Code that have already been passed to the Supreme Council, which have been passed by scientific and expert administration and submitted to the first or second reading, we vote and then we work with the deputies of the Supreme Council and all the bills in the future, which are submitted under the Administrative Code, we will gather once every three months and request the Head of the Supreme Council to gather once every three months together, then we will make changes together in all drafts of opt and make amendments to the Administrative Code every three months, i.e. four times a year. Yuri Anatolyevich, we've already done what you're suggesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u50	Gregory Smythech, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u51	Vladimir Leonidovich, Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 1 2008? That's the first question. And the second question. Do you think that the changes you have proposed to increase the responsibility for violating the requirements of environmental legislation in our country are adequate measures that can be taken to preserve Ukraine's environmental landscape in general, including the Crimean region, including the Carpathian region, you know what happens there, and the consequences that, say so, to the thoughtless or unconsciously cut off forests cause the floods to become more and more disturbing to this part of Ukraine. Do you think you are adequate and sufficient to protect these innovations that you are proposing to accept?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u52	Dear Grigory Yudkomovich, why the bill was in fact in the Supreme Council's apparatus for more than a year and not in the hall, I don't know. Most likely, the previous majority on the Conciliation Council did not agree to the vote. For what reason, I don't know, I can't say. This should be asked of the Head of the Supreme Council. As for the second question, I want to tell you that this is the first, one of a number of bills that are now being passed by our committee. Another bill, including criminal responsibility for changing the landscape, washing the sands, washing the land, cutting the forest you're talking about, he passed our committee too, will be introduced in the first reading. And three more bills from the same subject were passed by our committee. I think they'll be in the hall soon. That's the first one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u53	Mikhail Papiev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u54	Thank you. I'll have the first question for the chairman of the plenary. We decided that the symbols would not be in the meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If this is a decision that applies equally to all factions and groups, I would ask the Supreme Council Secretariat and the Supreme Council apparatus to implement this decision and implement it now. And I have a question for the reporter. Mr. Reporter, you know the amount today amounts to an untaxed minimum of citizens. I'm reading this law, and please tell me, how much will it be in the bracelets, for example, the destruction or damage to the forest as a result of reckless fire management that caused forest fire or the spread of fire in a large area? Here are seven untaxed minimums for officials. Say, please, this fine, which will be in the bracelets, yes, and will it be sufficient to encourage officials to take responsibility for their duties?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u55	In the Administrative Code, as well as in the Criminal Code, separate articles, including the Criminal Code, were deliberately set on fire for causing damage to the state, including in a forest fire. In this bill, it's a slightly different responsibility. And this responsibility tells us that, for example, the fire was temporarily extinguished, then the police found them, or someone else found them. Yeah, maybe. But the thing is, I agree with you that maybe the amount isn't quite great, but under another law, the scientific expertise says that they're much larger and larger, up to a thousand untaxed minimums. There is no middle here, we need to make decisions, or we need to increase or decrease in the second reading. This is for the decision of the members of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u56	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I'm responding to Michael Papiev's remarks. This morning, I called on the initiators to remove the symbolism according to the requirements of the Rules. So they showed that it was from the anniversary of Taras Shevchenk’s birth. And at the end of the session, they will fold this symbol. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And I'd like to take that into account on the next few days of our work. Dear colleagues. Well, please! Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down and work. Now, let's get on with the bill. It's a recording. From factions and then directly from national MPs. Yes, please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Next is Mikhailo Chechetov. Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to Vladimir Sovkovic for seeing that the Codex of Administrative Offences is out of date in part of their responsibility. Indeed, they make it impossible to fight in a normal way against crimes that are designed to protect nature. In particular, it's about violations of sanitary and sanitary and anti-epidemic rules and norms, and it's about corruption and pollution of agricultural and other land. [[this article 52]] There are changes: Instead of 6 to 12 non-taxable minimums are proposed from 10 to 15. And it's just as technical as can be said, but it's political, it's an exercise. So you and I determine whether we're going to keep looking at and spending money just to put together a protocol, or whether it's going to be something and it's going to make it possible to compensate. So where, let's say, land-use violation is foreseen in article 53, does article 57 provide for responsibility for violating protection requirements. There we have increased, practically, double the responsibility. I think this law needs to be passed, it needs to be adopted in the first reading. And if you and I agree with the political assessment that further things that are being violated by the protection requirements are being violated, the requirements are being violated. Protection, water protection rules, and, in fact, all of this goes unpunished, then obviously we have to add more. and strengthen that responsibility. Science-expert management says it's a law that needs to be done. It is advisable to go back to work on the basis that they see that in the Criminal Code, fines range from 30 to thousands of untaxed minimums. It's no big deal if the upper limit of the penalty in the Administrative Code is close to the lower limit in the Criminal Code, but that doesn't mean we won't be able to raise the lower limit in the Criminal Code, which is 30, which is the beginning. We can, if there's a political agreement in the hall, raise it to 50, let's say, non-taxable minimums, and then there'll be an effective fight against violations of the rules of nature. I would like us to adopt this law and to work effectively on these standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u58	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next will be Paul the Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u59	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I fully agree with Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin that the bill is up to date and time-consuming. The bill to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to increase liability for violations of environmental legislation, strengthen administrative responsibility, increase fines for actions that result from violations of environmental legislation, lead to emergencies and pose a threat to the population of the environment. After reviewing the bill, the faction of the Party of Regions considers it necessary to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on first reading as a basis, since the current system of administrative fees for violations of environmental legislation is not adequate for the extent of the damage caused by such offences. And in most cases it does not hinder, but it encourages their deliberate, unpunished conduct. Once again, I propose to the session room to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u60	Paul Silent refers the right to speak to Nicholas Tomenko. Mikola Tomenko. Sergey Tereshuk will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the problems of a bit of a variety. I do not deny the correctness of the idea proposed in this bill. But to my profound belief, the environmental and financial harm of what is happening to Ukrainian nature and ecology today is how systematic, how deep it is and under the guidance of both local, time and central authorities that we would be romantics to think that if we increased fines several times, the situation would improve. First of all, the situation is completely different, for example, in cities, like the city of Kiev, and, let's say, somewhere in a mountainous area or in a rural area. As the head of the commission of inquiry on the situation in Kiev, I have transferred 1,000 trees, 700 trees, to Kiev. If these organizers are simply exposed and fined, they will be cut day and night. Because the price of land and wood in Kiev and, let's say, somewhere in the village in the woodsmuseum are completely indivisible units. So the first problem, of course, is how to divide these problems and these categories. Another problem. I am absolutely convinced that, as in history, we discussed the previous bill, there are average citizens, there are officials. I think we should get out of the fight to increase fines in the Code of Administrative Offences. We need to introduce traditional European standards of responsibility into the Code of Administrative Offences. For example, disqualifying officials from taking office if they allowed such a story, that is, a person if they signed and agreed, so to speak, to cut off the square in Kiev, they can't take office because today they've agreed to a thousand trees, tomorrow, 500 trees, where are the shooters? These officials should be released and have no right at all to hold public office. Let's say it's just about citizens. It may also be necessary to apply such enlightening things as public works, in order for a person to be there by accident, somewhere in the woodsmuseum, he entered a cutting bush or a tree, and so on, perhaps in such a way that public work is involved in order not to allow anything else to happen. So I would think that we should essentially distribute two categories, the first category, say cities and rural areas, and the category of officials, officials and just citizens involved. Because we're in a paradoxical situation, today I've turned to the Attorney General, and today we're celebrating Chevchenka's birthday, and we're not going to make it to the Black Mountain anymore because around the Canow Nature Reserve, our "smokers," I mean, the heroes of Ukraine who got so much from the chicken farm, they've built so much of a non-retirement production that seems to be on the street, and now ten years from now, people are not going to live there, and we're not going to get to Shevchenk, and they're all the heroes of Ukraine. So I am convinced that there is a different measure of responsibility. Such heroes and ordinary citizens, if there are isolated cases. So I would think that the idea is right, but we need to work seriously to bring this hierarchy of responsibilities and responsible persons to a healthy mind, and the actual damage done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u62	Thank you. Sergey Tereshuk, The Lithuanian Block Fracchia.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, dealing with economic problems with the financial crisis is no less important today than the environmental problems that plague Ukraine. Ukrainians today have one of the least life expectancy, it's not just lack of medical care, it's not just unbalanced food, it's the ecological situation that we have in our country today. And virtually all of our spheres of life are plagued by a near ecological catastrophe. Food products today do not meet any requirements, starting with the non-use that is being brought into Ukraine from Europe today, ending what we are producing in Ukraine. Once beautiful foods today cannot be used, the uncontrolled consenting of various additives to animals, the slaughter in unadapted rooms today has led to the consenting of genetically modified products to our animals, which are extremely low in some meat products. Just think, today we have about 10 percent of the milk that meets the requirements or milk that is suitable for use, and we want to have a healthy nation. Today, there is a great deal of talk about whether or not to be a market for the earth. At the same time, we are not talking about our land’s loss of quality, nor are we talking about price. Today, the agronomists have forgotten, what is the book of the history of the fields? The agronomists forgot what we were studying at universities in the universities that Pranisznikov was developing. Today, we uncontrollablely burn the rudder, today we provide protective equipment uncontrollably, thereby losing soil fertility. Look at our forests. We know what natural disasters result from uncontrolled deforestation. Take a look at the water arteries, from Kiev or above Kiev and to Herson Dnipro built, the floods where the birds were separated, the basins and buildings built there today. Ros, singed by Nechuym-Levitsky, the purest river in Ukraine today is an environmental disaster. And today, those cities that are in Russia, and the White Church, the Corsun-Shevchenkovsky in Cherkaščina, don't have normal drinking water today. And this is because the responsibility for the violation is extremely soft. And it's very good that our colleague Sovkovic passed the bill. There are problems with the Criminal Code. But I think this is the first step, the second reading needs to be worked out, and these requirements that are being proposed today, in my opinion, and in the view of my colleagues in the Lithuanian Block, they are extremely soft. If we want to live in a clean country, to eat clean food, legislation should be more demanding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u64	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. The concluding word, does the reporter demand it or not? No, it's not. Dear colleagues! Any comments from the government? None. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Violations of Environmental Protection Legislation. Registration number 1461. Please vote. [[17:13:39]] For 204 The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the bill for re-reading. [[Registration number 1461]] [[17:14:03]] For 199 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, I am introducing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act. [[on the acceptance of candidates]] Registration number 2006. Reporter – National Deputy of Ukraine Šemčuk Viktor Viktorovich, co-rapporteur – Deputy Head of the Committee for Legislative Security and Law Protection Activities Strtovich Vladimir Mikolajovic. Yes, please, where are the reporters? I'm voting on the transfer of the bill, registration number 2006. If the Supreme Council doesn't support it, then I'll put it to a vote on its acceptance as a basis. On the transposition of the draft law, registration number 2006. [[17:15:21]] For-16 The Supreme Council did not support the transposition of the bill. Please sign up for the bill. Adam Martinyuk, please, the Communist faction. John Verni Dubov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, it's a shame that there is no reporter, and no one wants to report from the committee, although today you see the vast majority of the bills that we are discussing are on this committee. That's too bad. This is once again a testimony to the way in which our profile committees sometimes work, which, according to the Constitution, is given a rather important role in preparing draft laws for consideration in the session hall. About the bill. The two feelings, on the one hand, you can support the author, the more the author writes with knowledge of the case, because he, you know, was the prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and on the other hand what a colleague Shemchuk suggests, half the time he was the prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and on the other hand, what a colleague Shemchuk suggests, he's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one. What is it? This is about what is proposed in the Procurator’s Act to stipulate that the appointment of the Attorney General of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea was not in line with the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Aleia, if we write this down in just one law, in the Public Prosecutor's Act, we won't get past this problem. Because I think it's the Law on. The Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea has some advantage over the Prosecution Act. That is: the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea contains this norm, and once again I remind you that the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea accepts the Parliament of Ukraine, that is, we approve with you the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and any changes to the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crime are only adopted by the law of Ukraine, that is, accepted only by the Supreme Council. I mean, after adopting the amendment of the Procurator's Act, we still don't solve this problem, because we need to change the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which says that the appointment of the Attorney-General, as well as some other posts, is under the consent of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. So I would now suggest that the bill be sent to the drafter in order for him to propose a solution to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u66	Thank you. Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the region. George Smythuch will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I am very close to the idea of a bill that was proposed by national deputy Shevčuk Viktorovich. Nor do I understand why for one region of 27 in Ukraine there is such a benefit that the Attorney-General, by appointing a prosecutor below, should reconcile it with the Crimea Parliament. I understand very well why this has happened. I remember that atmosphere of euphoria when the Crimea Constitution was adopted, when the parents of this Constitution, especially the venerable Player Leonid Ivanovich, wanted to join the Crimea even by this Constitution. He wanted all those whom he appointed, and he was the Head of the Supreme Council, all those appointed by the Supreme Council, and all the positions in the State, to be in line with the Supreme Council of Crimea. And so it happened that, contrary to the idea of independence in the work of the prosecutorial authority, so in the Constitution, it was written: The Attorney General at the appointment of the prosecutor of Crimea had to reconcile it with the Supreme Council of Crimea. [[I think it was deliberately done by the parents of the Constitution.]] And once again, I'm really against the Attorney General agreeing with anyone in any region of his lower-ranking district and district attorneys, including usually in the Crimea. But really, the arguments that Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich was talking about, you don't give them anywhere, the Crimea Constitution is, the order of its acceptance, the change to it is also there, and unfortunately we can't change that position in this room. After all, the situation that needs to be changed first is the Crimea Constitution, and these should be the initiatives of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Crimea, and then we will confirm these changes here in this room. Unfortunately, this is the way. That is why the bill must be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u68	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u69	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. I am, of course, against the fact that we are looking at laws that are not authored at all, because some of the bills that have been in the Supreme Council for years, and they do not go into the room for any reason, even though they are as relevant as this bill that we are considering. Thus they cannot be considered for any objective reason, including the Conciliation Council. I'm counting on order in this regard. There is a tendency to submit a bill given by one or another subject, and in such a sequence it should be considered if he has passed an appropriate committee. If an appropriate committee has not passed, there is a standard that is 30 days and please to the Supreme Council. Then we don't have questions like what we've been running into lately, there's no Teryochin today, there's no Shevchuk today, and there's bills. During this time, we could look at other projects that MPs work here. That's the first thing I've ever noticed. As for the question of the changes proposed by the author, I support the Oak Verns in the part that the Attorney General's Office, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, is a vertical branch of power, yes, and it should certainly be in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. And the unconformity of the Crimea Constitution in this part to the Constitution of Ukraine, of course, would require the author to make appropriate changes and look at the process in order to make it. If he thinks it's against existing legislation. That's part one. Part two. I agree with the previous speaker, and why should the Autonomous Republic of Crimea have such preferences or deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea? Then let all district councils have such preferences. So this disagreement needs to be removed. But I stand on the point that such a bill cannot be done, we need to make changes to the Constitution first, then bring it into line with the Constitution of Ukraine, and then introduce this bill or the same bill. So I propose that the author of the legislative initiative get this bill back for further work, but not on the first or more ground. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u70	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u71	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that there is a special chapter in the Constitution of Ukraine called the “Autonomous Republic of Crimea”. He predicts that the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is not only an integral part of Ukraine but also within the limits of the powers established by the Constitution of Ukraine. That's why we're here with you in article 135 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which says that it accepts the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, has a Constitution that is adopted by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You and I have come to this because of a lot of controversy. And that was the fruit, the result of the political consensus, if you want to know, from the beginning of 1994, from May, the end of December 23, 1998, when we adopted here, we approved the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by law. Among the guarantees for the realization of the rights of autonomy was the right to accept the nomination of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Attorney-General of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. This does not mean that any other rights were to be delegated to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. This means that this person has a balanced line of government. And it's no big deal if the Attorney General of Ukraine has to intervene, I don't see. What I see is that today the Attorney General's Office does not respond at all to what is happening there, to what the Prosecutor's Office of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, including the citizen of Melnik, who is a member of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, well, as he is still called, "looker" or whatever. I'm talking about the fact that a crime was committed at the stadium, and a criminal case, and the challenge of a society that's being challenged because it's not being held accountable, but it's not at all the authority of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the procurator of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. For this reason, I believe that the consent institution, which dates back to December 23, 98, is a political act, an act of political consensus, a political compromise and the result of a political dialogue between the central authorities of Ukraine and their autonomy. And in this case, I don't think it's necessary to change this order, absolutely not necessary. That is why I think that this law should be rejected and, instead, that the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine should be strictly required to comply with the rules of the Constitution and the laws of these Ukrainian citizens, including those living in Autonomous territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to reject the bill. I'm betting on voting for the first proposal by the Committee on Amendments based on the draft Law, registration number 2006, to amend the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act. [[on the acceptance of candidates]] [[17:27:34]] For 1 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I don't think it's necessary to put it first, because there's no support. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies, the draft Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the U.S. Department of Internal Affairs, registered number 2050, is being reviewed. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. Please sign up for the bill. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u73	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national MPs, this bill is another witness, it's so tiny, it's another witness to the lack of order with which we approach the law-making work. The amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Amendment to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Criminal Statute on Internal Affairs are complemented by the words: “and also by veterans of internal affairs that have been released into reserve or retired according to Ukrainian legislation”. I will tell you that after we have been rewarded with the fire weapons of the head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Mr. Stryzak, it is not a matter of fear to give firearms to veterans of the internal affairs that have been released into reserve, or to resign in accordance with Ukraine’s legislation. What's more, I think this legislative initiative, even though it's small, because it has to work seriously under this law, I mean the disciplinary statute of internal affairs, it needs to be supported by what? Because people who fought bandits all the time put up racketeers, planted rapists, put up killers and retired, they retired without weapons, they were not protected at all! You understand, because it is obvious that everyone under the line, Adam Ivanovich, will not be rewarded, obviously, because it is the mark of the Minister of Internal Affairs and obviously that the Minister of Internal Affairs should only give for special, written here for what. For conscientious service and special merit in the fight against crime. If there are such special merit, it can be rewarded for them, and in principle it is practiced in many countries of the world, and nothing here is absolutely inconceivable I see, on the contrary I have not seen any country of the world to which the heads of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine would give to an entirely civilian person before the end of the cadence by the President of Ukraine would grant such a right. And I don't see them publishing that decree. Unfortunately, it is, it happened in our country, obviously in order for the encouragement of judges in general to be, you know, forbidden, not to be realized. Because to encourage a judge means to bribe him. So I'm pretty sure we have opposition here, and the coalition all agree that we can't do that. As for the veterans of the Internal Affairs Department who are released or retired according to the law, they should be thanked, including if they are given such a mark, it is also a thank - you for their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u74	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions, prepare Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u75	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we must cease to marvel at the prizes. We have devalued the value of public awards, even the name Hero of Ukraine. Yes, to the Soviet Union, as a boy, if I saw a hero star on the breast of a gray-haired veteran, I knew what was behind it. If I saw a hero star on a young boy's chest, I knew it was also a feat in the name of a family in Afghanistan, or it could have saved people, or a military pilot or other. Now that we've gone through the stream of rewards and when the doubtful personalities, I don't want to characterize, hide behind both the stars of the hero, and the orders, and the first rank, we're surprised that maybe for five years at all we have to draw the line, not reward people not to laugh. What's going on with the guns? You remember when the M.V.D. was handing out guns to the right and to the left, they were handing out guns after the first round, after the second gun was handed out, and soon the machine guns will be handing out guns. Cross the line and don't be surprised. Let's cool down, let's start working, and let's start giving real money to the people who deserve it. Therefore, the request, and the Party of the Regions, proposes that this law should be rejected and marked by this madness with reward and what is being done in the State. We made a mockery of the rewards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u76	Pavlova National Dept., faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Gig will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u77	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chief! In fact, the bill 2050 proposes that the Minister of Internal Affairs be given the right to award the award by the Mark “The Name Firearms” not only to the primary warehouse, but, in general, to the veterans of the internal affairs bodies who have been released to the reserve. Here, much has already been said about the rewards of which the previous President, in fact, has been infuriated with state awards, beginning with the title "Hero of Ukraine" and ending with "The Firearms of Name". This can be achieved by providing technical staff, interior cleaning staff, with appropriate “name weapons” for good work and so on. I no longer say that today on the site of “Ukrainian Truth” published an article on Victor Yushchenk's latest secret decrees on reward orders, where he awarded high rewards to no one who was not known, incomprehensible for what. And the most outstanding figure is the secret decree, which is the award of the "Hero of Ukraine" by Gregory Omelchenka, probably for the organization of the paedophile scandal, for the discreditation of the "Bloke of Yulia Timoshenko". Indeed, from the perspective of the previous President, this person is probably worthy of such a high title as "The Hero of Ukraine". So I think we need to look at this award-winning issue in general, or maybe we should take this matter into the hands of the Supreme Council and adopt a corresponding new law on Ukraine's awards. Because, in fact, we have burned public rewards in previous practice that do not call for respect for the average citizen. I think we need to change the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u78	Jiga Mikola Vasilovich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u79	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The award of firearms is a high state reward, it is compared to the order of the state, and this right should be exclusive to the President. It is necessary to prohibit the award of firearms to all ministers: internal affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Defence Minister, the State Security Service, and so forth. The fact is, in practice, we see that several cases were on my mind when people did not know how to handle these weapons, they either killed someone, or they themselves suffered from mistreatment of firearms. So that's the President's sole prerogative, that's what happened before, and then something like that happened, that everybody took the right to reward with firearms anyone who ever thought about it. You remember Lucenko, 150 barrels he gave to people on their birthdays, on some holiday events or other, they got guns like that, they don't even know what to do with it, like they're brothers. I think that the militarization of officials should be over and we should put a dot. I would like only the President of the State to have the exclusive right to reward with firearms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole. I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Law amending article 9 of the U.S. Department of Internal Affairs. [[17:38:11]] For two. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing before the review the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to increase liability for violations of flight safety rules. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on the Legislative Protection of Sweden's Law Enforcement Activities, Viktor Dmitrovich. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, well, this is a very necessary bill. So maybe we can move it? [[B in m in s a l in]] That is why I am voting on the postponement of the draft Law (registration number 2145). Please vote. It's about putting an end to the bill. Let's move it, dear fellows. [[17:39:19]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Well, please sign up for the bill. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Yes, please put your name on the board. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions, prepare Yuri Karmazin. Mikhail Vasilovich, please. Dear colleagues, this is a serious document. So come on, please, let's go with responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u82	By purpose. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to increase the fines imposed on citizens for offences committed on transport and to ensure the safety of flights of conduct and to ensure the safety of cargo on aircraft. The strictness of the seizure is not a decisive factor in reducing the number of offences, and the State’s policy in the area of responsibility for administrative offences cannot be reduced by an increase in penalties in the form of a fine. The Party of the Regions is proposing to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u83	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". The next one will be Paul the Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u84	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! This bill 2145, in fact, in the technique of its implementation, is absolutely similar to that of the bill that we were considering by the national deputy Sevkovic, only concerning the protection of nature, environmental protection, land, water. And I'm really sorry we failed him. And this bill is about increasing responsibility for violations of flight safety rules. Of course, I agree with my colleague Chechtov's opinion that not only is it to say that the increase in the size of the charges is always justified or justified, but the need to adopt this bill is justified. But if you look at the purpose of adopting the bill, it is proposed to amend the Code on Administrative Violations by increasing the fines imposed on citizens who commit offences on transport, and these offences relate specifically to ensuring the safety of flights, rules of conduct and the safety of cargo on board an aircraft. Clearly, flights and safety must be taken extremely seriously. And that amount of fines that was, that's, let me remind you, 3 to 5 is offered to replace 20 to 40. The words “from 4 to 7” are “from 30 to 50”. And so to a number of articles for these offences. Now the fine is 51 bracelets. When it comes to flight safety, people's lives are ridiculous fines, they're ridiculous, they need to be reviewed. That's why. I know this bill is going to fail, but ideologies are right here. And we need to realize that we've taken administrative responsibility completely to empty propaganda, it's totally not working today, it doesn't have what it means in society today: to prevent wrongdoing. As a fuse, it doesn't work anymore. Because of this, I understand that a colleague of Sweden who passed a bill, somehow absent here today, in this room, and in the hall not so many deputies, but a newly formed coalition is completely ineffective at the vote that she is still demonstrating, but I will still vote in favour of adopting this bill, for the principle that we need to change our approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u85	Paul Mokchan, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u86	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, it is necessary to adopt early laws that will work, not this year, but perhaps for the following years. What is it? Today, when we have only single cases, and perhaps dozens of owners of those light aircraft that can use any field today of any course, and who, most of all, is in violation of these flight safety rules. Actually, we're talking about what this is about in the future. Today, they do not pose such a threat. But tomorrow, when the number of rich people is increased, when these aircraft are taken over, when they use them, and can threaten life beyond themselves, the venerable Yuri Anatoliovich, it's not about their own lives, it's about the lives of the citizens, because they fall on their heads suddenly, in unexpected places. That's how they like it, yeah, nice field, they're doing damage, they're doing a lot of damage. And so, of course, we would have to support this bill at least in this reading, but more harsh measures, because what it says today is ridiculous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u87	Taras Blackwall, non-faction, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u88	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like all of us to learn to respect and respect Parliament. Yes, fines are required under this law, but what is proposed does not solve the problem in the same way. Those who break those rules can pay and not 10 times the fine or how much there is, but a hundred times the raise, and it'll just stop. But I don't want to pay any attention to that, but the other thing is, we're already considering what law we're considering today without a reporter and a co-conspirator. An elemental disregard for Parliament, as it were for me. And I think we should do it alone. Two steps. The first is the means by which the Supreme Council has available to publish information that the committees, whose coreporters, coreporters, have been torn down or the issues are under consideration. First. And secondly, committees that are guilty of failing to provide a reporter and a co-rapporteur for at least two plenary weeks for each such failure to rule out completely, perhaps in the future, this to exclude the consideration of the issues raised by these committees. Today we have two finers: a committee on law enforcement and a Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. If the committees aren't ready to take care of their own discipline on the committees, let's make a rule over the next two plenary weeks: no bill from these two committees goes into the session hall. Because it has to be stopped in some way, and at least it's demonstrated. We must force respect for the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole. The main scientific and expert office is of the opposite opinion and recommends that the bill be returned to work. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on strengthening the responsibility for violations of flight safety rules]] Registration number 2145. [[17:48:30.]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. I'm putting to the vote the second sentence, referring to re-reading the draft law, registration number 2145. [[17:48:58]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, according to the proposal made by Taras Czarnovil. I propose that every month I publish in the newspaper “The Voice of Ukraine” how many days the national deputy worked on the results of the registration at the desks, not at those tables with the eights that come from the committees. Because we've been talking to you about disrespecting the Ukrainian people, and we've been fighting for someone who's gonna tell a better story about each other than contempt for the Ukrainian people at the expense of the state, and we're fighting for the people, and it turns out that we're all fighting against the people. Let's calm down and all of us go into the session room, eight days a month can sit the national MPs for a normal, decent salary. So please, I'm asking the secretariat to prepare the relevant data and we're going to publish it. A draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on responsibility for sexual relations with a person who has not reached the age of 16]] The rapporteur is National Deputys Shevčuk Viktor Viktorovich, co-rapporteur of the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Protection. Please, Vladimir Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u90	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Unfortunately, there is not. The purpose of the adoption of the Ukrainian Law is to specify the standard of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on responsibility for sexual relations with a person who has not reached sexual maturity. In order to reduce the level of human influence and to determine whether or not guilty of a crime is directly involved in the establishment of sexual maturity. What is happening today? In each case, there is separate expertise in criminal matters today. The bill foresees changes, namely, the word “which has not reached sexual maturity” is proposed to be replaced by the words “which has not reached 16 years of age”. I want to tell you that in various countries of the world, the age line is quite a big difference, for example, minors are considered to be up to 12 years old in Spain, Holland, Turkey by the age of 21, 17 years of age in Texas, 14 years old in Germany, Estonia, Russian Federation, Moldova, countries of SND, San Marino, Bulgaria, 16 years of age in Kyrgyzstan, Belgium, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan. France, Thailand, and Poland for 15 years The Ukrainian Family Code establishes the right of a person to marry at the age of 14. The author of the bill sets this limit — 16 years. The committee decided to vote on the bill as a basis, despite the fact that the votes were divided on the committee. But most of the committee voted as a basis for voting. Why were the voices divided? Because the law clearly states that a person can marry or marry after 14 years. We're here to give a criminal interpretation of 16 years -- a minor. And then we get into a fight between these two articles. I'm speaking from the committee, not from the author of the bill. The committee accepted the majority of the votes as a basis. The essence of the differences and the essence of the conflict between the Family Code and the Criminal Code, I have told you, your decision to pass judgment on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u91	Thank you, if you have any questions, please write down your esteemed colleagues and continue your evening session for 15 minutes to complete your consideration of the matter. There are questions, please sign in if there is one. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u92	Today's an interesting day we start with prostitution, we end up 16 years old. Persons who have reached sexual maturity I mean, it's certainly absurd when prosecutor Shemchuk determines that a child, or a 16-year-old, is one who has not reached sexual maturity, it's a matter of general physiology, medicine, acceleration, not a prosecutor's decision. So it's an absurd bill that just has to be rejected as one that doesn't have any argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u93	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u94	Thank you. Vladimir Leonidovich, of course, does not need to be supported by the bill, in my opinion, because it has flaws and this bill cannot resolve this social problem that is in our society. You probably know more than anyone the problems that concern our parents today, mothers who have children, and what the situation as a whole regarding sex is so to say puberty, or adulthood under which legislation and nature, and the family arrangement of our family, are permitted, or are willing to allow sexual relations. At the same time, you can't tell what statistics say about things that have become a national horror and what needs to be done in general to solve this issue. It is not simply a ban, or a responsibility to ask, but a solution. How to promote society in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u95	The question on which. You can answer your question, well, at least at the round table and then three hours should be held. In terms of statistics, I can tell you that more than 600 criminal cases have been brought before the court in 2009 for rape or perversion of minors. Some 100 of them have been sentenced. According to a study conducted by UNESCO, which is present in juveniles and protects minors in Ukraine, some 10,000 crimes are committed in a year. There are about a thousand criminal cases. Thus every tenth, every ninth crime is forgiven. And to put order in the matter, it is clear that setting the age of 14 or 16 is not enough. You have to make a set of measurements. And the Supreme Council in its own time, you remember when there was a scandal with pedophiles.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u96	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u97	The Supreme Council then adopted a decree binding upon all the authorities of the State, beginning with the Cabinet of Ministers, completing the Human Rights Commissioner, to report monthly on the work that they should do and write work plans, including the Ministry of Family and Youth and a number of other ministries. To this day there has been no report. The Ministry didn't read it. Law enforcement structures too. I think it's a matter of the Supreme Council and the Presidency of the Supreme Council when they set up a similar report and a new government to do this work.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u98	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukrainian People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u99	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Leonidovich! You just said, what about the statistics on rape, 600 cases, and so on. We're not talking about rape. We are talking in article 155 about sexual relations, common sexual relations with a loved one. So there's a little bit different statistics here in just 24, 25 a year, so this approximate figure is responsible for these kinds of crimes. But your committee, when you've made a decision fundamentally, how to build a city along or across, whether to do it or not, because there's a question or to replace a purely physiological and biological concept that we're talking about with an age-old concept, that's a completely different concept. Did you split up or did you support that we should move away from the ideology that the legislators adopted in their time and move on to another ideology? If so, what reasons did you have, what reasons did you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u100	The committee did not unanimously decide to pass this bill and to support it in the Supreme Council, because all the issues you raised were actually raised on the committee. And the answer to Smythe Gregory's question was not according to the bill, he asked about abuse of minors, abuse. And in this case, it's not an abuse, it's a different definition of sexual crime in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, questions, answers, the time is up. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for the discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Sergei Mishchenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, it is clear that by changing this law we are interfering with the biological, physiological nature of man. We cannot define as parliamentarians when sexual maturity occurs in a teenager. Clearly, such crimes are being committed, and medical forensics are being assigned. And the question that the investigator asks experts is whether she has reached sexual maturity at the time of sexual intercourse is whether or not she has reached a female or male point of view. This is based on this conclusion of forensics and will decide whether to draw 155 articles of the Criminal Code or not to attract another article or not. So we don't have the right to intervene in biological and physiological processes, it's going to be decided by forensics and experts on that. Because we can even get to the point where we actually have the Family Code, which provides that we can have marriages from the age of 14. And then what? Then if a person is 14 or 15 years old, he has a marriage, he has a partner, then we'll plant him for being married by the age of 16. That's why we can make such things absurd. So I'm just calling for us to ask that question again. left as it is, and yet whether there's a crime or not, they're going to decide whether there's a crime, whether there's a case, whether there's a case, whether there's a case or not, whether there's a case or not, whether there's a case or not, whether there's a case or not, they're going to decide whether there's a case, whether there's a case or not, whether there's a case or not, whether there's a case or not, whether there's a case or Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u103	Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u104	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, right now, Sergey Mishchenko said on the point that when we destroy consumers through the Stone of the Criminal Code, let's think about what was first and what was the connection to other legislation. And I'm going to tell you that it was suggested that this is a completely biological concept -- the sexual maturity of a person in our responsibilities, as provided for in article 155 of the Criminal Code. And I remind you that the Ukrainian Family Code allows for the creation of a family by a person who has reached the age of marriage, 17 for a woman and 18 for a man. And including the person who gave birth to the child regardless of age. I'll remind you that there are even 12-year-old mothers, and unfortunately, we had that in Ukraine. And on the basis of a statement made by a person who has reached the age of 14, the court may grant her the right to marry if it is established that it is in her best interests. And this is also the norm of the Family Code. So nice things, if we're going to introduce into any code, including in a sensitive like the Criminal Code, we have to rely on some scientific research, statistics on doing the right thing, that some of these crimes make it very difficult for us to live. I'd like to tell you that it's not in vain that we asked the honourable reporter from the committee of Vladimir Leonidovich what statistics are. And he said that this data is extremely meager. That is, according to the Supreme Court, there were 24 cases last year, in the years that passed, and so on -- 25, 26, up to 30 cases a year. It's not like that yet, it's statistics that suggest that we need to change the way now, how to evaluate the sexual maturity of a person, whether by age or biological or physiological terms, as the people's deputies now said. So I am absolutely convinced that we do not have to confuse the two concepts that have now existed in society, this is the responsibility of those who depraved minors and what it was about, what was in "Artec," I hope that we will hear, what is there really, including the conclusion of the Follow-up Commissions, the Attorney-General's Office and so on. The violence has been done in the electoral battalions, and the outcome is zero. And there is no relation to this aspect of the crime of article 155 of sexual relations with a person who has not reached sexual maturity that has no need to make any changes. So I urge you not to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-03-09-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. At the same time, the Chief Research Administration recommends rejecting the bill. I'm voting on the first proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code on responsibility for sexual relations with a person who has not reached the age of 16. [[Registration number 2153]] To be accepted as a basis. [[18:06:04]] For-30 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed, tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue to work in plenary mode for 10 hours.
