ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:26]] There were 394 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on December 14th. 23 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 2 laws and 3 decrees were passed, 2 bills were adopted on the basis of which 1 bill was returned to the committee for further work, 3 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law was passed in general, taking into account President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law was rejected. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Wednesday for the performances of the National Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Please. Alexander Steshenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u2	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! People expect us to make concrete changes, to move from manic nationalism to specific things in the real economy sector. And not so much wait for the Tax, Labour, Housing Code as concrete steps towards economic recovery. Work, wages and a decent pension is what people in our country need today. Unfortunately, we do not see decisive steps in supporting the strategic sectors of Ukraine. And without that sovereignty, national security does not exist, nor will the welfare of the people. I'll take my own Herson. The refinery doesn't work. The owner is outside Ukraine. HBK. The masters, thanks to the Holding Foundation, brought metal to the pen, and brought machines to Pakistan that worked successfully there. The sad giant of the country’s machine building, the Herson Combains, has several hundred employees, half of whom are guards who protect the factory from the workers, thanks to the owner. The people of the second year stand near the district government, but the courts remain silent. Why is the owner’s crime more expensive than that of humans? Until the collapse of the Soviet Union, we have a strong shipbuilding base: 30 percent of all the shipbuilding production of the Soviet Union, 70 percent of the military, civilian fleet, all produced in Ukraine. Today, the branch is collapsing. Of the 75,000 workers in the field, only 17,000 remained. State support is needed through lending, through government procurement. But we can see that the reform course is virtually not aimed at supporting our domestic economy. We really need to do everything we can to make our industry competitive, but to do so, we need to speak the word of authority. I refer to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers: urgent measures are needed to support the domestic manufacturer. Take a look at high - quality specialists and workers to replace the tours of the factories and factories. Who is responsible for the fourth minute of the Ukrainian exit — highly qualified workers abroad? We need to think about this and do everything we can to make sure that Ukraine does not sit on the IMF's drug shot, but to be economical.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u3	Finish up, please. Alexander Steshenko passes on the right to speak to Mikola Tomenko. Next is Anatoly Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, we have begun to study and make perhaps the most important decision in Parliament. Because the adoption of the budget in all parliaments is considered the most important action and task of parliamentarians. There was a lot of talk last night about pensions, and that's the right thing to do. Yesterday, a lot was said about corruption and financing of Henprocuratorium, BSS, and other structures of power. And that's the right thing to do. But yesterday, unfortunately, little was said that 2011 was the year of 20 years of independence, the year 150, the year of Shevchenk's burial, the year we as a state would have to remember that it was the only place where they were born and lived in Ukraine. Because we have someone in our power looking at the budget as a tool to build their business, someone is looking at a tool to build their party, someone is looking at a tool to build Russian peace. I have a question. What should we do in this country, Ukrainians? The budget for the Ukrainians is going to be accepted? So I think that in discussing the budget, especially for the second reading, we need to look at the ideological, secular and humanitarian component. It's a good thing the new authorities built a business office for Shevchenk in Cane. Thank God I didn't think of building a helipad and a sauna. But I don't think it's a business office that needs to be built. You have to invest money in education, culture, in the healing system. See what is budgeted next year: nearly half the cost of a Ukrainian book, from 33 million to 20 million. If we assume that last year was a crisis year and this crisis year, it would be worse to finance libraries, museums, theaters than it was in crisis years. I have a question: what do we want to promote in this country, what are the values if the authorities suggest that this system of humanitarian education be destroyed? The money for tourism is money to destroy tourism. The money for vocational schools means that we'll have half the schools disappear, because handing them over to local budgets means they won't be financed. So I demand that, between the first and second readings, the authorities return to the side of the Ukrainian state, turn to the Ukrainians, and completely review the humanitarian sphere. It is not the church of one religion that should be financed from the budget, but rather by human health, European education, and Ukrainian culture. And finally, if there are people in power who have no national dignity, such authority is doomed to the state, well, at least to failure. So I dream of a successful and competitive state that we respect ourselves and that the world will respect. So let's make a budget together where the national dignity of this state is, and where the national dignity of the Ukrainians is, because there is no other place for us in this world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u5	Anatoly Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions. Viacheslav Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u6	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! I am sure that all, regardless of political colour, should understand that the main source of the public budget is an efficient and competitive economy. Ukraine has huge export potential and sectors such as missile-space complex, agrarian, machine-building, transport, transit, services are of enormous importance to the development of our economy and up to 50 percent of gross domestic product is produced by Ukrainian exporters. And only pragmatism, a high level of economic patriotism, the unification of diplomatic, political, economic efforts provide a powerful and dignified place for Ukraine in the world’s European markets. At this time the export volume to the SND States is 37 percent of the total. Europe is about 27 percent. Asia – 26 percent. And these aren't just numbers. Hundreds and hundreds of thousands of jobs, loading our businesses, the future of our collectives. So it's very important to fight hard against attempts to politicize the foreign economic policy of the state. Ukraine should be present where its interests exist. SNDs are markets. Europe is investment, high-tech equipment and where we are competitive, we must be present. Regardless of the direction of the West or the East and this cannot be contrasted, Ukraine should form equivalent mutually beneficial conditions for cooperation. Ukraine is inextricably integrated into the European economic system. Therefore, it is very important that Parliament is not on the side of issues such as the preparation of an association membership agreement, the terms of free trade of the state. The Russian Federation completes its accession to the World Trade Organization. Kazakhstan, Belarus have applied and it is very important to support the strategic initiative to create free trading conditions throughout the Eurasian space, and this is in line with the national interests of Ukraine. Today, it is very important for the Cabinet of Ministers, together with the Supreme Council, to support the initiative and purposeful work of the President of Ukraine to create all conditions worthy of Ukraine's integration into the economic and political world system. And this should unite everyone regardless of internal competition and political convergence. We call for joint work for Ukraine's national economic interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u7	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Please, your performance. Mironenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u8	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine! Yesterday, I registered a bill of motion to the President of Ukraine for the resignation of Dmitri Tobacco. This is a very important question, because every day this poor minister is in office is causing enormous damage to education and science, to the state as a whole. This activity, with permission to say to the minister, is aimed at destroying the education and science system, creating ongoing conflicts and disrespect for Ukrainian culture, fueling regional and linguistic enmity between citizens. The tobacco industry stubbornly pursues a policy of silencing the Ukrainian language from education and science, lowering the level of government language for students and students. Reducing the prevalence of Ukrainian in the world. The lack of professionalism of the Tobacco has turned the ordinary introductory campaign into oppression, mistreatment, numerous cases of loss of consciousness on the part of the graduates and their parents this year. The tobacco industry is geared towards levelling the system of independent evaluation of the knowledge of graduates of schools, reviewing the rules of entry into institutions, and introducing draft laws and government regulations that contribute to the degradation of education. The tobacco industry’s provocative initiative to pay services for everything that can be imagined until the library visits and the issuing of help led to a mass protest by students throughout the country. As a result, the government was forced to review the ostentatious positions of the decision. Tobacco initiatives no longer find support in society but also in parliament. During the vote on 3 December 2010, introduced by the Government's draft law amending certain legislative acts to improve the administration of vocational education, this bill, introduced by the Ministry of Education, received no vote of support in Parliament. Individually, the efforts that Tobacco is making now to destroy the pride of Ukrainian education at the Kyevo-Mogilian Academy. The tobacco industry and officials of the Ministry of Education want to take away the statutes that allowed her to be a flag of Ukrainian humanitarian education for 19 years, from the use of Ukrainian English to Western academic programs and the wide self-government of students. This turn of Ukrainianophobic and incompetent tobacco initiative provokes fair condemnation in the community of students. And we're going to be taking the initiative to create a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the activity of the Tobacco, aimed at the destruction of the University of Kiev-Magilian by means of completely specific incompetent and, I would say, criminal acts. We demand the immediate resignation of the poor Minister of Education, Dmitri Tobacco. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u9	Irina Gorin is entitled to a performance given to her by a colleague named Mironenko. Catherine Vaschuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u10	In Ukraine, the first steps to reform the country began, and the wall of criticism immediately fell. When criticizing, the question of whether you have the moral right to do so is the first, and the second, empty criticism is absolutely useless, and constructive suggestions must be offered. The authorities are critical of everything, and most of them are our diverse, widespread opposition. The question is: why are you, so smart and capable, in 2005 or 2008, when you had the full capacity and power to at least propose a reform plan or at least take some first steps! They didn't do it! The answer is obvious: reform is not just to break the old, it is to propose a new mechanism of work in the industry, in the economic sector, and it is not a quick, incomprehensible decision-making, it is the ability to correct mistakes, to act constructively. And it's not about speed and speed, it's about continuity of effort. Unfortunately, though, our opposition does not have these qualities, even as a power, it was able to do only two things: break and break. During the 20 years of the independent Ukraine, only President Janukovic had not just begun to speak but had begun to make these reforms, together with the Committee on Economic Reforms. Surely there are mistakes, they were and they will be. But the ability to correct them, the ability to make the right decisions, the Tax Code has shown a great deal of what to do, what to do, what not to do, what to do. To date, all public mechanisms have been put in place to monitor and implement reforms. By the end of the year, all sectoral reform plans will be adjusted to budget by the end of the year, in all directions. And that's really democracy. The President has included opposition representatives in the Committee on Economic Reform to work, control and make changes — that is democracy. The stormy debate in Parliament is democracy. People who protest in different ways are democracy. Plato said: “Freedom that does not include freedom of error is worth nothing.” And more. You cannot trust those who know the truth, you must trust those who seek it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u11	Catherine Vaschuk faction of the People's Party. Irina Heratchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u12	Catherine Vasuk, faction of the People's Party, Volin. Dear colleagues! From this rostrum today, I want to ask you a few questions, one of them I've already raised. There are various high and honorable rewards in our country, but perhaps the most important of them in peacetime is the mother's prize, the mother's feat of "Mother Hero." And it's very good that the President of Ukraine assigned thousands of mothers this high title. But not all of this is cloudless. I want to speak to the secretariat today, and to the President's Administration, and especially to the Minister of Education, Family, Youth and Sports, and due to delays in processing documents. For months, documents have been laid down to assign these names, walk in the corridors of power, and mothers may not wait. One day Mary Romanovna’s address from the village of Merva Horochovsky district, in Volina, which has been in 1931 and has been waiting for this title for a month. Children say: “Mom is worried that she may not live, because she worked hard as a nurse, worked until she retired.” And there are a lot of such examples. There are 4,000, 261 heroin moms on Volina today. The documents submitted this year are 6 000 486 and only a thousand 665 have been allocated. They say, “There is not enough money, there is something else for badges.” My one-parties, as I believe, are priceless, and immorally, worthy of any economy in the state. And one more thing. Today I want to speak to the minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I know a lot of people in pursuits of different titles and ranks, and I want to say thank you so much for their work, for their feat. But what happened to the Matter last week is completely unworthy and does not go in any way. My landlady in Volina buried her brother, an invalid with no legs, who was killed to death by the militia. Anyone who saw this program on television could not help but worry about how people in pursuit could.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u14	They're called to protect their citizens. Minister, if you can only do one thing, eliminate this negative phenomenon from the life of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. You will enter the new history as the best minister of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u15	Thank you. Irina Heratschenko, faction of our Ukraine People's Self-Defense. Vladimir Oilynik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I enjoy speaking after Catherine Timothy, for I will also talk about human rights in Ukraine. On December 12th of this year, the special division “Berkut”, its fighters, was again detained by the famous Ukrainian journalist Mustafa Nayem with the wording of the Aryan mattress, “like the face of Caucasian nationality”. Then the phrase “for the person of Caucasian nationality” was repeated by the official dictionary of the Kiev militia. I want to say that it really doesn't even need to be a lawyer to understand that these phrases and these actions are signs of xenophobia. This is a direct violation of article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 161 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which guarantees all Ukrainian citizens, regardless of their religious beliefs or their nationality, equal rights. I want to say that today, in the Supreme Council, we have no right to stand outside of such actions and we need to give a public assessment of the actions of the militia and the officials who allow themselves to speak with the Aryan mattress. In particular, we want to talk about our virtuous militia. Unlike the previous speaker, I do not believe that this Mogilov’s office today can observe human rights. Because in the days of Minister Mogilov, police departments kill students, journalists are detained daily with the BSS. And yesterday, the special unit "Berkut" detained another journalist -- a well-known Ukrainian journalist, Vitali Sich, the editor-in-chief of Correspondent magazine, and failed to explain his actions. I want to say that the police today are beating national MPs and their assistants. And they allow themselves to be xenophobic. Perhaps because the Minister of the Interior has a totally weak idea of what human rights are. Last week, the Justice Committee in the Supreme Council held committee hearings where dozens of representatives of public organizations gathered. Thus, the minister did not appear there. And I want to tell you, my fellow Members, that this year, 34,000 letters came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in which citizens complain of their rights not being respected. And that's why I think there's a huge danger in Ukraine today of building a police state, a state in which a national issue can arise again. We see it unfolding dangerously today in Moscow. That's why I'm asking the Speaker of the Supreme Council to formally condemn any manifestations of xenophobia, words or actions that can be interpreted as intolerance and oblige officials to abide by the Constitution and the laws. Ask the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs to investigate the incident and punish the perpetrators of racist statements. And finally, at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior for Human Rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u17	Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u18	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Allow me, on behalf of all of you, to welcome the judges today with their professional festival. They had good health and had good decisions to make. And they remembered the last lines of prayer to the judge: “O Lord! Judge me as God, for I judged as a man." Now I want to move on to another topic. This is in the context of national interest in comparison with one previous government and today’s. How they work. If you remember, in 2009, in the midst of the crisis of Julia Timoshenko in one order, she went to Moscow in a one - way manner. And their initiative, our Ukrainian prime minister's initiative, ended the deal. The international agreement is closed with respect to gas. And instead of 95 dollars, we got a gift -- today it's $350. Yulja Timoshenko appreciated these actions as a victory for the Ukrainian people and the best price in Europe. I would like to ask: Why are they not proud of this price today and telling us how to accomplish it? They're silent because I think it was betrayal of national interests. How should the Prime Minister act in such cases? When he sees that there is a crisis – at least to agree on the same price, or to think about the decline, because it strikes his own producer, reduces the competitive capacity of the economy and beats the population. If, in five years, the previous authority had diminished. increased the price of gas from $50 to $350, so seven times, of course, is a hit at both prices and tariffs, and everything else. But today, Mikola Janovich Azarov, everywhere, is asking the question: let's go back to this deal again, in terms of lower gas prices, this is Ukrainian position, this is national interest. Why is it national? Our national patriots don't support this position? Why don't they take the side of the question: what if we look at it, it's a blow to the producers again? But it's not because you love Ukraine differently. And you are, of course, reprimanding at times — and why you do not get along with the Russians today — and you have a good relationship. But after such sisters, it is difficult to make a deal with the brothers. And the last. Today, when it comes to underfunding other areas, it is underfunded by your weak policies. Because 87 billion were to be sent to the Ukrainian book, to the Ukrainian language, to the pension, to raise wages, and we're sending them as repayments of the debt that you took and, in fact, Ukraine is said to have been exiled to the Cabal. And that's why we're going to mention it, we're going to fix the situation, but today the people have given you the answer to the elections. As they say in the people: "Mom, stop trading, for there is no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u19	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction. Lilia Grigorovich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u20	So that's how you end up, Mr. Oily. Respectful opposition and less respectful or perhaps disrespectful, sadly, the majority who could be counseled: Don’t grow muscles, but grow brains. Because even your leader, Viktor Janukovic, once said that "we have enough power, and here's the problem with our minds." Here a regional lady who was speaking said that "something very important started in Ukraine is reform". I am convinced that in Ukraine today a colossal, aggressive attack on everything Ukrainian has begun, that for many centuries it has been developed by our Ukrainian people. They don't understand or want to know. A specific example. We adopt the Culture Act yesterday, we've all cooled down, so be it, the word "Ukrainen". I want to remind that their leader sitting here, in the hall, that there was one of your predecessors in Germany in the 1930s, he grabbed a gun in the word "culture." You today, in the word "culture," your hand looks like it and horizontal starts to guide it. You know, you've passed the law completely free, and there's nothing national. We're interesting to the world today, not our humpbacks, we're interesting to the world today, not even our colossal soils that we have, we're interested in our spiritual, national faces that you want to blur, shake, destroy. I think my colleague Tomenko was talking here today about what you did in this budget with the Ukrainian book, and she's actually gone today. You can see what they did to the Ukrainian language: the pitiful copies have been placed literally on the development of the Ukrainian language. Because of that, I'm talking to the Ukrainian intelligence. We have to stand up today. We have to survive this power. There is no other way out. I'm telling you again what to look at, they're throwing three museums out of the Kiev-Pecher laurel today: the Museum of Decorative Ukrainian Art, where the genius works of Jekaterina Bilokur. They're throwing away the cinema and theatre museum today, throwing other museums out on the street. For when we discussed these questions on the committee: Where are you moving them? It turns out, no, they're not moving them out, they're just throwing them out to create what was done today with the historic Kiev Museum, whose exhibits are in the boxes. And we're going to be showing foreigners in 2012, and the story of Kiev is in this box. Because of this, Ukrainian intelligence, we have to endure. They will definitely go. They'll go as notorious as the SDPU, which kept Ukraine in its fist, and then the phones were turned off for default the other day. Exactly the same way you will walk away, and Ukraine will survive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u21	Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u22	Lilia Griwicz, "Our Ukraine". Dear Ukrainian Parliament, my last speech today, and therefore, as a representative of the opposition, I would like to call everyone to realism and constructiveism, as opposed to the manic attacks that one of the previous speakers spoke of. Dear friends, in a spirit of realism and constructiveism, I agree with Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk today, and I demand that the same actions be taken in relation to the satraps in the heathens who tortured the invalid on the Sumstynia, as we have done in concert against the Losinski thugs who are under trial today. I'm looking forward to this, the same Ukrainian society. In a spirit of constructiveism and realism, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the last two weeks, each of us, or most of us, or in opposition, must carry out his primary constitutional duty and give the Ukrainian people a budget that would not destroy it. I'm not going to talk about the deadlines being broken. Since mid - September, the budget has only been introduced now. So I will try to highlight those painful points that are vital at such a brilliant and ecclesiastical pace. First. Children. In a spirit of constructiveism and realism, I say that the proposal I'm about to make was made by the two people's deputies who were in opposition last year and who were heavily engaged in social problems. So it's a good thing that payments are increasing for children, but I insist on spending 12 million 250,000 just to make sure that children don't pay 130 bracelets per pack of diapers from zero to one, but a living minimum of 816 bracelets. It's not immoral not to support this proposal in the budget, because there are funds. There is an administrative shortcut, but there is an increase in expenditure on the administration. This is the first constructive and real offer that I've borrowed from colleagues who were in most of the world today and who were in opposition yesterday. The second is a constructive and real offer. Ukrainian village. Last year's Prime Minister, Timoshenko, "slapped" on the eve of New Year's Mailmen and Librarians, while club workers or managers remained abroad. A total of 800 million grubles to keep the village from going out. And finally, 5 billion dollars for Ukrainian medicine, because 40 percent of Minfin's tariff rate has been reduced for first grade employees, compared to the minimum wage. These three points of pain in the spirit of constructiveism and realism call for the support of today's power, because these are your proposals you made last year. I'm hoping for common sense, not the manic experiences that we've been talking about. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u23	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. I ask the secretariat for a tradition of making such demands, suggestions, recommendations, and queries that have been made in the speeches of the national MPs, to prepare appropriate assignments. Dear National Deputies! Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with the minutes of the meeting of the BUT-Batychina MP from 15 December 2010, and in accordance with article 60, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the exclusion of the Ukrainian national deputy Shamanov Valerija Viktorovic from the membership of the BUT-Batkaščina. Dear colleagues, let us turn to Wednesday’s December 15 issues. The first question is ratification. This is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine's Accession to the Treaty on the Establishment of the Energy Community. [[Registration number 0198]] Why don't we take a brief look at this, considering that we have a large list of issues? I'm putting this motion to the vote, please vote. [[10:36:39]] For the 220. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy Makuh Volodymyr Aleksijovich. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Taras Cnerovil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act ratifying the Protocol on Ukraine's accession to the Treaty establishing the Energy Community. It should be noted that during 2010, Ukraine achieved significant results on the road to the integration of the country’s energy market and the European Union’s united market. This resulted in the signing of the Protocol on Ukraine’s Accession to the Treaty establishing the Energy Community on 24 September of this year in Skopje. [[Republic of Macedonia]] It should be noted that the Energy Community is a community created by the European Union and countries, neighbouring countries, first and foremost, by the countries of South-Eastern Europe. The main objective of the Energy Community is to organise cooperation between the parties to the Treaty with a view to establishing legal and economic principles for the creation of a single integrated natural gas and electricity market, and at a later stage it is envisaged that this market will include other energy goods and services. This is being done through the introduction of reliable regulatory market mechanisms that will help attract investment, create a single energy space, protect the environment, and develop competition in key electricity and gas markets. According to the protocol on Ukraine's accession to the Energy Community Treaty, our country is to bring domestic energy legislation into line with the energy legislation of the European Union in order to progressively implement EU directives and regulations in the energy and gas sectors, as well as environmental protection and energy conservation. The introduction of European legislation will promote the access of Ukrainian energy companies to relevant markets in Europe, create market conditions in the energy sector of the economy, which will contribute to the involvement of investment to increase opportunities and improve existing ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u26	Thank you. Ukraine's participation will greatly increase the attractiveness of our domestic energy companies, so I would like to support the Act on the Ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine's Accession to the Energy Community Treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u27	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Taras Viacheslavovich, First Deputy Head of the Committee, please make the decision of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered at its meeting the draft tabled by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine's accession to the Treaty establishing the Energy Community and unanimously recommended its adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The European Energy Community Agreement was signed in October 2005 in Athens and took effect on July 1, 2006. It was created for, with the aim of disseminating the experience of the EU's internal energy market to the countries of South-Eastern Europe and promoting investment in the energy sector of the countries participating in the agreement. Today, the treaty is also moving to the eastern territories of Europe and the Council of Ministers of Europe, and the European Union approved the introduction of Ukraine and Moldova to the organization in December 2009. On September 24, 2010, a Protocol was signed in Skopje just recently. All the committees that considered the matter expressed their approval. There is a positive response from the Rules Committee, a positive response and a request to support our energy committee in the shortest possible time. The main scientific and expert office noted that there are no serious warnings about this ratification. There are only a few technical comments, such as the item that does not specify the amount of the contribution and the corresponding documents. But the Ministry of Finance unheededly accepted the document. And the thing is, the sum itself can only be set in the following year. But the sum is small, by all accounts it can range from 0.1 to 0.7 percent. This could be a few thousand euros. This will be consistent with the following year. The committee is requesting support for this document. In fact, this is the road that the previous one is trying to take, and this is the President with regard to the modernization of our gas transport system, and what it was impossible to do without such an agreement. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? If you have any, please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Vladimir Karpuk and Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u30	The great co-workers of the adoption of the Ratification Act of the Protocol on Ukraine's accession to the Treaty establishing the Energy Community will contribute to the implementation of European energy legislation, which will in turn contribute to the expansion of Ukrainian exporters' access to energy markets in Europe. It will also allow for direct exit to end consumers, avoid intermediate services, create market conditions in the energy sectors of the economy that will contribute to investment to increase opportunities and improve existing energy infrastructure. This will also contribute to the further development and integration of Ukrainian energy networks into the European system. The introduction of European Union standards will have a positive impact on the institutional structure of the energy sector and its optimization, based on market principles, to increase the company’s capitalisation, as well as the ability to attract more investment. Consumers will have access to all European energy market resources at competitive prices and will be guaranteed energy resources at the most acceptable conditions. This will also contribute to Ukraine’s integration into European society. As a result, the Party of Regions will vote in favour of ratifying the protocol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u31	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense"
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u32	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We generally support the ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine's accession to the Treaty establishing the Energy Community. But what I want to point out is, aside from the comments already made, that there is no calculation of the membership that will be paid by Ukraine to the Energy Community, which is calculated from the gross domestic product and the total supply of primary energy resources. At the same time, the agreement was concluded in 2005. And there's a concept there -- "qualified consumer," which was, should have been implemented gradually. As Ukraine later signed this agreement, only one year is left to implement the concept of “qualified consumer” for non-residential energy needs, and for domestic energy from 2005, that is, 5 years. These terms are shortened. There should be a plan in Ukraine to implement this concept. And so the request to the Cabinet of Ministers that such a plan be made to ensure that Ukraine does not fall behind in those terms, and this agreement has positive consequences because, unfortunately, there is no information in the accompanying documents as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u33	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction “BUT – “Fatherhood”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u34	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, obviously each of you has a daily practice of communicating with energy companies in Kiev and elsewhere. This is about the absolute inadequacy of the standards of energy networks with European standards. So when we approve today or if we ratify this agreement, we need to understand that Ukraine, in addition to taking on responsibilities to work in European standards and synchronizing its activities with European energy-efficient companies, with other networks, we need to ensure that legislation works within Ukraine to ensure, as a minimum, the parity of rights and obligations of those who produce electricity and those who consume it. Today we feel the dictates of energy-efficient companies. It is felt in the Carpathians when the private property of the energy company Prikarpatoblenergo shuts down the small ski lifts on the weekends, where people should ride, killing their business, because there is a big business “Bukkel”. The same is true today in the Kyiv region. I've recently noted that certain areas of the area are shut down seven times, eight times a month without any responsibility. So by ratifying this agreement, and we're going to vote in favour of ratification, I'd like to draw the Ministry of Energy's attention to a little bit more sharply, and I'd say a professional response to these facts, and a lot of them, thousands of them. After I had called twice on the weekends, when people were just resting, there was virtually a break in the middle of each cold period of the year, when many people used electricity, including for heating houses. Therefore, as we move to European standards in our relations with other countries, we need to move on to European standards of relations with our own consumers. This is a requirement of the people. We should live in standards other than those in which we live today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to approve the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine's Accession to the Treaty on the Establishment of the Energy Community. Registration number 0198. Please vote. [[10:48:03]] For 371 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[about tests]] Registration number 7063. The rapporteur is Ukraine’s national deputy, Kseniya Lapina. He is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Svetlan Schmelov. Why don't we take a brief look at the question? I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:48:52]] For 225 Decision taken. Please, Kseniya Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u36	Xenia Lapina, Party for Ukraine! Dear colleagues, you started here this morning because reforms sometimes make mistakes, they need to be corrected. So in fact, it's my bill to correct such a big mistake. I recall that in the spring of this year, long before the adoption of the Tax Code, most adopted a law that gave tax authorities no authority to control in the field of labour relations. Therefore, these powers are defined not only by the Tax Law but also by labour laws, such as the Labour Code. And in fact, they look absolutely out there, and they don't agree with other definitions and other norms. Moreover, the practice of applying these powers already has serious problems, labour conflicts are already emerging, because in this case the employee of the body — I emphasize, not just the tax service, but the tax police — can use as a source of the fight against the employer. As a result, not only does the controlling body have a conflict with the business entity but it also creates a conflict inside, between, in fact, the employee and the employer. [[or workers]] And we already have a reference to this subject. I would like to point out that, actually, after this law, when the Tax Code was approved, the Tax Service Act was kept separate, but it was noted that we should go back to it, because today this law is not harmonized with the Tax Code. And in this case, the same thing. The tax service and the tax police, and the tax police, I remind you, are acting in accordance with the Police Act, particularly in the field of taxation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u37	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u38	is given the right to control, to carry out certain types of checks, I underline, not provided for by the Tax Code. So adoption and adoption of this law will only correct the mistake that has already been made, and improve the situation, harmonise the relationship in this area more or less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I now invite you to the report to Svetlana Alexandrov. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u40	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on 20 October 2010, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work considered a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on verifications by the People's MP, Lápina Kseniya Mikhailna. The author of the legislative initiative proposes to amend article 259 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, article 35 of the Ukrainian Labour Act and articles 10, 11 and 11-1 of the Ukrainian Act on State Tax Service in Ukraine with the aim of bringing them into line with the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. Without objecting to the author's proposal to amend the Ukrainian Labour Code, the Committee notes that it cannot agree with the deletion of certain provisions of article 35 of the Ukrainian Labour Pay Act concerning the right of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, its structural units, the DPA bodies, professional associations and so forth to visit places of economic activity when carrying out the work function of hired workers and to receive information, documents and materials from labour. If this rule is excluded, the relevant authorities will be deprived of the ability to effectively monitor the enforcement of labour legislation, to demonstrate the payment of salaries in envelopes, not to pay wages in general, and to protect the rights of employed persons. The members of the committee agree with the position of Minfin and the DPA that the adoption of the bill may lead to abuse on the part of operators who hire employees and do not pay income taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u41	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u42	For the purposes of The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and notes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. The joint representative body of the trade unions considers it appropriate to consider the bill introduced after the adoption of the new Ukrainian Tax Code. Mine-economics does not support the specified bill. In the light of the foregoing, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on verifications to direct the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u43	Thank you, Svetlana Alexandrovno. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Yes, the names, please, of the national MPs. Andrew Pavlovski, “BUT” faction, “Fatherland”, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u44	Dear fellow national MPs! The bill is designed to limit the non-characteristic functions of the tax service, to reduce unwarranted, premeditated checks by the tax and tax police. At the same time, I would like to point out on the line that Mrs. Lapin's reporter mentioned that he did. That the current legislation and checks are directed against employers in the field of labour relations, I can say that this is not quite the case. If labor conflicts do arise, they usually end up in the hands of the employer, because he always has financial resources to redeem himself, including from such checks. And given that the authorities will now extend the Labour Code, where the employer is given a great advantage and the workers’ rights are limited, we need to pay attention. And at the same time, I would like to point out that the opposition faction “BUT – the Party of the Fatherland” has decided at its meeting to support the bill, because we have already strengthened the police functions of the various checking, controlling authorities, we do not need to give additional weight to the tax administration. Therefore, please accept the prescribed bill in the first reading and work on the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u45	Olesia Donyy, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u47	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u48	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! This bill will show whether it's really about economic reform and liberalisation, whether it's about what's an orthodox course, from which step to the left, you can't take a step to the right. Now, the central executive body created is the Labour Inspectorate, which is to control, including the enforcement of labour legislation, the timely payment of salaries, the timely repayment of arrears and the relationship between the employer and the hired worker. What's the tax on this now? Why should he intervene in this regard and go to find out how this person works for you or does not work for you as an employer, and what is the result of all these tests? Taxpayers here have powers that they don't have. And that's why I call on most people, if they're able to hear any valid arguments at all, to support this bill of Xenia Leapina. And what happens is that some of the functions are increasing, and by the way, the protection of small businesses, which is now declared at the highest level of power, is braked. Everyone stood up against Brodsky and fired Brodsky. But why do we have to cancel the entrepreneurship committee, and to whom do we go now to small entrepreneurs? In the Mine Economics? So there's a 15-20 vice-premier of the Clave. And a small entrepreneur somewhere in the Plains region doesn't reach him, and he doesn't have anyone to knock on. It's like we're improving and we're cutting the other one. Just put out the scandals that are inspired by the authorities regarding the failed Tax Code, we are now taking another blow on small and medium - size enterprise. Therefore, if there is any wish to make such a development impossible, now this bill of our party's one-party member “For Ukraine!” Kseniya Llapina supports and starts to correct things that are totally inappropriate and inappropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u49	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u50	There is no doubt that the legislative provision for the development of all forms of business, the legislative provision, that is, our work of support and development and small and medium-sized business and big and every business, of creating it at the legislative level of normal working conditions, is an extremely important task for all of us here in the session room. It is vital that we keep in mind in this good work that there is a businessman who works for him. If a private entrepreneur employs 4, 5, 10, 20 people, we should be here with you once and for all to say to such a businessman: “You are responsible for his working conditions, his pay and his future, that is, his pension insurance.” Dear colleagues, if we have 20 builders working on the new building, and we come in with tests and we see 120 there, please tell me, this extra 100, do they get the money how? What are the working conditions? Does the safety technique extend to them or not? Well, you can't throw away a child and water. Safety, working conditions, converting, and not converting are certainly to be controlled, necessarily controlled. And I have another piece of advice for Ukrainian national deputies from the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. If you mention the Labour Code here, take it into your hands at last, and read it, but don't study it, but at least know what it's about. On the one hand, the idea here is that you need to take down all the warnings about a control function in relation to employers. On the other hand, you're saying you have to do it, let's make some kind of one concept about our behavior, our attitude, the legislative provision of small and medium-sized businesses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The Committee’s conclusion: Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[about tests]] [[Registration number 7063]] Based on the base. [[11:02:14]] For 148 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on voting for re-reading the bill. [[11:02:44]] For 132 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, “BUT – Fatherland” – 84, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 43, Communists – 0, National Party – 0, non-fractional – 5. Dear colleagues! Now you have a proposal for a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine. [[on transparency of decision-making and financial reporting by public authorities, local self-government]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:03:33]] For 207 Decision taken. The rapporteur is National Deputy Andriy Vitaliovich Shevchenko. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Olga Borisovna Bodnar. Then I will ask the head of the committee, since Shevchenko is on a mission. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u52	Olga Bodnar, Faction of Yulia Timoshenko – Fatherskina, Fatherskina Party. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! The bill was considered at a committee meeting on March 31, 2010. The project proposes to make a number of changes to Ukraine's laws: on Kabmin, on local self-government, on local government administrations, on the principles of national regular policy in the field of economic activity, on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the State Service, on the fight against corruption, on the Budget and Criminal Codes of Ukraine, on which it is proposed to declare the costs of public officials; information on the stages of preparation, adoption and execution of any decision by the authorities should be posted on the official websites of the authorities; it is determined that all accounting transactions for the collection and expenditure should be submitted in chronological order to the database of the electronic computer network that is available to users of the official website of the body. The purpose of the bill is to ensure transparency of the financial activities of authorities and government officials. Regarding the bill, the committee received comments and suggestions from Mintrans, who suggested that he be returned to work. In addition, the draft bill was also made by the Committee on Combating Organized Crime, a corruption that supports the proposed legislative proposal; a Committee on Budget Issues, which notes that if adopted, the bill will have an impact on an additional part of the State budget, increasing it, so it should become effective not later than 1 January 2012, and recommends that the draft law delete chapter four. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus proposes that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. At the same time, in view of the anti-corruption orientation of the bill, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support the proposed legislative initiative and the results of the first reading of the proposal to accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u53	Yes, thank you, Olga Borisovna. Yes, the distinguished national MPs, who insist on discussing the issues, please sign up. Please show me your name. Yuri Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u54	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine is self-defence. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing MPs and minorities, and most of them have been asked to support this bill because it is. and thank the authors. In fact, there are a lot of authors: both Shevchenko, and Matvienko, and Stec, and Dony, and Strtovich, and Suslov, and Steckov, Maruschenko. I want to thank them for trying to take an integrated approach to this bill and for predicting the openness and transparency of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers in order to place all acts of a normative nature, their projects, information about initiating these acts on the official website. This time. The other one. They propose that the right of initiative in the adoption of the acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be vested with the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central executive authorities, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, Kyivska and Sevastopol City State Administrations, as well as public organizations with universal status. This is a very important proposition. Moreover, they also suggest making changes and predicting that if the rights and duties of Ukrainian citizens are determined, they would be subject to prior publicity and public discussion. Declarations for senior government officials, spending declarations are also proposed here for accounting operations. So, really, this bill has this anti-corruption orientation. Amendments to the Law on Local Governmental Administrations are also proposed, which also enhance transparency of authority. Changes are also proposed to the Budget Code. Both the Law on State Service and the Law on Committees of Ukraine. So I ask you to support me, despite the political orientation of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u55	Yuri Odarchenko, “BUT – Fatherland” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u57	Mikola Tomenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I would like to say about the first thesis that is very important in this bill that was proposed by the group of authors. Today, if we look at how the government authorities report on their activities, we'll see that virtually every ministry, district administration, central authority puts in a budget for maintenance, so-called disclosure of its activities. What does this mean for the most part? This is the case, for example, with a magazine in which, depending on the ethics and upbringing of the minister or manager of that body or governor, 30 photographs or three photographs of him are available. So there's pictures of deputies and some other bosses and stuff. I mean, hundreds of millions of dollars in budget spending today are taking pictures of the lives and well-being of officials at budget costs. You will not find any information about what the Ministry is doing, which is done by the district administration. So I think it's logical to go into this kind of information that needs to be clearly predicted and posted on websites, not in full color magazines, which means it's absolutely right. Now it's second position. We need to make clear that on this site, there are ministries, district administrations, or authorities that should be foreseen. Here, colleagues offered a list. I don't think he's perfect. You have to think and consult, let's say, in part or there, these payments are placed or placed, maybe if the general information isn't just about tender purchases, but let's say about basic financial transactions in a different way, and there's a fin plan or a fin plan. I'll tell you more, we've done the last survey, we've got 29 percent of the Internet today in Ukraine, 17.8 of them use the Internet daily. So if we put this kind of reporting information on websites, it means that practically every third person already knows what the government is doing. If we go along the way, if we continue to print newspapers, reports, or magazines, it's half a percent or one percent of people can learn about it. So I would say in this way: there are a lot of warnings and observations here that we should have foreseen in laws that we shouldn't have, but I supported the logic itself, the idea itself, and would have allowed the authors to continue working. So I also believe that the bill deserves support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of Bill No. 5,500, amending some of the Ukrainian laws to ensure transparency of decision-making and financial reporting by government authorities, local self-government. At the same time, I inform you, Your Honor, that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the bill needs to be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. The proposal for adoption is voted on as the basis of the draft Law. [[11:12:25]] For 135 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second sentence: re-reading the bill, registration number 5500. Please identify yourself. [[11:12:51]] For 135 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Full. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending article 14 of the Law on State Service (registration number 6640). The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:13:29]] For 203 Decision taken. The reporter is Xena Lapin. Correspondent is a member of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Anatoly Horbatuk. Please, Xena Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Xenya Lapina Party for Ukraine! We have repeatedly raised questions in this room that officials do not exercise their authority. And every time we talk about the need for responsibility. Each time these words remain only slogans, and in fact they are translated into abstract standards of some form of servicelessness or failure to fulfill their obligations in an abstract way. My proposal is very simple and understandable, perhaps because it is so negative and is perceived by officials today. I propose to amend article 14 of the State Service Act. Article 14, I recall, refers to the characteristics of the disciplinary responsibility of government officials. And that's what this is about. State officials, and it's about adding clarification to it, and that's exactly what this disciplinary responsibility is for. And I say that discipline is applied to a civil servant if, within a legal period of time, such an official has not granted permission or has refused to refuse his publication. Such a duty is laid upon such an official by law. And I want to pay attention, there's been a remark here that you can't take personal responsibility, because it's the responsibility of the body. My friends! There is no responsibility of the body — a college body, always responsible for a specific official who has failed to fulfill his responsibilities and responsibilities. But I suggest that this composition be clarified, not in an abstract way, about a general default, but rather a very specific case of failure. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u61	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u62	and the timeliness of granting permits to operators and eliminating many conflicts. I'm asking you to back it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u63	Thank you. Anatoly Alekseiovich Gorbatuk Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u64	Honorary Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, was instructed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Litvina, the Committee, on 20 October 2010, at its meeting, to review protocol 106/4 of the Ukraine Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on State Service, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Kseniya Ljapina. [[on strengthening the responsibilities of officials]] [[Registration number 6440]] [[of 31.05.2010]] The bill proposes that a standard for the application of disciplinary charges to civil servants be laid down by law, if a document of a permissive nature is not issued, or a decision to refuse to issue such documents, provided that such an entity is submitted in an orderly manner in full. The committee supports the aim set out in the bill to increase the responsibility of officials for failing to comply with the Ukrainian Act on Free Economic Activities, but, on the basis of the comments made to the bill, it cannot support it, inter alia, on the following grounds: First. The proposed rule does not belong to the subject of the Ukrainian Act on State Service, which defines the general principles of activity and the status of civil servants. [[Watch the preamble to the law]] The other one. The introduction of a separate rule in the Ukrainian State Service Act on the application of administrative engagement to a civil servant, in the event that he does not properly perform his duties solely in the area of discretion, is legally invalid, taking into account the rule of article 14 of the same law on the characteristics of the disciplinary responsibility of civil servants. Third. Administrative responsibility for violations of the procedure for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature is already provided for in the Code of Administrative Offences, article 166.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u65	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u66	The chief scientific expert at the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Apparatus is of the view that it is appropriate to reject the bill as a result of its first reading. On the basis of the noted National Deputies of Ukraine, the members of the Committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Part One of Article 114 of the Supreme Council Rules, to reject the draft Act of Ukraine amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Act on State Service, which was introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kseniya Ljapina. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u67	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the performance. May I see the names of the national MPs? Pavel Žebrovsky, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u68	The position of the committee as an axalator of Ukrainian politics said: “I am so ‘pro’ that I am against”. This is what the committee said and said. I am convinced that without the responsibility of the authorities for their actions, no reforms can be implemented in Ukraine. If today people are approached, they are not allowed to agree, agree, or refuse, they do not really know what to do, how to react. Of course, if there was a refusal, people would have the right to go to court and commit themselves to force the official to perform his duties. Then there would be no color, then there would be no bribes within the limits that they exist today. Without regulating these things that Mrs. Leapina has focused on, I am convinced that there will be no reform in Ukraine. I would suggest to the maximum that we can either support or re-send the first reading to settle this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u69	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u70	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. In my opinion, we are no longer seeing the first session when the agenda of the Supreme Council is being proposed, the opposition is being planned. And if you analyze it, it's an interesting thing to do. No draft law that really raises such important issues in the state, we don't really see them. In order to take time to distract just the national MPs and society, some sentence to some of them seems to have to be corrected, and that's how much time they take in the Supreme Council. I essentially want to remind the classics that I'm actually speaking. You're speaking, you've been taking so much time here, it's just that the Supreme Council of Ukraine doesn't want to listen and doesn't want to respect because you're simply taking away your populist slogans without meaning this time. So I'm making a specific proposal and I'd call it in. and would urge all the screamers who are now shouting and not listening to it, that we should take more systematic part in drafting laws that are really beneficial to Ukraine, not just taking up time. So I support the committee's decision, and I need these projects just to send them to the garbage disposal and that's the end of it, because that's not the division, that's not right and that's not fair. And in the end, if you look at it, it's like they're hurting businesses like that for civil servants. The civil servants saw you defend five of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues. What? After the vote. Dear colleagues, the committee has decided to propose to the Supreme Council to reject the bill. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same perspective. Along with how you know, according to the regulations, I'm putting to the vote the first proposal for adoption as the basis of the draft Act, to amend article 14 of the Ukrainian Civil Service Act. [[Registration number 6440]] [[on strengthening the responsibilities of officials]] [[11:23:43]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Since there is a decision on both the committee and the recommendation of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate on the rejection of the bill, I declare that the bill has been rejected. Please Xenia Leapina, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u72	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party for Ukraine! Dear colleagues! If the question of the official’s responsibility is irrelevant in this room, why is the entire room sitting in the first place? Then what do we want to do in the country? And I'm sorry, if you have no argument to say why you're not voting for this law, you'd better keep quiet. You know, that's when it's better to chew than to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u73	Dear, dear, dear colleagues! I think it's very good to have sayings. But at the same time, I believe that energy must be directed to convince the committee that it is necessary to adopt such a bill and to make a positive conclusion. And also work with lawyers who are not politically motivated. They make decisions and recommendations solely on the right plane. So I call on everyone, the entire Supreme Council, let's work on this essentially question. It's not political to bring rhetoric here. A draft Law amending article 410 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the responsibility of military personnel for useful military property violations, the Proposal, and to consider the issue of reduced procedures is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5119]] Please. Dear colleagues! I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:25:46]] For 196 Decision taken. Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk, head of the committee's committee on law enforcement, will report on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u74	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Allow me to speak as the author and as a reporter from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u75	Then four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u76	Today, the dynamics of the offences associated with the useful attacks on military property by the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, article 410, do not diminish, regrettably. The number of military personnel convicted of committing this crime is increasing annually. The purpose of the bill is to create conditions to reduce the level of useful military assaults on military property under article 410 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, as well as to improve the disposition of this article and the legislative regulation of matters of military property management, strengthening military discipline and the rule of law in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The project proposes article 410 of the Criminal Code for the following reasons. The current edition of this article does not give the same basis for assessing the social dangers of the use of military personnel as military property of general purpose, i.e. property covered by the notion of “other military property”, as well as weapons, war supplies, explosives or other combat materials, military and special equipment, which lead to violations of the principles of legality, justice and the irreversibility of criminal responsibility. Furthermore, article 410 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code does not provide a textual indication of the means by which she would commit the crime of destruction, the breakup with a view to incarcerating the military property of the general purpose, and the requirement of these items of military property are combined with violence that is dangerous to the life and health of the victim. This leads to the restriction of article 410 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code and to the lack of legal protection of military property. It is also suggested that the name of article 410 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code be clarified and simplified. In view of the fact that weapons, war supplies, explosives or other combat materials, means of transport, military and special equipment or other military assets can be defined by the concept of “military property”. I report that the Law Enforcement Committee has considered a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 410 of the Criminal Code on the Liability of Military Servants for Beneficial Infringements on Military Property from 10.09. [[Registration number 5119]] In 2009 The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus proposes that the first reading of the bill be rejected. During the discussion of the bill, however, Ukrainian national deputies concluded that the adoption of the bill would improve the legal mechanism for combating the use of military property. In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in the first reading on the basis. Let me explain what else is the point. So there has to be a separate responsibility for, sorry there, grandkids, boots, rollers, furs and separate responsibility for the direct weapons, ammunition, explosives, which is exactly what this bill is based on. Thank you for your attention, and please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u77	Thank you, Yuri Volodymyrovich, you too. Dear colleagues, if you would like to express your point of view on the bill, please sign in. Jaroslav Jodzik, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u78	I didn't get it. I didn't sign up, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u79	So that's what happened. I'll shoot it then. Honorable colleagues, since there are no willing speakers. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u80	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Usually, when it comes to the Criminal Code, I am a conservative when making changes. Usually. This is evidently determined by the fact that he worked on the code for three years, and it hurts when they interfered unprofessionally. In this case, it's not the case. I believe that the project proposes amendments to article 410 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, and they are justified by the author today to create conditions to reduce the level of useful military assault on military property under article 410 of the Criminal Code. This position will not affect the ability of the State or other things. That's why I'm going to propose this bill to be adopted. I would also like to address Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin myself, and to remind Vladimir Mikhailovich that you, apart from the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are still an academic, well-known scientist. And I'm addressing you on an urgent matter. The term that happened in the scientific world. You know that the University of Donetsk changed the Rector, expelled by the Hero of the Ukraine of Shevchenk, elected the collective to choose Lisenko Yuri Grigorovich, who is in Kiev today for approval. And at that time, the police in Donetsk came to search him, where only his wife was present. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I ask you to take all measures, to address the President, to address the Attorney-General, to address the Minister of Internal Affairs and to stop the prosecution for a misdemeanour, so that one "same committee" can be established. Don't give God in Ukraine "enacommunity," let's just say he's not in science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I remind you that the committee is proposing to adopt Bill 5119 as a basis. The main scientific and expert office has come to the conclusion that it is necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject the bill. A proposal to adopt draft Law 5119 amending article 410 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code is put to the vote on the responsibility of military personnel for beneficial violations of military property. [[11:33:23]] For-56 The decision is not taken. In view of this low level of support for the bill, I announce its rejection. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to our consideration. Yes, with regard to the report by Yuri Karmazin, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate requests for us to receive proper information and to be able to inform the deputies on this matter. Please do this immediately. A draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on increasing responsibility for burning vegetation or its residues]] Registration number 5171. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I would like to remind you that we have an appropriate administrative responsibility for burning the stove. [[11:34:26]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u82	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! What happens from year to year is in our fields, when fields are burning up, when landings are destroyed, when there is tremendous damage to society, to nature, to the environment, it has put the bill on the agenda. It offers only three important things. First. Decriminalize responsibility for the destruction or damage to the core of dry wild grass, vegetation, or its remains on land areas less than one hectare. Because most of the land’s owners are of this size. Instead, it is proposed to increase economic sanctions for these actions for owners of such areas by another draft amendment to the Code of Administrative Violations. The other one. It is proposed that fines be increased for destruction or damage by fire or other dangerous means to the rudders of dry wild grass, vegetation, or its remains on agricultural land of more than one hectare of land, and that the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities for a period of between 1 year and 2 years. Since it is the officials of agribusinesses or persons who own or use land that has more than one hectare [more than one ha] of agricultural land on purpose, for the purpose of economics they do not take the necessary measures after timely processing, disposal or export of plant wastes, or the failure of other persons to burn out and ensure that they are extinguished at the right time. And the third. The goal is to increase responsibility for the same actions if they have been repeated or caused the loss of lives, mass loss of animals or other serious consequences. By increasing the sanctions, it is punishable by a fine of 3,000 to 5,000 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes, without free will.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u83	Microphone. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u84	Thank you. . and the denial of the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities for a period of two to three years. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to confiscate land from such poor owners or tenants, that would immediately lead to a complete cessation of such cases. Unfortunately, we do not have the land that is a national acquisition and belongs to all the people of Ukraine must be protected. That's why this law is designed to protect our mother earth. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u85	Thank you. Vladimir Romanovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u86	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Honorable National Deputies! Dear Head! The main author of the bill, George Carmazin, reported on the substance of the proposed changes. I'll say that the bill was signed by almost every faction in Parliament. The bill is supported by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. The Office of the Attorney General, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the State Committees, and other committees were supported. Despite the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority denies the bill, the Committee on Law Enforcement suggests that it be supported in the first reading and on the basis of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this bill. Names, please show me. Vladimir Yavorowski, “BUT” faction – “Fatherhood”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u88	Dear voters, distinguished nationals! I'm going to tell you right now that this bill suddenly came into discussion with us in a faction. They were “for” people, they were “against”. At least my position is very clear. You and I, remember, don't close your eyes, remember these games over Ukraine, which are always somewhere, starting in August, until about October of the month. The first thing I want to say is that after such arsons, after such fires, there is virtually nothing left alive in the earth, no worm, no insect, and so forth. It's just a desert after all. Remind these trees that will burn literally. Along the road. I had a personal episode when I was driving, and I had to stop and wait about an hour and a half for all that was going to burn because it was really dangerous. And you, Suhi, keep your mouth shut because you're the one that burns the most, you understand? Yes. So I want to say that, of course, maybe the author of this bill took too hard parameters, there's 2-3 years in prison and not work afterwards, there's no job permit, let's say, in management positions or anything like that. But I'd like to explain another position about, well, some say, there's farmers, they're so poor there and so on. I understand, but you know that in that case you just have to ban it. Otherwise, I say again, we're going to turn these famous Ukrainian soils into desert. Because I'm personal, and I think that a large part of the BET will vote in favour of this bill being adopted, but in the first reading, in order to actually fix and remove these might be too harsh, so to speak, the norms that he put into this bill. [[Carthage is nowhere to be found]] Lowering them a little there is possible, and fines are smaller to do, and imprisonment is less, and perhaps something.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u89	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u90	And then we'll have a normal bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I remind you that the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is appropriate for subjects to be returned to the right of legislative initiative to work. In this way, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for burning vegetation or its remains. Please vote. [[11:42:26]] For 363 Decision taken. Let us now vote on the changes to the Constitution in order to achieve such unanimity. [[Noise in the hall]] For the budget. (Front) [[Laughter]] Dear colleagues, it's for you to step away from such intense work. For discharge. You will have the opportunity to vote in February. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending articles 283 and 308 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the payment of a double fine has been announced. [[Registration number 5272]] Again, the suggestion is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:43:35]] For 217 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk, both from the copyright team and from the committee. So four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The question of the need to settle the payment of a double fine is set out in this bill, which you are asked. The current version of articles 283 and 308 of the Code on Administrative Offences does not define the procedure for double the fine in cases of failure to pay a fine to the offender within the prescribed term. The bill proposes legislative approval of the practice of drafting material on administrative offences, which regulates the establishment of a double fine by legislative acts, namely: the valid Order of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine No.242 of 02.06.2009, Decree of the National Bank of Ukraine No.357 of 17.06. 2009 and other legal acts. In accordance with article 23 of the Code of Administrative Offences, the purpose of administrative engagement is to provide educational aid. The application of the charges for administrative offences should aim at creating a psychological barrier for the offender against the commission of such offences. Fear is one of the measures that influence the mental state and property of the wrongdoer. In addition, unlawful acts cause serious damage to the State, so determining the amount of the fine should take place immediately upon the issue of an administrative offence. The purpose of this law is to amend articles 283 and 308 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which aim at harmonising the existing system of penalties, improving state regulation and liability for failure to pay the offender a fine within the prescribed time limit. The bill proposes to amend articles 283 and 308. Part two of article 283, after the words “in the matter of the decision”, add with the words “the double amount of the fine in the case of the assignment of this administrative fee”. That paragraph of the first part of article 308 reads as follows: “Double amount of the fine as defined in the administrative fine order”. The legislative acts in this area of regulation are the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and Legislative Acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The implementation of the bill after its adoption does not require amendments to other laws of Ukraine. And the implementation of the law in its practical application does not require additional financial costs from the state budget of Ukraine. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences will give the authority or the official authority who is authorized to decide on the imposition of an administrative fine more than twice the fine. That would correspond to the degree of social danger, crime, or wrongdoing. It will also contribute to improving government regulation and accountability for failure to pay fines in due course. The Professional Committee has considered the bill and considers it possible to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on its first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u93	You all have it, don't you? Thank you. Dear colleagues! Who would like to comment on this bill? You don't? Can we vote? The committee proposes to adopt a bill as a basis. The main science-expert administration has made a negative conclusion. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law, amending articles 283 and 308 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[Registration number 5272]] [[on payment of a double fine]] [[11:48:18]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! We are now to consider the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (to keep the secret of confession). At the same time, the author made a request to postpone consideration of the matter to the next plenary for the next plenary week. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, Yavorowski, please. Vladimir Yavorowski, turn it on. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u94	Well, Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, it's the author's business to move, and then there's the other thing. However, we have somehow forgotten that there are spiritual prescriptions, and every priest, by entering his office, must make such a sure promise that he is never obliged to divulge the mystery of confession anywhere. Because of this, I don’t know if we still need to impose laws on a secular level. We think we're just insulting the priests and putting them in a stupid position. And I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we all confess here in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u95	All right, then I'll invite everyone by the priest, and we'll do it. But, dear colleagues, there is one problem. In fact, the priest accepts such an obligation, but there are still law enforcement agencies. And there's a huge conflict. It should be noted in this law that the priest’s appearances do not have any legal force, then there will be no pressure on the priest. This cut would require a decision. Because if a man has committed a certain offense and he punishes himself, and he has made the right conclusions, then I think it's the most punishment for a man. So let's do it this way. We will listen to the author’s point of view, perhaps recommending him to see that this bill could be finalized and postponed. Don't you have to vote? Let us then, fellow believers, keep the Rules to the vote. I'm asking you to support me. Proposal for a transfer of review of the draft Law, registration number 5335. Please be supportive. [[11:51.]] For-300 Thank you for understanding. Dear colleagues, I am announcing for consideration the draft Law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve the criminal liability mechanism for fraud with financial resources (registration number 5427). The request here from the authors to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. [[11:51:41]] For 223 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Vladimir Romanovich Moysik and co-rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of Vasil Mikolaiovich Grisak.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u96	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill deals with improving the criminal responsibility mechanism for fraud with financial resources. The Criminal Code of Ukraine contains article 212, which provides for the responsibility of tax evasion, article 222, which provides for the responsibility of fraud with financial resources, where the same applies to tax evasion by unlawfully receiving tax benefits. The crime of fraud with financial resources is now recognized as giving notoriously false information to banks, authorities, local governments for the purpose of obtaining credit, subsidies, subsidies, or tax benefits. In the bill that I drafted and proposed, we predict that criminal responsibility should arise, not for the fact that false information has been provided, but for the illegal acquisition of credit, subsidies, subsidies or tax benefits. The practice of court over the decades that I have studied confirms that in 100 percent of cases of fraud with financial resources, fraud has actually been brought to bear credit, subsidies, subsidies or tax benefits. There are other legal and technical amendments to the bill that we think are improving the bill. The committee on law enforcement supported the bill if there was no Basil Gretzak, and asked him to support it in the first reading on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u97	Thank you, too. Yes, please, from the committee. Is that how you reported from the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u98	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have spoken with you. If there is no Basil Gretzak, the Committee on Law Enforcement supported the bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Names, please show the national MPs who are registered. Vladimir Karpuk, microphone. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u100	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We support this important bill. Vladimir Romanovich learned, indeed, a very large amount of material about liability for fraud with financial resources, it's his scientific work for a long time, it's approved by law enforcement, and we support the adoption of this law as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u101	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office made a number of comments and on the basis of which the bill proposes to reject what the reporter said. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of Bill 5427 on amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve the criminal liability mechanism for fraud with financial resources. [[11:55:52]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is the turn of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the competence of law enforcement authorities in matters relating to the protection of underwater cultural and archaeological heritage]] Bill number 6604. Him. The author of this bill is our colleague Shemchuk Viktor Viktorovich. Dear colleagues, with regard to this bill, there is a positive conclusion both by the committee and by the Scientific and Experimental Authority. Maybe we'll take it as a basis. The question is very important. If we have the good will to accept its foundation. Is there good will like that? [[B in m in s a l in]] Can we vote now? Now, let's listen to the committee representative. I thought we'd be off at 12 o'clock and take a break right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u102	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Our colleague Shemchuk's bill refers to an underwater cultural and archaeological heritage. Well, not all of us knew about these issues, but he asked the question that since 2001, black underwater archaeologists have been actively working on sunken sunken ships and have been taking historical and cultural values. The author cites the Esminator Frunze, who is located in the Tendrian Hair Aquarium, the Douglas-Boston bomber in Aluupka, a submarine. - 212 in Snake, Sulina, Salzburg and others who are objects of a cultural underwater heritage, but there is no one who can write protocols on those black underwater archaeologists who are engaged in and destroyed this heritage. So both the committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration support the idea of the bill and suggest that it be adopted in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u103	Dear colleagues who insist on discussing it, please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Odarchenko. Please, the Faction “BUT – Fatherland”. Then Yuri Karmazin. Dear colleagues, this is a proposition: let's finish this consideration, and then I'll call it a day. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll see you in the morning. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, we should thank the authors of this law, because today this issue is not being properly resolved. There is widespread destruction and looting of underwater cultural and archaeological objects. As a representative of Hersonland, I can testify that the Dniepra Delta is now seriously looting colonies. Greek colonies. A colony like Olivia, she stayed because she's above the water. And those who, after the construction of the Kakhov watershed, find themselves, and the changes in the Dnieper delta, underwater, are now seriously looting. So these facts cause anxiety, resentment, and need to be addressed. This is a serious threat to the loss of unique monuments not only to the Ukrainian people but also to the world community. In my view, therefore, we need to support a project that envisions the granting of powers to the Foreign Service and, above all, the obligation to protect an underwater cultural heritage, so that there are no infamous facts of its destruction, simply theft of historical monuments. Understandably, cultural heritage authorities need to report annually on the state of affairs in this area to the public. And this is a serious plus for this bill because it provides for such reports. Our seas carry out many scientific projects and studies that are often geared toward underwater culture or archaeological heritage. To date, this has no legislative basis for denying organizers such projects if necessary. I call on all deputies to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u105	Thank you, too. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, let's consult while Yuri Anatolyovich is on his way. We could do it this way. Work till 13 o'clock. It is estimated that we could consider all the questions in the next 13 hours. And given that we now have all the committees working on budget issues, we could focus earlier on the work of the committees on these issues. If you don't mind, let's do this. Don't you have to vote? No, it's not. Thank you. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u106	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the high level of readiness of this bill. It is practically written in such a way that there is nothing to add in the second reading. There are changes to six laws, or complex ones. And a permit is granted and the State Border Service is obliged if it has only enough fuel, to stop and inspect the vessel and its vessels in an orderly fashion. Here, at last, they found a job for the Ukrainian Security Service, other than listening and watching the opposition. Finally, there is also an obligation to report to the central executive body and to the public on the state of preservation of cultural heritage objects, in accordance with the legislation for the protection of underwater cultural and archaeological heritage. The Act on the Protection of Architectural Heritage, the exclusive maritime economic zone of Ukraine, or the Law, is also amended. And because of that, I think, and I ask you now to listen to the thoughts that were on behalf of the committee that this bill should be adopted as soon as possible. And now the speech of our colleague, who spoke about it, is why I asked you to accept in the first reading, the offer to you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Then listen to someone’s comments. If there are no comments in the audience, this will be in line with the Rules, when the second reading can be accepted immediately. Once again, this law is extremely high-level -- it's comprehensively prepared. Thank you for your attention. And thank you to my colleague Shemchuk for preparing this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! No one insists on the performance anymore? No, it's not. Then I'm voting on the proposal of a committee that coincides with the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration on the adoption of Bill 6604 as a basis. Please vote. [[12:03:49]] For 323 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Here was an offer to accept the project as a law. There's no objection. Taking into account the observations of our terminological lawyers. Is there no objection? Since there is no objection, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law as the Terminological Rights Act, which proposed by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Please vote. [[12:04:40]] For 326 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now going to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine. [[concerning the registration of a person's place of residence]] [[Registration number 4532-1]] The proposal to consider this issue by a simplified procedure. [[12:05:18]] For 193 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you and I have agreed that we will be able to complete our consideration of the issues set by the schedule for today, and then we will start working on the committees, and there was unanimity support. The rapporteur is national deputy Dubil Valerij Aleksandrovich, and co-rapporteur is the head of the Human Rights Committee, national minorities and inter-national relations, Pavlovenko Edouard Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u108	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, the bill I have tabled amending the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine proposes to introduce the possibility of registering, the place of residence of a person for the existence of a document which testifies to his right to a residence in which the registration is carried out, or the existence of written consent of the owner of such residence. One reason for drafting the bill was the individual complaints of voters who had experienced the imperfections of existing legislation. Yes, a valid version of the Ukrainian Freedom of Movement Act and free choice of residence provides for the duty of persons legally based in Ukraine within 10 days of their arrival at a new place of residence to register. In doing so, the law provides for an excluded list of documents required for registration. This is a written application, passport, payment receipt, and two copies of the registration card. Also, the only reason to register a person’s residence is because of his application, and the law prohibits the requirement to register the month of registration of the person for other documents. The absence of a statutory requirement for the consent of the owner of the residence to register in it leads to cases where the tenant on the contract of employment was temporarily registered with them, created fictitious firms, received credits and drove away, and had to go to law enforcement agencies, courts, and contacts with creditors. Moreover, it is only by decision of the court that such a hired owner is entitled to write, and only after six months of not living there. One scholar, a candidate for medical sciences, who prescribed her niece, was shown to do so. The niece gave birth to three children, prescribed them there, and then the resident was to go to the nursing home. The circumstances confirm the need to regulate the registration of a person’s residence, to whom most of the committee’s colleagues have paid attention. I ask this bill to be supported in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u109	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Pavlenko Eduardo Ivanovich of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! A bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence and Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputy, considered by the Committee. [[concerning the registration of a person's place of residence]] [[Registration number 4532-1]] The author of the bill proposes to complete the list of documents to be submitted for registration of a person’s place of residence, a document certifying his or her ownership of such residence or the written consent of the owner of the residence. First of all, I would like to point out that this supplement is contrary to the rules of current legislation, and its implementation will lead to violations of the rights of citizens, particularly those who have not exercised the right to privatize their dwellings and continue to live in it on the basis of a contract of employment. This is particularly true in rural areas, since the vast majority of citizens in rural areas do not have properly documented documents that confirm ownership of the house. This will not only prevent the registration of a large number of persons but also make it more difficult for them to exercise their rights. The proposed rule is contrary to Ukraine's international obligations, particularly the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950, which makes it impossible for them to be adopted. This is also highlighted in the conclusion of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the bill is appropriate to be rejected by the outcome of the first reading. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Choice of residing in Ukraine, to return the right of legal entities to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u111	Thank you, Edward Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, shall we vote? Yes, who but Teren insists on discussing it? Please, it's Terrena's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u112	Victor Terrence, “The Timoshenko Yulia Block”. Today, respected colleagues everywhere have, unfortunately, the politics of double standards in our country. Well, let's start with the Tax Code giving preference to big business, but it destroys small and medium-sized business. Or, let's say the budget we adopted yesterday protects essentially the rights of large oligarchs and provides for the allocation of astronomical funds, let's say the same Presidential Administration, but leads to further poverty for those who have been promised a better life today. And so there's still this policy of double standards, although the idea of light, the idea of improving the registration process of the bill, which was introduced by the people's MEP Dubyl, is basically good. But he would essentially protect the rights of those who have housing. Well, that's true. He would protect the rights of those who have housing, but he would not defend the rights of those who do not have it and would, in fact, make it difficult for them to register. And that's why it's hard to disagree with the committee's decision, and I want to support what the Pavlovenko People's MP said, which is actually a bill contrary to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the 50th Year, and so the bill needs to be drafted. And by running ahead, I would suggest that I accept it in the first rereading to correct, perhaps so, it would probably be fair. Because today, human rights are being violated everywhere and everywhere in Ukraine. And we cannot allow further adoption of bills that will only contribute to this process. And the fact that the human rights situation in Ukraine is absolutely catastrophic is at least the case. It's literally a half-word trailer. When journalist Mustafa Najema is pulled out of the car because he has, you see, the face of Caucasian nationality. Perhaps to please Russia, where xenophobia thrives and, sadly, fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u113	Thank you. Vote. I would like to vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Circumstances in Ukraine. [[4532-1]] [[concerning the registration of a person's place of residence]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:13:13]] For-56 The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the term of trust in land law enforcement]] [[Registration number 4781]] The Hare reports. The rabbit reporter? Yeah, but so did Jojik. Please, Joey, then. And Zabarsky's report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u114	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! According to the Earth Code, which is in force today, a moratorium on the privatization of agricultural land is in place. However, the Ukrainian reality is that at this moment a whole pleia of land latifundists has been formed, and hundreds of hectares of land have been stranded forever. Obviously, Parliament’s responsibility should be to create legislative obstacles on this path. The Civil Code rules of 1 January 2004 provide for the right of civil relations participants to enter into agreements and to issue trust to represent the interests of the person on an indefinite basis. In practice, during the years of the new Civil Code, many facts have emerged when individual citizens and legal persons began to use the legal institution of a representative to insulate large numbers of agricultural lands behind them through a disguised form of permanent, uninterrupted trust in the proper administration of the Xianami of agricultural land. In doing so, the state’s moratorium on similar real estate operations. The aim of establishing, amending the law is to define in legislation the provisions of the Civil Code of Ukraine as far as possible, allowable periods of trust to represent the interests of Ukrainian citizens and the terms of the exercise of trust in land administration. Thus it is suggested in article 245 that the following paragraph be added: “Trust in the commission of a rightful deed in respect of a land owned by one or more natural persons should be notarised.” And also in article 247 there is a proposal to establish the following wording: “The cost of confidentiality is established in confidence and cannot exceed 5 years from the date of its issuance. If the term of confidentiality is not specified, it shall remain valid for five years from the date of its completion.” Dear colleagues! I ask you to support this bill and to close this legislative gap for the purpose of publicly withdrawing from the shadow of illegal land transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u115	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u116	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy reviewed the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on November 17, 2009. [[on the term of trust in land law enforcement]] The bill provides for amendments to articles 245, 247, 1001 of the Civil Code of Ukraine on the limitation of confidence and contract-of-service activities that are subject to legal action on land. Having considered the observations and proposals of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, relevant ministries, the State Committee on Land Resources, the Supreme Council's Institute for Legislation, taking into account the findings of the Supreme Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules, the Committee on Legal Policy concluded that the proposed amendments duplicate the norms of the Ukrainian Civil and Earth Codes, do not harmonize with each other, narrow the content and scope of existing human rights and freedoms guaranteed by effective legislation, which is contrary to article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And so the bill needs legal and technical work. In connection with that committee, according to article 116, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, paragraph 3, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return the prescribed bill to the subjects of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u117	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! Please write a question down for discussion, if that's what you need. Names of the national MPs, please. Viacheslav Kirilenko faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Catherine Samuel will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u118	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine! I, my dear colleagues, would like to support the initiative of my colleague from the Ukrainian People's Party, Jaroslav Jodjik, who is justly speaking about limiting these fraud mechanisms, in fact, selling land, when peasants don't know about it, don't give it up, and sometimes they don't know it. I'm not saying that they're not getting any profit for themselves at this point. At the same time, there is probably no solution in Parliament right now. Although everyone in the hall knows that these land-based latifundists who have been born all over Ukraine, they have not fallen into us from the EU, they have not been imported from NATO, and they were mostly born here, by the way, by the way, former communists, and now they are such dishonest entrepreneurs. And they take away the land wherever they can and as far as they can. That's why I'm supporting my colleague Jojik. And one more thing. There my Bill 7155 will vote for inclusion in the agenda. Well, it probably won't be voted for, unfortunately. So now I want to say from the rostrum of this one, using the opportunity. We must protect Ukrainian land. But Ukrainian education must also be protected. For example, from such sad officials as the minister of education and science and, somehow, the young and the sports, as if he had become an athlete, such as Dmitri Tobacco. Now, every minute, he's working on how to destroy the National University of Kiev-Mogilian Academy. Why? But because the rector, the students, the teachers allowed themselves to publicly disagree with this poor minister's course. And the fact that thousands of candidates, the doctors of science who have brought glory to Ukraine in the world, are graduates of this university; the fact that the graduates of the Kiev-Mogilian Academy are already sitting in our room is not of interest to the High Minister of Tobacco. To destroy him, people knowingly, professionally, competently opposed him. I believe that Parliament must take on this issue and protect the Kyiv-Mogilian Academy.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u119	Thank you. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u120	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. I want to point out that in 20 years of national Democrats, we don't know exactly what's happening to the earth today. And before we could say and say, "You have to protect the earth," we had to do everything in order to manage, not some foreign consultant, but to do everything we could to make the land our peasants owned. I'll tell you in our Herson area. I don't even know how much land is left for Ukrainian peasants. You see, there's Americans there, they've created some farming or some farming; there's the holocausts. And they don't use the land, they smudge the land, and at the same time they lined it up for 49 years. Tell me, who, in 49 years, will remember where this land belongs, where it belongs, where my pie is? And it seems to me that we need at all, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, we need to adopt some special law at all, we need to do an inventory in whose hands the land is in today's hands. Why is it in the hands of foreigners? Why it's in the hands of the latifundists. Why is it that contracts are made in such a way that a person who has a priceless pie, a priceless treasure, has become a throng, and does not even receive what is to be obtained for this pie today? So, of course, we have to figure it out. It's just a small step, it's not going to solve the problem, and we're going to have to take the state's approach to solving the land problem in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. Regarding inventory, Katerina Seminovna, respected colleagues, I'm at all possible broadcasts, shouting meetings, society, mostly deaf people, they want to buy and they want to sell. We always play and say that we have people who are smart, they know everything. This is true, but the person who robbed them, take the Kyiv region, the people who stand and defend this land, voted again in the elections for those who robbed the area. And everyone knows who stole it. Everyone knows and voted again, the biggest votes cast. Let's make a decision, I agree. We need to do inventory first to know how many and why. Anything illegal will be turned back and then solved all the other issues. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal first, regardless of what the committee is proposing to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to draft a bill. This is the view of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. However, I am voting in accordance with the Rules on the proposal for adoption on the basis of draft Act No. 4781 concerning amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[on the term of trust in land law enforcement]] Please vote. [[12:25:12]] For 128 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, BUT – Fatherland – 52, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 33, communists – 26, People's Party – 12, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, then I will put to the vote the return of the subject of the right of legislative initiative to draft the bill. Please vote. [[12:25:52]] For 322 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act is under review. [[on clarifying the concept of "specialized editions" and eliminating contradictions between individual provisions of the Law]] [[Registration number 5316]] The request is to consider it as a reduced procedure. Yes, the reporter is Uklov, the National MP. [[12:26:27]] For 196 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u122	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The project proposes to detail legislation that deals with specialized publications and to define more clearly the characteristics of advertising individual types of goods in printed media that refer to specialized publications. An analysis of the provisions of the current Advertising Act has shown that criteria allowing to speak about the availability of specialization in the case of article 21 of the Advertising Act are presented by a category of readers, special editions for medical institutions and doctors, and in the case assigned. Article 23 of the Law provides for special thematic orientation. For example, specialized publications on weapons. We believe that this approach regarding the definition of criteria that allow for special editions to be considered and that, in turn, it allows special advertising rules for certain products to be applied to printed media, which are specialized publications in some of the features of advertising in such printed alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. In our opinion, the adoption of this bill will allow for the removal of existing gaps in the current Advertising Act, which refers to the concept of specialized publications and the characteristics of advertising for certain goods. This is not entirely normal when we, by adopting amendments to the Advertising Act in March 2008 and by limiting these changes to the advertising of alcohol, tobacco and other printed media, except for specialized publications, did not say at the legislative level, and that is what special editions should be understood. To eliminate these contradictions. I'm sorry, there's this bill. I have also been asked to report a bill on behalf of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Media. In view of the foregoing, I report that on 16 December 2009, the committee at its meeting reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Advertising Act. [[on clarifying the concept of "specialised editions"]] [[Registration number 5316]] The bill was.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u123	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u124	The People's Deputies Contdratiuk and Bagrayev, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the results of the first reading of the introduction bill. So to accept it in the first reading is a recommendation from our committee. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the draft law can be adopted on the basis of the first reading. And in the second reading, we're going to make some adjustments, if they do, and we're going to have amendments from public organizations. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. If we don't want to talk about it, we'll vote. Vladimir Karpuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u126	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We support the adoption of this law on the basis of the adoption of amendments to the Advertising Act concerning the prohibition of advertising for alcohol and tobacco products, and as far as we know, the amendments to the Advertising Act in Ukraine really need to be clarified. Because so many of these publications are now being published, we know that there are a lot of magazines coming to the MPs, where there is advertising for alcohol products, tobacco products, despite the ban on advertising. This will also apply to changes in medical supplies. So there is a need for adoption of this bill. There are notes, indeed, about the technique of drafting this bill, but it deserves to be accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u127	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, really, we are this bill, our colleagues want to regulate the problem that we have created. And when you and I adopted the bill, remember, we banned the advertising of alcohol and tobacco from external advertising. We forbade popular people then from advertising beer in the law. True, only some after a beer of poker advertise. Well, less so. We started to restrict advertising on television. I think we should get to the point where we can ban direct beer advertising and brand advertising, because no one is a brander, and in fact, direct alcohol advertising is going on. But the bill details what we did not fully prescribe. We said "except special editions," and now the question is. So the authors did the right thing. What is a specialized edition? A specialized edition, if it is an object of farming, for example, a vineyard publishes a magazine where it writes what kind of wine it produces, a specialized edition may tell you about it because it is a wine factory, provided it is a restaurant. This includes, is included in the corresponding cover, is sold in the appropriate place. So this is a specialized edition, like all over the world. For example, a newspaper or a magazine that writes about social life, and so forth, has no right to advertise alcohol and tobacco. So I think it's the right thing to do. We need to take the first reading and consult with experts, lawyers on how to technically prescribe in the second reading, so that we do not get into conflict with other rules of advertising legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on clarifying the concept of "specialised editions" and eliminating the contradictions between the individual provisions of the law"]] [[Registration number 5316]] Please vote. [[12:32:48]] For 316 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is now proposed that you consider the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on improving communication legislation]] [[Registration number 3042]] The proposal, once again, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:33:20]] For 212 The reporter is Vitaly Terentiyovich Korz. Correspondent Moroko Yuri Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee on Transport and Communications. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u130	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, is considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on improving communication legislation]] [[Registration number 3042]] This bill proposed to improve legislation in relation to the recommendations of the relevant EU and Council of Europe directives. The drafters proposed a large number of novels, some of which had already been adopted by the Supreme Council in other bills. But the work on this project is not over. We get a lot of suggestions that confirm its relevance. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority proposes to send a draft bill for further work on the results of the first reading. Similarly, the Committee on Transport and Communications supports this view. We must accept such recommendations, and taking into account the recent reform of the administration proposed by the President, the changes in the system of executives, the new tasks of these bodies are becoming more evident in the need for substantive drafting of the bill. As one of his authors, I ask the Supreme Council to approve the decision to return the draft to work. [[Registration number 3042]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u131	Thank you, Vitaly Terentiyovich. Dear colleagues, may we immediately vote on this proposal, the more it matches the committee's position? I am voting on the proposal to return the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to the right of the legislative initiative to work. [[Registration number 3042]] Please vote. [[12:35:59]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Then I have to put the draft law on the ground. That's what logic requires. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of bill 3042 as a basis. [[12:36:32]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear National Deputies! We need to consider a number of drafts for inclusion in the agenda. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation, the author of which is the national deputy of Ukraine Arsenij Yatsenuk. [[on additional guarantees for the realization of the rights of Ukrainian national deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 7267]] It's just inclusion in the agenda. [[12:37:21]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The bill is not included in the agenda. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts of Ukraine (registration number 7129, author of the National MP Andri Pavlovski. [[on the inadmissibility of violating the rights and limiting the social guarantees of citizens when entering into international agreements]] [[12:38:04]] For-82 The decision is not taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Preschool Education, by Viacheslav Kirilenko. [[on the non-admission of forced preschool education]] [[Registration number 7155]] About the inclusion in the agenda, if we include this, then we'll talk. What, what? [[12:38:45]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Please, Catherine Samuel. Then Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u132	But no, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it had to be put to the vote. I want to tell you that there is no conclusion from the Scientific and Scientific Administration that the committee has not considered this issue. Moreover, due to parliamentary hearings, it is by law that the obligation of preschool education, five - year education, is regulated. As a member of the College of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, I would like to make the following statement. That this year has been declared a year of preschool education. For the first time in 20 years of independence, 14 preschools were built during this year. Moreover, to date nearly 95 percent of five - year - olds are enrolled in preschool education. In this way we create a level playing field for preschool children, regardless of their background, so that they can continue to learn and receive basic education.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u133	Thank you. I inform you, Your Honor, that the bill that the bill was registered on September 21st. [[I'll give it to you.]] The deadlines are all one minute, all the terms, all the terms, the honourable colleagues, all the deadlines are over. And the Science and Experimental Authority concludes after the bill has been incorporated into the agenda. What will it do that no one may need? So here, we did everything right here. The only problem is, dear colleagues, that we've caused so much trouble in the education system, that we're going to bury them for a long time. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u134	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u135	We, I said we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u136	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party “For Ukraine!” I don't know who's going in there, but education is falling out. And the myth of someone building kindergartens is no more than myths. And the situation seems to be that nearly half of Ukrainian children, now obliged by the new law to go to kindergartens, have no place to go. Because there is no money to build new ones, and those who are are overcrowded, especially in large cities, and in villages of 5, 6, 7 villages can have one kindergarten and that one is not supported by any real financing. And if all this is done for the sake of the one so - called Minister of Education named Tobacco, then we will destroy not only the higher education he has already received, not only the secondary education he has begun to beat, but also the preschool education in which he understands little, but now he owes all the children there to get some certificates. And this problem will return to the Supreme Council. So let's solve it now, not then.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u137	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, respected colleagues, are not included in the agenda. Exchanged thoughts. Let's move on. There is a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act to prevent the deterioration of the pension security of Ukrainian citizens. [[Registration number 7275]] Author group: Pavlovski, Sokka, Vyazovsky. Integrating into the agenda, your honors. Come on. [[12:42:34]] For-119 The decision is not taken. Please, Pavlovsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u138	Respectable national MPs, honourable colleagues, are now being torn down by the fact that there is a leak from the Cabinet of Ministers that is preparing bills supposedly for pension reform, pension reform, where there is also an increase in the retirement age of 5 years and restrictions on working pensioners who will put them before the election, whether there is a pension or a salary. The actual rejection of retirement for years, health, and so forth. To appease society, a bill was drafted as a national MP to prevent the deterioration of the pension security of Ukrainian citizens. There was one simple rule proposed in this bill: to put away all of these problems that are causing society -- first of all, to increase the retirement age -- to 1 January 2030. So when the economy gets better, when the new sectors are working in high-tech, then let's do the reform. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, we have not included the matter in the agenda. We have when it's considered. Just a minute. When the issue of the so-called pension reform is considered, appropriate proposals can be made. I ask, no problem, let's solve problems as they arrive or as they come, if correct. Let us not inflame, so that people’s mood toward the New Year’s, let us feel this calmly. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law amending article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on changing the expiration date by adding an additional option to the power generation incentive order from alternative sources]] [[Registration number 7411]] With regard to this bill we had a language for the Conciliation Council meeting, then this idea was supported. The authors Martinenko and Gluschenko. For inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[12:45:15]] For 304 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children. [[on State aid to raise a child from the age of three to the age of eighteen]] The authors are Pavlovski, Laško, Kirilenko. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. It would have been better before we married or married, let's make a decision. Would it be okay? [[12:46:08]] For 121 The decision is not taken. Oleg Lazko for the reasons of the vote, please. From a group of authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In fact, it is a bill aimed at helping the President of Ukraine fulfill his pre-election promises. It is a matter of increasing state aid for children up to the age of three. Today, families, the vast majority of families in Ukraine, are low - income families. They're getting this help at 200-300 bucks a month. You realize that it is impossible to feed a child on this money every month. That is why we have prepared a bill that would give a little more money to these low - income families. Regrettably, there are no members of low - income families in the Supreme Council. That is why they do not vote for this law. Because the problems of families with children who don't have a piece of bread and a penny to buy a child to go to school or give her 20 copies for breakfast at school, to pay for lunch, these problems don't bother the representatives of today's majority in parliament. That's why I propose, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u141	Dear colleagues! Let's move on. It is proposed to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On Priorities to Preventing the Negative Consequences of the Financial Crisis and Amending Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine", the bill's author is our colleague, Sochka. [[on the formation of anti-crisis national food and public medical baskets]] [[Registration number 7130]] [[12:48:15.]] For 139 The decision is not taken. It is suggested that you consider, your fellow Members, the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Law on Collection and Accounting for the Only Social Contribution to National Social Insurance. [[on persons who have chosen a simplified tax system]] [[Registration number 7364]] About getting into the daytime.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u142	We don't have it in the daytime. [[12:49:00]] For a hundred and Decision Not Adopted Dear colleagues, two factions are demanding a recess, I understand, for a statement. Yes, Ivan Grigorovich? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, dear fellows! We have two more questions. Now.() [[B in m in s a l in]] Your Honor, we have an agreement. Dear, distinguished colleagues, please. We made a deal with you. We have two more questions left, but we have practice, if two factions require a break, they can make a statement. We're further discussing the creation of the TSC, and we're successfully completing the meeting. Please! Andrew School will be performing for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u143	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! We were agreed, my exit to the rostrum, the acceptance of the statement by the Yulia Tymoshenko faction - "Fatherhood" by what has started since, not today, but since recently, a powerful repressive campaign of today's state has begun. And to tell you that it's about investigating criminal cases, or wanting to lead someone into clean water, it's all nonsense, it's a desire to persecute other people, it's a desire for a repressive apparatus owned by the state, to destroy the opposition, it's a desire to avenge those people who defended the interests of the state. And the interests of the state cannot change from that of Ukraine; the interests of the state have always been to make the state rich; people live better, not the other way around. So I'm sure that this whole repressive machine is going to work against the opposition. And today, Timoshenko was summoned to the Attorney General's Office just to get her revenge for defending the interests of the state. No matter how much you deny it, it is. The same is true of all other figures. And most importantly, I want to remind you of March 9th. I don’t know if anyone remembers the case. But even now, the Attorney General's office is using conditional motions. This once again confirms that the totalitarian system is returning to Ukraine. In Paris, this is where the head of the Ukrainian delegation in Paris sits, and the Parliamentary Council of Europe in 2003 was first recognized in Ukraine as political prisoners on the issue of March 9. And the president, who has recently visited Brussels and perhaps is going back there, has to be responsible for whether he is restoring the political system in Ukraine or not; whether he will defend the interests of democracy that he is talking about, whether he will protect his environment, which he and he is trying to rob and adopt the Ukrainian state. And actually, those who didn't allow it then won't allow it now. And believe me, no repression will stop the opposition. What doesn't kill us makes us stronger. If you want to destroy the opposition, start killing. You don't get used to it; you don't get used to smashing your heads and throwing them in a well; you don't get used to it, remember the cases of all the journalists killed in Kuchma's time, because not just one George Gongadeze is there. So I emphasize, you want to destroy the opposition, prepare for the opposition to be killed physically, because other repressions didn't stop us then, they won't stop us now, and they'll never stop us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, now. Well, we'll put it to a vote, wait. So now it's going to be a turn, and we're going to look at the questions that were before. Dear colleagues, the draft Decree establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on investigating the fact that State institutions have been blocking the electoral process of political opposition. [[Registration number 7119]] I'd like to discuss the issue with a reduced procedure. [[12:53:25]] For 223 Decision taken. Please, who will report from the faction? Please, Vladimir Makeenko. No, no. Dear colleagues, I ask you all the time that we have a meeting of the Conciliation Council, the insistence, the letter that you don't want to be considered. There's a committee head, a project. Please, let's take a look. Dear colleagues, please, head of the committee. The point is, Bill 13.09. The motivation was, if the committee doesn't consider a month, then we'll put it to a vote. As you proceed with your request, listen to your request and offer, and they have placed it in the order of the day. You propose to move, I'll put you to the vote on the transfer, no problem. Please don't stop me from working. Please listen to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u145	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We are informed that the committee did not consider this draft Supreme Council regulation at its meeting, but we note that paragraph 3 of this draft defines the number of members of the Provisional Commission of Inquiry of the 7 Ukrainian National Deputies. At the same time, her personal composition, apart from the head of the commission, is not available in the draft decree. However, the committee had written proposals to include members of the Temporary Investigation Commission of members of the MPs' factions, Timoshenko, the Mother of the People's Deputies of Podgorny and Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense, National Deputy Koval. And also the National Deputy Crnvolenko, whose representatives are not in the draft. There is also no candidate for election as deputy chairman of the commission, which is a violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. [[Article 85, Part 4, paragraph 3]] It should also be noted that the name of the interim commission of inquiry and the task already contains a legal assessment of the actions of state institutions such as those already established, namely the investigation of the fact that State institutions have been blocked from participating in the electoral process of political opposition. This initiator of the draft regulation does not define exactly what state institutions and unnamed persons may be involved in such actions. In view of the fact that the proposed draft decree included in the weekly agenda of plenary meetings, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may consider it and, during its consideration, specify the personal composition of the commission, select the deputy head of the commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, such an offer. There's two. I can if I insist. Now, one minute. insist, I will put to the vote on the postponement of the consideration of the matter. If not, when it comes to the question of voting on the TSC hearing, it will be proposed that the composition of the commission be provided with a proportional representation depending on the composition of the factions. And with that confirmation, I think you'll agree. [[Because 7 is not clear what 7, the minimum should be 9]] But when it comes to such a serious problem and the very formulation of the title of the decree already contains a factual accusation. I've asked my respectable colleagues to hold on to this so that when we formulate the subject of the commission's work, we can already pass the verdict. We need to transfer the materials to the Attorney General's Office, not create a temporary commission of inquiry. So I'm going to put it to a vote in this sequence now, if there's no objection. On the transfer of the draft decision. [[Registration number 7119]] Please be sure. [[12:57:29]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Then the second sentence, please sign up for the presentation, your distinguished colleagues. Well, we're on the same page: two for, two for, two for against. Names of the national MPs, please. Valerius Calchenko. Yuri Odarchenko, right? Please, Yuri Odarchenko, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! An extremely important question has been raised that affects the freedom of our citizens to choose and be elected to state authorities and local self - government. One of the basic principles of democracy is the prohibition on the State from interfering with intra-party activity and ensuring equal opportunities for representatives of power and opposition to elections when the people are entitled to decide who they want to see in such a role. In the Kyiv region, in the Lviv region, raiding schemes have been applied to the Parentishkina party, which has led to the removal of Fatherland from the electoral process at all. Instead of ensuring the rights of the opposition, the state intervened in domestic activities. Not members of the party, but officials in the administration of justice decided who and where to run, not members of the party, but the state appointed managers. Honorary colleagues, too, were constantly abused by the fact that all the territorial commissions were located in the premises of executions and abbeys, to which the unhindered access was restricted only to the authorities. As a result, the Party of the Regions almost everywhere received the first issue of the list. And where I didn't get it, the registration of all those who dared to file the documents of the previously overpowered force was canceled, and the Party of the Regions was assigned the first number. These facts indicate a dangerous trend. The state wants to control the party's activities. If we don't stop now, in a few years, we'll be agreeing with the managers of the HSS, and we'll be putting out candidates only with the permission of the President's Administration. I realize that some have already enjoyed this situation, but the people of Ukraine do not want to tolerate it. This investigator. I'll be with you in a minute. This commission of inquiry should reveal similar facts, make specific recommendations in order to bring these political raiders and counterfeiters to justice. It doesn't have to happen again. I'm asking you to support the project and I'm pointing out to everyone who's here that people who don't support the search for the truth have obviously been working on the facts of falsification themselves, and they're afraid that their devices will become known to everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I then put to the vote a motion for the adoption of a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But at the fourth point, to say that the composition of the TSK is shaped proportionally to the number of fractions. We will no longer change the name so that there will be no charges. Dear colleagues, have you got the offer? That in point four, we're saying that the composition of the commission is shaped according to the proportional composition. proportional to the number of fractions. And accordingly, if a decision is made, each faction will submit its own candidatures according to established calculations. Is there no objection? With this in mind, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7119]] [[13:01:59]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Now, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, if you make another decision, we'll be there. Dear colleagues, I now announce for consideration the draft Decree establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on investigating the violations of the rights of entrepreneurs and the unlawful persecution of economic operators by executive authorities. [[Registration number 7246]] Similarly, I would like to ask you to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:02:45]] For 271 Decision taken. Reporter: Natala Royal, please. And the co-reporter is the head of the Regulatory Committee, Vladimir MacKeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u149	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Today we are considering a draft decree establishing an interim investigation commission to investigate infringements of the rights of entrepreneurs and unlawful persecution of economic actors by the executive authorities. Everyone knows that recent pressure and harassment by the executive authorities have increased in Ukraine. Violations of current State control and oversight legislation have become widespread, and the number of illegal criminal prosecutions in the area of entrepreneurship has increased. The increased powers of supervisors are massive, criminal cases open by thousands, and units reach the courts. Not only does this have a negative impact on the country's investment attractiveness, discourages investors, reduces our country's competitiveness, but it also eliminates tens of thousands of enterprises in the country, eliminates tens of thousands of jobs, and this is followed by the growth of the shadow economy. Because people understand the legal field today, it is not possible to work by law, because there is an instrument of government raiding and redistribution of property throughout the country. And if we recently thought that back in the 21st century to go back to the 1990s, during the cruise coupons, gangs, inflation would be impossible, today, more than ever, we see that coming back to the 90s is going to become our tomorrow. We therefore propose that an investigative commission be established, where the main issue will be: to address and address the facts of the violations, and to address the causes and investigations resulting from such a State survey. Therefore, we insist that the commission be organized, and if today the majority believe that it is not a State policy and that it is a single case, let us create this commission and prove it to the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u150	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u151	and prove to the world that in Ukraine it is not a state party, nor a state position to eliminate the middle class. And if we see that this bill is not supported, we will be aware that these processes will only deteriorate further, and that this is indeed the destruction of the middle class in Ukraine as an element of public policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think there's only one suggestion that we should prove nothing to the world. Let's organize a normal life in the country. Because we prove something to someone, we want to like it, and there is no life in the country. Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u153	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable national deputies, is informed that the committee did not consider a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of infringements of the rights of entrepreneurs and the unlawful persecution of economic operators by the executive authorities of the Ukrainian People’s Deputy, number 7246. At the same time, however, we note that the number of members of the interim commission of inquiry in the draft decree is determined by nine Ukrainian national deputies. In doing so, its personal composition is limited to four persons: from the MP factions of the "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" and "The Yulia Timoshenko Block" – "The Fatherland". There is no written agreement between the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko, the Fatherland, and the representatives of this faction are included in the interim commission of inquiry. In addition, the quota for the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko – the “Batakščina” – is exceeded by one representative. And the MP's faction of the Party of the Regions has the right to propose to a committee of four representatives instead of the three predicted. In view of the fact that the proposed draft decree is included in the weekly agenda of plenary meetings, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may consider it during its consideration, clarify the personal composition of the commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Andrew Pavlovsky and Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u155	Andrew Pavlovsky, “BUT – “Fatherhood”. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the stated decision to establish a commission of inquiry in view of the fact that there is indeed a violation of the rights of entrepreneurs and the unlawful persecution of business operators by executive authorities. And not to go too far, but to keep in mind the events that were at Maidan Independence in connection with the mass protests by entrepreneurs against the cannibalized Tax Code. Then the authorities compromised, promised concessions, but promised not to persecute the organizers, the entrepreneurs who protested. And what do we see now? There has been some misunderstanding of the issue of the trotarian terrorists. People are being persecuted for allegedly damaging a granite tile while they were standing on the ground. And there are 50 people on this case, including our fellow deputies Volintz, Ostap Semierak and Yuri Grimchuk. They've found each other. Easy. We've found ourselves some sort of drone terrorist. So soon we won't be able to stand by the President's or Kabmin's Administration, breathe that air, and they'll be doing this. So I suggest we support this decision. What's more, when entrepreneurs who were active were on the ground, they're being tested, starting with the tax police, calling them to the SBU. There are other inspection bodies. All of this has to be done, if we are really a democratic state and a person, if we express political views, then we can't prosecute it for this, if it's an entrepreneur, in the economic sphere, not allow it to develop business. So the facts are a lot, and I've given them to you. Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u156	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u157	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. We are witnessing that it is now those thieves who have ripped apart factories, factories, and such mammals that have also owned factories, factories, mines, especially during the years of orange leadership, especially during the period of the premiere of Julia Timoshenko. Now they want to hide under some subcommission and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! You don't have to lie to the people of Ukraine again. We need to calm down. Today, finally, President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine will help the people of Ukraine find the truth: who stole and who stole Ukraine. That's why we don't have to be afraid. I think the investigating authorities will be fine. They'll see who stole it, what they stole it for, what they owned the milkshake mine for, and so on and so forth. And that's why it's going to happen. The people will, the laborers will become, the workers will work again in peace, their souls will not be hurt, and so on. So don't create any commissions, Your Honor, but allow the government, the law enforcement authorities, to take a quiet look, to conduct an inventory in Ukraine. And then we'll know what patriots are fighting so hard to not pay taxes today, the Tax Code was bad, bringing people to the streets with truth and lies and stuff. All step by step will be in place. And so, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you not to waste your time. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I propose, by contrast, that when a vote is put to the vote, that the composition of the TSC be determined in proportion to the number of factions. If a decision is taken, the accounts will be made by a regulatory committee and the factions will be submitted according to their quota of representatives. No objections? In view of this, I am voting on the proposal for a draft decision. [[Registration number 7246]] The name of the decree is on the board. Please identify yourself. [[13:12:47]] For-138 The decision is not taken. One more question, dear colleagues, one more minute. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. This is the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Ordinance on ensuring that the social problems of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster are taken into account in the preparation of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. Author. One minute and we'll vote. Light microphone. Dear colleagues, please. There are moments where it's better to put on a vote than a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u159	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support and include in the agenda a draft decision. The point is that the decision proposes to include in the budget the following year expenditure on citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Unfortunately, for many years the Civil Protection Act has not been implemented, Chernobyl has no right to medical treatment, and sanitation and the purchase of medicines do not have the necessary funds, and pensions do not have enough. And so I propose this determination to settle these issues so that the people who give their lives, so that you and I can sit in this room and work for the state, so that these people are provided enough to support themselves and their families. So I ask you to vote, to put this bill into the agenda. And in the budget next year, add a lot of money to solve the social problems of Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. That's what we're putting in the agenda, Vladimir Alexanderovich, we're not looking at. The author, he was right. Dear colleagues, please, please, please. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of a Decision to ensure that the social problems of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster are taken into account in the preparation of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2011. [[Registration number 7430]] [[13:15:18]] For-160. The decision is not taken. I have an offer. Now, one minute, by the factions. I have this proposal to form problems that were violated in the draft regulation, as recommendations, as proposals for the budget. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Block Timoshenko, BUT – Fatherland 99, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 30, Communists – 26, People's Party – 1, non-fractional – 4. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u161	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for the opportunity. My colleagues, I just want to remind you what's going on with the Chernobyl liquidators today. The law that is, you know, doesn't put a penny of money under it, or a hole that's not enough for everyone. People go to the courts of the first instance. They are condemned for their complete right. Instead of paying them that money, Kiev sends out a letter saying that you do whatever you can to make sure that they don’t get paid. As a result, all appeals are filed and so forth. Because of this, I am convinced that it is necessary to do so. And the last. I would ask the Party of the Regions to always give the floor to Sulkowski. He's so uplifting your party's ratings that he needs to speak at all in the morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-12-15-m0.u162	Dear National Deputies! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. After lunch, work on the committees. I would like to ask the questions that we have discussed today, including with regard to the budgetary process, to make proposals to the Committee on Budgetary Questions. Thank you. Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its plenary work from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
