ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. At the same time, invite the deputies to the session room, as we will now have to vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:16]] Cards were registered, I emphasize, with cards in the 414 national deputies’ session hall. Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of the issues scheduled for Tuesday, September 21. There was a request for committees to consider the issues that we included in the agenda at the morning session. Because they are. The committee will now provide material on a bill to prevent circulation in Ukraine of dangerous products, and we will consider it. As for the bill, the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2010 is registration number 7142, I ask the committee to consider, on Thursday we must determine the decision. Just like another bill that applies to “Naftogaz of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the restriction of national regulation of economic activity is being discussed. [[Registration number 6696, 6696-1]] There is a request to consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please, I'll put you to the vote. Please support this proposal. [[16:02:53]] For-183 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Miroshnichenko, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Natala Kraljevska. Please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u2	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of Regions, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine is introducing a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to restrict national regulation of economic activity. The purpose of the bill is to maximize the State’s contribution to the establishment and implementation of entrepreneurial activities. This is primarily due to the fact that since the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, there has been a negative trend towards an increase in the number of unwarranted licences that have led to the inhibition of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the rise in corruption and unwarranted checks. In addition, most licensed activities are regulated in parallel by a large number of standards, permits, certificates, technical conditions, and so forth. In connection with this draft law, it is envisaged that the licensing of 23 types of activities that do not involve State security, human life and health, environmental degradation, as well as other public regulation measures such as government standards, building standards and regulations, technical conditions, international quality standards, and so on. The bill provides for the abolition of the licensing of commercial activities that are subject to other forms of government regulation. In particular, to find and extract useful fossils from genealogical sites that are of national importance, since the subject of farming needs to be allowed to use the nadrama to carry out the activity. The same is true of aviation chemical work. To begin these tasks.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u3	Please allow the President to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, given the time limit, I would like to say that there are a lot of applications that we make with you about the need to improve the business climate in Ukraine. The president suggests that as many as 23 types of farming activities be freed from additional, such as licensing efforts. I ask you to support this bill in the first reading, to work it out for the second and to adopt it as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u5	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Natalia Královska, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Since you'll be both in the bill and in the committee, you need more time, right? Four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, we all remember that, over the past two years, the Committee has been trying to make every effort to reduce the number of activities to be licensed. And we were able to keep our first victory back in late 2009, when by Law 5235 we were able to reduce the five activities that were subject to licensing. [[authors of Royal, Wheels, Chechetov, Kasikiv, Leapina]] Subsequently, Bill 6153 was drafted and adopted on 18 May 2010. The project proposed a reduction of 14 additional activities to be licensed. To date, Bill 6153 is fully ready for second reading, and we also hope that it will be considered soon. At the same time, the Supreme Council had considered a number of bills proposing to reduce the number of licences, but unfortunately they had not been supported. Today, we are considering two bills: Bill 6696 and 6696-1 and both of them relate to the reduction in the number of licences. There is no doubt that licensing is an essential part of the system of relations between States and business. And in Ukraine, unfortunately, the system of interaction and cooperation, which has been successful in most developed countries, has become a vehicle to raise money from entrepreneurs. Today, more than 100 activities are licensed in the country. More than 44 public authorities have issued licences. Just think about those numbers! After all, tens of thousands of broken business projects and thousands of corrupters are behind this. The licensing system is extremely complex. It is regulated by more than 20 sectoral laws that have a licensing rule. In such circumstances, the licensing system is one of the main barriers to business climate development in the country. And, of course, it is not surprising that such a system does not involve investment in the country, that we are one of the most recent competitiveness ratings and on all business criteria in Ukraine. There are only two criteria worldwide on which the licensing system will work and relevant documents will be issued. First criterion. This is a potential danger to society, the citizen and the State. Second criterion. This is access to limited resources. That is, in both the first and the second cases, licensing acts as a support mechanism for public policy and protects the interests of citizens, in particular society in general. It protects people's right to subsoil or any other restriction, limited resources. It protects the safety of citizens from random or simply unconscious entrepreneurs who could engage in potentially dangerous activities. In Ukraine, about 30 per cent of licences do not meet these criteria. The purpose of these bills is to reduce the amount and allow entrepreneurs to breathe freely, taking away opportunities for corruption. We talked a lot about this in Parliament, as I had already set an example at first. Unfortunately, however, the train is still there. I hope that today's vote will set a positive precedent, regardless of the authorship of these bills, and we will adopt a principled approach to reducing the number of licences that exist in the country today. The Presidential Bill proposes to reduce 23 types of licences. By the law, I'm the author of five more licenses. Most of the activities referred to in the bills are identical. The Committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 6696 and to take into account certain provisions of draft 6696-1. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion: two for, two for, two against. Please welcome Yuri Romanović Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u8	My fellow Members, now you and I need to determine from the two bills that are proposed to us what should be the basis for working so that the efforts made by the Supreme Council by the President of Ukraine are made in the form of a law. Of course, in introducing a bill by the President of Ukraine, I think it's more prepared, because the President has done a very thorough and profound job of addressing many entrepreneurs, many politicians, in order to isolate among all the bills some of the most balanced initiatives, and those 23 types, I stress, in this bill even more species are offered to exempt economic activity from taxation, are offered to make those that are not subject to licensing. That's why I'm convinced. I think we need to adopt the law. And among those bills that are now being proposed, the president's is the most prepared in terms of his second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u9	Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinsky, please give your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinski, “The People’s Party”. Respectful colleagues say that when foreign direct investment is scarce in the country, it is not an accident. When it's said that in Ukraine, the business climate is something that, according to the international hierarchy, we're in the second hundredths -- it's true, and everybody knows it. The very existence of the permissive system and the dominance, the domination of the permissive system over the system, is evidence of an immature, unimaginable and unsuspecting economy. And I want to be honest with you, if the bill would suggest that not 23 types of farming should be dislicted, but 46, maybe that would be too little. Because the question is not only that the more licenses and licenses, the more corruption, the more beneficial the soil for corruption. The other question is that the very existence of dozens and dozens of licensing and licensing systems leads to an uncompetitive environment. And today foreign investment is largely not coming to Ukraine because foreign owners, those who would like to invest money in Ukraine, say that you have an uncompetitive environment. Because it's clear that licenses and licenses depend on ownership or interest in power, first and secondly, on the specific and real interest of those officials who issue these licenses. Any bill that deprives the economy of economic activity, the economy from the domination of the permissive system needs to be supported. And in this case, I think that both one and the other bills can in principle be taken as a basis. If the President's bill goes first, there are no obstacles to accepting it in the first reading and working on the second reading. Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u12	I mean, not 23, but 46 types of farm activity can be calmly, completely calmly, and in the long run, without licensing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u13	Yeah, it's a microphone. Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u14	Xenia Leapina, political party “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, we will support the bill. I also hold onto the idea that it doesn't matter whose authorship here, which is important, what result we're achieving. It's a long-awaited result, a reduction and a significant reduction in the type of licensing. I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, in the same room, the same composition of the Supreme Council already lacked the political will twice to substantially reduce the license list, unfortunately. I would be very happy if we now take the President's bill as a basis, and this will somehow oblige the coalition's political forces to support this substantial reduction in the number of activities licensed. I am convinced that this will be a very useful step, first of all, for the entrepreneurial climate in Ukraine. And I also want to point out that the main thing is not to get this cut into.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u15	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u16	It's literally one phrase. It's an alias so it doesn't pour out. So that the licensing conditions will not be broken down into tens and tens. We will monitor this, and our comments will be directed to the second reading so that it does not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u17	Please turn on Sergei Shevchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u18	Sergey Shevchuk, “BUT - Fatherland” faction. Indeed, this question has been raised for more than a year at the meetings of the Supreme Council. The MPs did not agree that it was possible to afford such a liberal attitude towards activities that are sometimes dangerous to the health, life of Ukrainian citizens, for the environment, but have been found a way out — the authorship of the President of Ukraine. Well, there's a way out. Obviously, this law is voted in favour, and all responsibility now lies with the President as the author of this bill for the spread in Ukraine of pesticides, agrochemicals, anyone making melioration, no responsibility in the tourism sector -- total liberalisation. It is as if we are doing so well, and we are law - abiding citizens. Bravo! Bravo! Go, coalition of capitalists and communists! You're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Is there anyone else who insists? None. I'm just going to finish. It's very beautiful to wash your hands, but six months ago, they passed appropriate bills, they asked them to accept and vote, and now let's complain to each other. Give people time to forget something already. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal: the adoption of the bill as the basis of the draft law is the President's bill to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts to restrict national regulation of economic activity. [[Registration number 6696]] Please vote. [[16:18:33]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[on property and income declarations]] [[Registration numbers: 7083 and 7083-1]] Suggestion: To consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:19:15.]] For 197 Decision taken. Reporters: Ukrainian National Deputies Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov and Alexander Vilenovich Cnervolenko. Correspondent is Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government Sergey Volodymyrovich Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u20	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! A party of regions is the flesh of the Ukrainian people. Therefore, we always listen to the public's opinion, to the opinion of the people, to the views of Ukrainian politicians, to the opinion of the opposition, to the views of international experts. And that's our strength: that sometimes we're not afraid to admit that somewhere we might have done something wrong, somewhere we haven't listened, somewhere we haven't discussed. But on the other hand, I would like to say that the bill, which was initiated, was aimed at reducing the bureaucratic procedure in the drafting of candidate documents to local authorities, particularly to rural and rural authorities. But since such naked criticism and attempts have begun to cast a shadow on the knitting, to bring to light the fair reputation of the Party of the Regions for the fact that the Party of the Regions, with the adoption of the law and the repeal of the declarations, is one of the documents necessary for the registration of candidates for local authorities, thus contributing to the entry of dirty capital into the authorities. Well, I'm sorry, we didn't pursue that goal, and we wanted to break down the bill. But if that's what happened, when we heard that kind of resentment, I'm officially saying that we're making this bill, we don't really need it, it was for the people. But if you think so. But first of all, it's gonna be the little parties. A strong party will address these issues, with declarations will help, and there are consultants to fill them out. And here are the little parties, they're going to face the problem, yes. Therefore, in this situation, I make a formal statement. We have heard you, but not your criticism, but just your political closeness. We have heard, but nevertheless, so that the dirt does not fall on our shoulders, so as not to ensnare the fair reputation of the Party of the Regions, I am withdrawing this bill and asking to vote in favour of the withdrawal, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u21	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Alexander Blackwill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u22	Dear friends, there are three such novels in my bill that I think are significantly improving this bill. The first is that the law that we passed is one that is very bad. The chapter in article 10 seems to be the third paragraph to say that if, for example, someone accepting membership documents. The candidates, or candidates for the territorial or divisional commission, will not like the documents, so they refuse and the decision is not made. The point is that any person who accepts a document without a commission's decision can reject any candidate's papers. It's a completely undemocratic norm that can be used in commissions just to film the candidates needed in advance. So there's a proposition, this. Yeah, so, and if the decision isn't made, that means there's nothing to sue in court. In this way it is impossible to restore justice and register a candidate. So I think that's the first thing I have to do is cancel, and this is what the committee agreed to by recommending that we take this as a basis. The second thing that the committee agreed to and recommended was that it should be taken away from the absolutely bureaucratic rule that each candidate to the deputy should submit a duly certified copy of the registration certificate of the centre that sent it. It's an absolute mess, because any commission that accepts documents from a candidate to a deputy or from a candidate to a commission of another level, it knows which organisations are registered or registered in the area, the area, the city, or any other political party organization. If they need to be clarified, it can take y.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u23	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u24	the appropriate level. Then it can be taken very easily and this is stipulated by this law. Therefore, it is foolish to duplicate unnecessary bureaucratic concerns for candidates. Well, finally, the income declaration, I think it's not the subject of this law, it adds nothing to the fight against corruption, but rather, it makes it possible to make a variety of abuses when considering these declarations. This law is not a law to combat corruption, its object is quite different. So by forcing people to make declarations, we don't decide anything, because those who win and make an oath and then fill out the declaration, all the others will just waste their time. So I ask you to vote on my law in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u25	Yes, thank you. Please have a seat. Sergei Volodymyrovich Gordijenko is the secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u26	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! The commission committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed the draft legislation at its meeting on September 15. Based on the fact that one of the authors is withdrawing his bill, I would like to stop on the bill of my colleague the Blacksmith. He introduced the bill, a national MP, in his speech. I would like to say that the scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusions makes a number of remarks to these bills, noting above all that the refusal to declare revenue by candidates for election positions does not correspond to the general trend of legislation to increase the fight against corruption. On the basis of the discussion, the Committee of the Supreme Council, by a majority of votes, reached a conclusion on the draft law of the Crnvoluntary Chamber: to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its first reading, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime, Local Councils and Rural, Village Heads, registration number 7083-1, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Blackwill, to accept as a basis, excluding from it the provisions governing the submission of a declaration on income and property by candidates. On the basis of the electoral process, the committee proposes to shorten the draft bill and accept it today as a basis for finalizing it on Friday, September 24. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u27	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion if you need to. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Anatoly Matvienko. Alexander Bondar later.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u28	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” block. Dear colleagues, I would like to respond to the replica that came out of this rostrum today from the Party of Regions, which is made of flesh with the Ukrainian people. First, I like that we finally read the Constitution and speak not for the people of Ukraine, but for the Ukrainian people. And I hope that this is a turning point, the realization that we must serve, indeed, our Ukrainian people, we must give our full strength to make the Ukrainian people equal to the better European states of the world. And I don't think we're ever going to have any more similar laws like language or similar agreements like that in Kharkiv. I welcome that statement, and I want to give her a round of applause. It's about a bill that's currently under consideration. It seems to me that the author can't withdraw his bill, it can only make the session a vote. That is why we today have the right and the duty to vote in favour of two bills. Now essentially. I think that, really, everything that we've overloaded as the Electoral Law should be improved today and we need to create conditions for democratic transparent elections. Regarding the declaration, it seems to me that I support here both the Committee's opinion and the authors' position that this is not the norm of this law. We obviously need to introduce appropriate standards into the Law on Local Self-Government, so that the respective levels can be appointed, the officers we choose have made their declarations every year, and we can see how they give their strength and energy and what they have as a result. They don't rob communities' last property, they actually multiply it. And in this law, I think it's really unnecessary, and so I would support the idea of voting in favour of withdrawing these standards as a condition for registration of our candidates. And I support the Blackwolf project, and I'd like to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u29	Olga Bodnar. Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u30	The first thesis I'd like to point out is that we've been in the electoral process since September 11. And if we considered it necessary to radically subject electoral legislation, obviously this should have been done, not with regard to these standards, but with regard to a series of norms that today do not allow for the start of an electoral campaign at all. Let me give you an example. The voted rule is that in the majority part of the election to the district councils, one-maned districts within the administrative-territorial units, i.e., conditionally, one mandate is the area and the city of district subordination. Given that the Law on Local Self-Government provides other grounds for the establishment of a quantitative parameter of district councils, we have district councils that have determined three deputies from the area, there are district councils that have determined two deputies, and a small number of district councils that have one deputy at a time. Now the question is, how can we do three districts in one-manded district in Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, or some council? I can give you a lot of examples like this. Therefore, if this law were to be brought into conformity, it would have to be brought into line with the principled standards. I think we should only act now by explaining to the Central Election Commission, because once we start 10 days before the election campaign, it's going to end badly. Another thesis. I'm a firm opponent in putting serious officials on the line. Today, the country’s head in the Kyiv region is sometimes more serious than some national deputies sitting there. The village head, the city head, the deputy of the Supreme Council of Crimea, how come they shouldn't file a statement of income? What are we going to compare? Here they came, he became the head of the country under Kiev, and he came out of there a million dollars, and then they were looking for him. So I'm a firm opponent in making the income declaration rule go away. So I think that two bills should be rejected and acted within the framework of current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u31	Please, Yuri Carmazin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u32	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we be today? Obviously, in the first case where Chechtov realized that it would not be possible to clean up the application of a declaration, it would contribute to corruption. Apparently he did the right thing by revoking his bill, and he's entitled to it. And another case. What should we do, whether we accept the bill or not? If you and I remove the standards from our colleague's bill that he is a Blacksmith, I mean, that he proposed that we cancel the declarations, we will do the right thing, because the Supreme Council determines what the concept bill will be like in the first reading. Conceptually, I propose to remove the rule from the bill, which was passed by the national MP, Crnvolenko, after the exception.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u33	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u34	Thank you, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. It's about excluding the standard that the National MP Crnvoluntarily proposed in his project to refuse to declare revenue for election positions, and then, in this case, adopt the bill that he proposed. And I think that my colleague Tomenko will agree with me because it improves the bill, it doesn't oblige a person to bring every deputy witness that nobody needs, copies, print them, bring them, don't bring them, give them the opportunity to put them in. So let's delete by one vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u35	Thank you. All right, good fellows. Dear colleagues, let's do this now. I'll put it to a vote and if the Supreme Council accepts one of the documents, then we'll say what to delete and what to leave. Is there no objection? So I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on draft law, registration number 70. The thing is, we don't have a right to take it off right now. Dear colleagues, well, let me put it this way. One minute!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u36	We have to call it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u37	He can't call it off anymore because the deadline's over. Now we can make a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it was a proposal by our colleague of the People's Deputies, Mikhail Chechtov, to withdraw his bill from consideration. I'm putting this motion to a vote, this is registration number 7083. Please vote. [[16:35:03]] For 239. The bill was removed. Bill 7083 remained, the author of Crnvolenko. Blackwolf's microphone, maybe he'll take it off too.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u38	Alexander Blackwolf, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear friends, there is some misunderstanding. And once again, I want to say that, first of all, the law is made up of three parts. And there's a proposal for the committee to accept in the first reading, and on the second reading, to rule out where the declarations are. I agree with that. We can do this, but not in the first reading. With regard to the same declarations. And once again, I want to emphasize that people who hold the position of city, rural, rural head, in any case, when they take office, they fill out declarations. And it's not a subject of the Anti-Corruption Act, once again. Well, different laws can, you can pass the Agriculture Act and regulate the country's health services, but it's better in the Medical Act. So it is here. So we just force people to run with the papers in vain instead of doing the election campaign. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. I'd like to make a statement. Registration number 7083-1. [[16:36:58]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, if there were at least 150 men, that would be 18. It is quite clear that there will be no support. The bill was rejected. I am announcing a draft law on the non-inclusion of dangerous products in Ukraine. [[Registration number 7094]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Dear colleagues, once again, it was suggested that we consider it as a reduced procedure. I have to put this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. [[16:37:55]] For 186 I'm sorry, dear colleagues! Reporter: Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich, Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The reporter is Natalia Kraljevska. I was hot in here.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u40	We're working with the opposition today. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You can see that today we're looking at a second bill called to improve the quality of entrepreneurship, to protect Ukrainian citizens from dangerous products. And the President of Ukraine, responding to the needs expressed by citizens, entrepreneurs, experts, is trying, through his resources as President, to propose to the Supreme Council to consider and adopt extremely important laws. In the Ukrainian Law, a bill to prevent circulation in Ukraine of dangerous products is about the need to establish legal and organizational principles for the non-inclusion of dangerous products in Ukraine, except food, medical supplies and other products, whose safety requirements are regulated by special laws. In fact, it is a matter of introducing technical regulation standards already in force in the European Union. And a number of measures have been taken to secure us with you, all of Ukraine's citizens from the circulation of those dangerous products that, or products that unfortunately we still have in circulation. The task of the project is to improve the level of consumer protection of product safety, to ensure public access to necessary information on product safety, to strengthen the responsibilities of operators to enter into circulation and to distribute safe products on the market. This bill is balanced, to our belief. It's supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. There are favorable reactions from the expert environment. That's why he's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u41	Please give us a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u42	So I invite you, colleagues, to adopt it as a basis and thus give us the opportunity to resolve this problem legislatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u43	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Royal Natalia Jurijovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this morning this bill was included on the agenda. 15 minutes ago, we received the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office, which contained more than four sheets of detailed text and conclusion: following the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of Treatment in Ukraine of Dangerous Products, to return to the finalization, taking into account those comments and proposals. The bill was indeed sufficiently controversial and its basic norm needed. And the fact that we have more than 30 per cent of the counterfeit and unquality treatment in the internal market today, and what needs to be changed and built, and European practice, requires market surveillance and, in principle, reforming the entire product control system today, and working here really much. But we are making a slight mistake, as a draft Ukrainian law on market surveillance and product control, which contains a number of terms mentioned in the bill, was needed for the beginning. We have now put the situation on our heads and we are first adopting a bill that was later adopted, which is complementary to the previous bill. But despite all these shortcomings, I hope that we will consider Bill 6694 soon. The Committee considered the bill and suggested that it be adopted on first reading and that all the necessary standards should then be settled in the course of the consideration of Bill 6694. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Katerina Vaschuk, please. To the rostrum or from a place like yours? Out of the way, mic. Then there will be Jaroslav Jódzik in place of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, perhaps today, along with all the important anti-crisis laws, financial laws, social protection, one of the most important topics is to protect our population from inequitable products, inequity food, inequity other kinds of products. You know how many reproaches we listen to when we take people for inadequacies, for inadequacies in food. We feel it all ourselves, buying products in markets, buying products in stores, and so forth. But, fellow believers, we must not rush into adopting this law in two readings. Nevertheless, every rule needs to be weighed and we need to think about what we need to give to all the regulatory rules of the rights that we have to give to the financial weights. Today, without overcrowding, we're not going to define quality products. Today, we will not be able to enforce any law without the opportunity to expand this subject throughout Ukraine. We've already adopted many laws in this room that regulate the kind of quality of produce, and in the end we've opened a wider door for counterfeiters. And I want to go again today to all those who control the production from.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u47	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u48	Who controls the production on the borders? Who gives permits at auctions? The left-hand side of this product is going from abroad. 30 percent of the person’s health depends on what he eats. So let us deal with this subject with special consideration and respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u49	Jaroslav Jojik, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u50	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In general, while welcoming the general direction of adapting our Ukrainian legislation to EU legislation, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the next two points. All of us may remember how the Tax Code was considered in its own time: On one day 700 pages of text were distributed, and on the other day the bill was already under consideration. Also today we have a bill to consider and manage everything. A process of safe production in Ukraine. Nevertheless, it is literally quite recent. Just the conclusion of a committee on this point, which completely prevents a qualified analysis of this bill. Next. Article 2(3) of this bill establishes a list of types of products not covered by the law, including food products, food additives, food additives, food additives and auxiliary materials for their processing, animal products, alcohol, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, services and works that do not meet the requirements of Directive 2001-95. The EU on general production safety. The restrictions will lead to the fact that the safety requirements of a large high-risk product nomenclature will not be excluded from future market surveillance at all, i.e. for quite a long time a large number of high-risk products will not be covered by market surveillance. The bill does not take into account the need for a transitional period for implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u51	Turn on Jaroslav Jojik's microphone. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u52	Unforeseeable need for a transitional period for the implementation, development and implementation of technical regulations for specific types of products. This is why there is a proposal: If this bill is introduced, not as of January 1, 2011, but as a minimum, even as of January 1, 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u53	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction. Just a minute! Bondarenko's coming. It's a BUT faction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u54	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, I think every one of you sometimes, watching TV, doesn't go past those programs that are on several channels today, and especially Mr. Drubich about quality. When I looked at one transmission, I realized that we had nothing of any quality in any field — meat production, dairy, and so forth. At the same time, today there is some haste about this very important bill. And what he's chasing is, he's said to be in the neck: he's been placed in the morning in the daytime, he's looking at four pages of expert management's comments after lunch -- it's a sign that someone's lobbying. And my colleague has just named a whole list of products that are excluded from this bill, and they can ventilate freely, as they say in the economy of Ukraine, no one will pay any attention to it. We're a special country. We're living in a radiation-risk zone today, a lot of products are being produced in areas where they've fallen, there, particles since that accident -- and nobody's checking today. We have an extremely large number of pesticides, herbicides, defoliants, which have been left over since Soviet times, are actively used in gardening and farming. I think it's a very important thing today that you can't get past. I believe that the import of large quantities of products from foreign countries, such as the East, is made with components that are extremely dangerous to human health, melanin, and so forth. She's got to warn us. So I'd like to put this bill on re-reading today, prepare it more carefully, give us a chance to get to know it. More than that, what I'm trying to say is that the last visit to the People's Republic of China by our leadership shows that we're going to be bringing in a lot of products from there, especially Greece and much more. China, which has a population of one billion 250 million, produces more than a pop.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u55	Give me a chance to finish the thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u56	So I'd like to ask you, dear friends, not to rush into this bill, he's not carrying any politics, but business let's throw it away and we'll accept it, we'll pass it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u57	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, one minute, and then Gregory Smitush, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u58	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you carefully to listen to me for these forty seconds. First. This bill is specifically called upon to continue importing everything that is imported into Ukraine, but it is completely unpunished. That's what happened. We were planning on doing it. I agree with the conclusions now expressed by my fellow MPs, both Jojik and Bondarenko, because they did not say that there was no provision in the first article of the second law. It is written that only products whose technical regulations do not set specific requirements are distributed. And you and I haven't funded these technical regulations for two years, we just don't finance them, they don't exist. They're in Europe, but we don't have them, that's the first. The other one. The law does not extend to food, additives, animal products, food, and so on. What are we doing? And the third. This law is binding, see article 3 and beyond.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u59	Well, please finish, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u60	I'm done. Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Honorable national MPs, this law related to the Law on Market Surveillance and Product Control, must go together and be accepted together, but they are broken in time because they think they will swallow the first part and then swallow the second part. This cannot be done separately, this law is designed to protect the rights of our consumers. We're not joining the European Union yet, first of all, even in an association, and second of all, we're not a wastebasket of the European Union, and I would like not to be seen as a garbage disposal. And for that we're not an intellectual wastebasket, we're able to understand that between the sections of this law. The previous law was introduced by the previous presidents, where there was a lot of serious lobbying, and very large finances were involved. We're moving out. I propose that this law be rejected for rereading the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u61	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! I will personally support this bill in the first reading for the following reasons. Well, first of all, this problem is in our society and in our country, and it needs to be solved. And in order not to put it in a long box, you have to look at it on the committee. And in the committee, you can look at it in a substantive and comprehensive way, complete or withdraw some of the positions. As for my colleague Karmazin, who noted that this law should be distributed, including for food products, I fully support, because food is the main thing that we have for the health of the population, our population. If we do not limit the circulation of products that affect our health, we will constantly allocate and increase the budget for our population’s treatment. So I would ask a colleague about this bill to support it in the first reading, and about its comprehensive reasoning, including, in the part that I said, to discuss it in the committee discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u63	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Who insists on expressing their position? I can't see. I propose: on the basis of the conclusion of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law on the Prevention of Traffic in Ukraine of Dangerous Products, please vote. [[Registration number 7094]] [[16:55:11]] For 233 Decision taken. Please turn on Natalie Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u64	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I also request that the Committee prepare a second reading mandate to prepare the bill only after the adoption of Bill 6694, and that the second reading of the Bill 6694 be ensured only after the adoption of the second reading. Otherwise, I recall that this bill has been removed from the context of the bill under consideration and that as a separate bill, it is not a burden of any sense. The two bills should therefore be both adopted and considered together, otherwise we would conflict with the law. Or should we unite, we should allow the committee to merge the two bills and submit to the second reading the already consolidated Bill with Bill 6694. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u65	I ask the Chief Legal Office to prepare appropriate recommendations and proposals, and they will be directed to get to know both factions and committee leaders so that we don't create colossals. Is there no objection? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities. [[concerning restrictions on civil servants]] [[Registration number 6275]] Again, there is a proposal to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[16:57:10]] For 217 The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Grigory Kaletnik. The focal point is the head of the subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Marina Perestenko. Yes, please, four minutes. Both the authors and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u66	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You have been presented with a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities since 2 April 2010. [[Registration number 6275]] In accordance with the Ukrainian Law, agricultural advisory activities are a set of actions and actions aimed at meeting the needs of agricultural producers and the rural population to increase the level of knowledge and improve the practical skills of farming. In June 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities. This law defines legal principles, agricultural advisory activities in Ukraine, regulates relations in this area, and aims at improving the welfare of the rural population, and the development of rural areas. For six years, the de jure agricultural advisory services have been included in the Ukrainian legal field. During this time, some law - enforcement practices have been put in place. At the same time, there was a need to improve it. The bill contains the following suggestions. First. It is proposed that the concept of “agricultural advisory work ” be complemented by the term “agricultural advisory work, ” article 1. It is proposed that part two of article 8 be excluded from the law. Provision is made for a register of advisory services, article 9. Article 10 specifies how consultants and expert advisors are to be prepared. The main scientific and expert management has virtually no comment but on the proposal for a bill to clarify the concept of "agricultural advisory activities". According to experts, the proposed changes do not provide a single approach to the status of advisory services. According to the project, these may be legal persons and structural units of an agricultural educational institution, a scientific and research institution. Science and expertise suggests that the legal entities are institutions, institutions that have the status of a legal person, not their individual departments, and offer their variants. They think agrarian schools, scientific research institutions can carry out advisory activities as legal entities within the framework of current legislation. The committee agreed with the scientific and expert management's proposal that the proposed changes would not provide a single approach to the status of advisory services. Science and expertise suggests that the mechanism of implementation be clarified, i.e. the preparation of advisers and expert advisors. It is quite clear that such an order should be determined by the central authority of the executive branch of agrarian politics, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. This is a technical issue and can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. The committee believes that the first reading of the draft can be based on the comments made. Please support this position and accept the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u67	Yes, Your Honor, please sign up for this discussion. Please print the names of those who wish to appear on the information board. Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, change, and truth are to be made, but they are very limited in this bill. It's true that government officials have to do both advice and control, and work in the agricultural sector under their official responsibilities, and not as advisers. We have a lot of counselors, and those who work less and less each year. With regard to services that are advisory. True, they may be both scientists and specially trained experts, but how does the Law on Advisory Services suffer? He suffers from factors that regulate the responsibility of the advisory service for all the advice they give to agrarians. There is no such responsibility today. How many mistakes have been made because of advice given to advisory services in the field of decommissioning, farm management, and so forth, in the organization of credit unions, which in particular in rural areas have worked extensively in the provision of services, and today people cannot find their own funds. So, before the second reading of this bill, you have to make a point of responsibility. If you are counseling and it is based on a proper salary and contract, responsibility should be provided for the enforcement of legislation in this area and not for people to suffer such counsel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u69	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u70	Thank you. Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. You know, I was listening to my colleague Mrs. Catherine, you know, Mrs. Catherine, I was actually against this law that was passed a few years ago. That bill “played” for about two years, and was difficult to accept as a whole. And this previous law, which exists, on counseling, has practically been in existence for a few years. And it turns out a couple of years later that it needs to be corrected, this bill. And I think in this advisory service, when you look, people are all practically working, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to tell you that in this advisory service, everyone works practically without exception: from the Ministry of Human Policy, from the institutes of science, research stations and so on. Please tell me, who doesn't give advice about how to better work in agriculture in these institutions? No, they've invented some kind of advisory service, they're about to invent these institutions to make some kind of social union, and so on. It's people who have just adopted this law before, and thought that aside from the ministry's wages or other research institutes, there would be some extra pay. So, dear colleagues, this project is now truly designed to create some kind of unification, social union, advisory services, and more than one. But not a penny should these professionals, who, in positions in these institutions, institutions, no longer have to feed the state and use funds from the state budget. I'm in favour of voting for this project, but don't make a penny out of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u71	Please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u72	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm practically done.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? There are no wanters. The committee's proposal and the committee's conclusions: to accept the bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities. [[concerning the restriction on civil servants]] [[Registration number 6275]] Please vote. [[17:06:22]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please don't cool down. We still have a little work to do. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning statutory capital. [[on the replacement of the concept of "statutory fund"]] [[Registration number 2425]] Again, the proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[17:07:07]] For 215 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the reporter is the national MP, Gorina Irina Anatoliyevna, as you know, she doesn't have a valid reason. So I would ask the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Mikolaiovich, to make an appropriate report.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, the bill is very simple, although it seems large enough, in fact it is very simple and clear. We have the Civil Code of Ukraine and there is a Community Act in which the statutory fund is properly named, as set out in accounting standards, statutory capital. At the same time, there are a number of laws in which the Charter Fund is still referred to as an old-fashioned statutory fund. This bill suggests that our colleague Gorina bring all laws, virtually all laws, into line with the Civil Code of Ukraine. And everywhere they write instead of the words "the constitution fund" they write: "statutory capital". There is a comment on the bill by the expert office and the Cabinet of Ministers. It's all the same. It says yes, it's all right. However, not all the laws of Gorin were covered. There are still a number of laws behind it, where the words “the constitutional fund” will also be changed to “statutory capital”. That's all. Therefore, the proposal of our Committee on Economic Policy has been taken. It is recommended that the Supreme Council support it. The proposal is to adopt Bill 2425 on first reading. Until the second reading, to finalize and make the necessary changes, bringing the same word into line, instead of “the constitutional fund”, “the constitutional capital” and other laws that have not been covered.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Yes, no one showed a desire to share in the discussion. It's all clear, isn't it? I put to the vote then, please note, the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on statutory capital. [[on the replacement of the concept of “statutory fund”]] [[Registration number 2425]] Please vote. [[17:10:10]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for counterfeiting of excise stamps. [[Registration number 4736]] The author and the committee are asking to postpone consideration of the matter. Is there no objection? Should I vote? We're putting it off for the next plenary week. You got it? Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of War Children. [[concerning the granting of benefits]] [[Registration number 4542]] There is a suggestion to deal with this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[17:11:13]] For-183 Decision taken. The rapporteur for the National Deputy of Ukraine is Mikhailo Volodymyrovich Sokolov. The Coroner is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons of Uljana Mikolayovna Mistpane. Please. Reporter, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Act on the Protection of Children with Disabilities was adopted in 2004. This law entails a 25 per cent reduction in household gas. It is proposed to amend and supplement. Because, unfortunately, the gas economies, the liquefied gas, the compressed gas, do not actually provide this 25 per cent discount for the population. Therefore, the bill is in fact a clarification and proposes to include such a form of gas in liquefied form in a bill. I would like to support the fact that we have a heating season on our nose, and voters, especially those living in the private sector, are looking forward to such a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u77	Thank you. Uljana Mikolayevna, please. Microphone, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u78	Dear head, dear fellows! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons considered the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Social Protection of Children of War, submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputies of Sokolov and Bobil on 7 October 2009. The bill provides for amendments to article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on the Social Protection of Children of War in the section entitled “Exacting the Benefits” given to children of war. Yes, the current standard is that children of war are entitled to a 25 percent reduction in the cost of utilities, gas, electricity and so on within the average consumption standards. The bill proposes that the word “to” be clarified, namely, that the benefit is extended, including when using compressed gas, if the house has an incinerator and solid fuel. The committee recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis, since it is only about clarifying the current norm rather than extending the category of benefits. When it comes to 470,000 children of war being disabled, it becomes clear that this category of people is being used as an inflammation. And given that gas prices have increased significantly since August of this year, it is clear that this clarification should be accepted. So, dear colleagues, I would very much like to vote in favour of such amendments to the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Alexander Stoyan will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u80	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. It is certain that the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support the bill, as it has supported all the years of support for the disadvantaged children of war. But I would like to draw attention to another. Dear colleagues! Dear government officials! I'm against all the children of war that we're making fun of today's children of war, because since 1 January 2006, we haven't been ensuring the implementation of this law. If the higher legislative body of the State has adopted this law, it must be done. The children of war are forced to go to the courts and appeal to the state, and they go: Whom is carried on a stretcher, who goes on crutches but goes to these same courts. How long will these people be bullied by the State?Oh, my God! First. The other one. How long will these children of war be abused by courts that will “foot out ” them at different institutions? If the court of the first instance has taken a decision, an appeal must be made before the courts of other institutions. Not enough, today the courts are recommending that they go to political parties and, in particular, to the Socialist Party of Ukraine to make these appeals before the courts. It specifically tells us what political power to go to, what it does not do to the courts. And the third. I would like to say today that individual political parties have privatized the right to children of war, and socialists do. Children of war take turns from three to two hours of the night for the Socialist Party to form these outsides. Call the court, and they're told, and you voted in favour of the regions, and you voted in favour of the Ukrainian Company or others, and they say no. You can't let that happen. The courts today are neither organizational nor material.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u81	Give me a chance to finish. You all have it, don't you? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u82	No, no. I draw attention to the fact that the courts today are neither personnel nor organizationally nor materially capable of ensuring that the wall of statements with children of war is examined. I ask the government and all interested parties to study this issue and to make a decision that will benefit both the state and not abuse the children of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u83	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I support the emotional speech of my colleague Gordienka, who said that, in fact, this law has aroused society so much that we don't know what to do with it today. I want to remind you that people who were not 18 years of age on May 1st fall under this law. In fact, they are all those people who lived during the war, minors. They're all retired, they're all retired, they get pensions, they get benefits. But we added some benefits to the so-called children of war, and not just the benefits, it's also the pension allowance, it's and, in fact, certain utility services, but it didn't materially strengthen. And every time we come to the districts, we are asked: “What have you done with us? Why don't you pay us a raise? [[And it's not a small amount, and there's no money in the budget.]] Why don't you give us cheap gas and much more?" And this is the bill that our colleagues tabled, and it's going to be directed once again at great social excitement. The decision already has to do with certain benefits for the use of gas. What's more, I don't know if it was Comrade Sokolov talking or anyone else, he called it: the social protection of the disabled -- the children of war. So I'd like to make it clear whether this will only apply to disabled children -- children of war -- that is, children of war became disabled, and these benefits are increasing, whether this will apply to all children of war. If this applies to all children of war, they must certainly be protected. I'm going to vote for it myself, but let's see if there's any financial resources to pay off these costs, if there's any other resources. And right colleague Gordienko, that one political force -- I don't want to repeat -- and they were the authors of this bill, they privatized these children of war. And when they go to elections, they promise them everything, they're not in power right now, they're not responsible for anything, they're stimulating society. We need to approach this law very carefully. I would consider it in the first reading, and there I would consider it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u85	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u86	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. I wouldn't want my speech to be like my colleagues' speeches when they're fighting for electorate on this law. I'd like people to feel really, really worried about them. It's about very simple things. In Ukraine today, unfortunately, there are two categories of citizens, including those living in the private sector, using compressed gas and solid fuels. They don't fall under this benefit. Those who live in urban buildings are more comfortable and use gas, not clumped gas, but normal ones, are affected by it. Well, unless we can, in accordance with article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine, allow for this apparent inequality. I don't know who lives here. So I'm sure here either socialists or communists who consider this electorate to be their own, I don't think this definition of these people is right, these are our Ukrainians who have lived a hard life and who need the same attitude from the state. More than that, today’s government, which raises gas prices every month and doubles it, today will lead people to the fact that all of us will have to drown in straw, corn, peat, wood. And those who can't get this peat in the Plain anymore, because one of our colleagues here is trying to get a piece of land, I'd like them to be able to use at least, at least in their old age, this treasure, which is so much talked about, so-called, blue fuel. So today I would like to see a test of sincerity, including the representatives of the Party of Regions, which today speaks of improving people's lives today and will not vote in favour of this law. That's their whole honesty, that's their concern for people, about children of war, about Ukrainian citizens -- about rising prices for gas, about rising prices. Phenomenal price increases for all kinds of products. That's what we're seeing today, that. What you promised and when you lied during the election campaign. If you do not blink, continue to lie during this campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. No one insists on the performance anymore? No, it's not. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on this proposal, namely the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of War Children. [[concerning the granting of benefits]] [[Registration number 4542]] [[17:22:53]] For-160. The decision is not taken. The factions? Please: Region Party - 1, Block of Timoshenko - 115, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 18, Communists - 26, Block of Lithuania and non-fractional - 0. I would like to vote on the bill for re-reading. [[17:23:29]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 61 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on the property rights of a married couple]] [[Registration number 4493]] Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[17:24:12]] For 185 Decision taken. Rapporteur - Ukrainian National Deputy Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko, co-rapporteur - head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Katerina Evgenyovna Lukyanova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u88	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. This bill is small, simple, and refers to 61 articles of the Family Code, which refer to the list of objects that relate to a compatible marriage. The situation is that, in fact, it comes out of court practice that among those objects of common compatible property, it is not clearly stated that it belongs to housing and land that has been separated either from municipal property or from state property or acquired through privatization. And in this context, there was a situation where courts interpreted in different ways the legal status of this property from a residence or a property. And in some cases, it's recognized as a common property, and in others it's only the property of one of the spouses. In order to eliminate this contradiction, it is suggested that 61 articles of the Family Code be added to the fact that both housing and land will still be part of the common property. I would like to propose to the distinguished people's deputies an improved edition of this article so that we can adopt it as a whole as a law, because the scientific and expert office, after the analysis, gives us the opportunity to adopt this norm as a whole. I'm going to read it right now, and from your ad, we'll be able to vote in general as a law. Thus, “the object of the common property of the couple is housing acquired by one of the spouses during the marriage as a result of the privatization of the State Housing Fund and the land area. “ I don’t know
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u89	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u90	Thank you. I'll read the transcript first. “The subject of the right of the joint property of the marriage is the residence acquired by one of the spouses during the marriage as a result of the privatization of the State Housing Fund and the land area acquired as a result of the free transfer of one of the spouses from the state or municipal property, including the privatisation of the property that was in use.” This is a legally correct formulation that can be adopted by us as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u92	You can't do that because the short procedure doesn't provide for a question. Dear colleagues, who will report from the committee? I will then report: the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt this bill as a basis. Please sign up for his discussion. Please put your name on the board. Yuri Carmazin's microphone, followed by Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u93	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear People's Deputies and Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, we have today passed many short-term bills, which we consider to be shortened. It seems to me that life in those bills will be cut short, too, because they live somehow apart from life. And I suggest you look at this pattern, and I wanted to ask you a question, and that's why I wanted to have a full discussion on this. One of the spouses is a foreigner, and then he acquires ownership of this land at the distribution of this land, this property. And this is being done all the time in our independent Ukraine. We have repeatedly insisted on this and said that people, the only thing that is possible is to write it “except for land cases”. The earth is the exclusive property of Ukrainian citizens. All of it. Tell me, anywhere in the Emirats, in another country, that anyone else claims to be on your land, and they'll make you laugh. And now there's not a thousand hectares to be bought? The emissaries are on their way, and they're buying money. And now they're going to do it through this mechanism. That's why I think that even the option now offered by the Scientific and Scientific Administration is one that doesn't fully anticipate all the possible negative effects on Ukrainian land that can't be found today. And the cost that today is, we're talking about market, in these conditions where we have 10 times less, it's not cost, it's not adequate cost, we can't give it up today. And I propose to remove the land area from here. Please, the house, please, anything, but not the land. You don't have to do that, Your Honor, or write that just for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u94	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, why did I sign up against this law? I'll tell you why. You know, when a divorce is going on, it's a painful process, it's dividing the kids, it's dividing the apartment, it's dividing the forks, the spoons, and a lot of other things. And of course, the law should provide for what is shared, how to divide. I wanted to ask Yuri Miroshnichenko one question. That's the question, Mr. Yuri. The man married a woman, he had an apartment before, he had a car. He took his wife, lived for a time, no children, for example. And then that woman goes to this apartment, to this car, or vice versa, into the reception of a young man, a woman, they're alive, they have a child alive. And that man, that young man, when he made nothing, did nothing, said: "Give me back the half-bedroom, give me the half-cars, half-table, table, and so forth." So I'd like them to explain what the real reason is here? As far as the land is concerned, I support what Comrade Carmazin said, because there really is today when parents inherit the land in the countryside and, let's say, hectares, and there comes such a hunter somewhere from the city came and married and half, two hectares or how far he's taken. I'm not talking about foreigners anymore. So I think this law needs to be considered very carefully, it's a painful law, because it's a social law, a law that defines the rights of both members of the family. And here we have to look closely. I'm going to propose that you accept it on the first reading and consider these proposals. If Yuri Miroshnichenko tells me that's not the case, then I'll make another decision. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, one minute, let's now vote for the basis, and then we'll explain. That's not supposed to happen, Yuri Romanovich. Dear colleagues, we'll finish the discussion. Who else insists on the faction? You don't? Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko, microphone. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, what is the point of this law? Because it's not about the areas that someone buys, it's about the areas that they buy, it's about the ones that are already acquired in the marriage. And the main thing is that when people privatize their apartments, or their neighborhoods, they're already married, they're not foreigners, they're ours. But for example, they privatized the house for a husband, not a wife, or for a wife, not a husband, and now a situation arose when they were going to divorce, how to view this property, whether it belonged to one of the spouses, or whether it belonged to both of the spouses. And there was a practice where, in different courts, it is interpreted as having no relation to those foreigners who are now getting married, the property acquired before marriage is not an object of common property. Now, I was actually explaining this in the rostrum, and now I'm explaining, Yuri Anatolyevich, it's not the danger you're talking about. We've got a lot of people privatizing their homes, you know, we've got a lot of people in the villages right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u98	Finish up, please. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt a bill amending article 61 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on the property rights of a married couple]] [[Registration number 4493]] [[17:34:23]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there was an offer to accept it as a whole, but since there is a denial by the national MPs, there is no reason to put the vote to the vote, which is denied by Yuri Carmazin, and today he has a birthday. So please prepare and prepare for the second reading. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the prevention of illegal land grabbing]] [[Registration number 3588]] There is a proposal to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:35:21]] For 197 Decision taken. The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin. Coroner is the head of the Committee on Legal Policy's subcommittee, Yuri Miroshnichenko. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u99	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill 3588, introduced by the People's Deputies of Karmazin, Bebelzenk, Miroshnichenko, is proposed to you. The bill is very simple at first sight, but it is being introduced to produce a new edition of part three of article 376 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. These changes will allow for the recognition in court of ownership rights to self - built immovable property only persons who, until the entry into force of the Ukrainian Code of Land on January 1, 2002 received land under it, but for various reasons did not form ownership rights for the use of these areas. In addition, the bill provides for the exclusion from the jurisdiction of arbitral tribunals of cases relating to the recognition of ownership of land, other immovable property and the recognition of real or non-real rights from the alienation of the control of such property. This is part of article 376 of the Civil Code, in its original form, which provides for the recognition of ownership of immovable property by a person who has built his own building on land that is not in his possession or use. It is not specified at which stage the granting of land to the person concerned should take place before or after the recognition of ownership of the building. Taking advantage of this uncertainty, a mechanism for seizing land of state property has been acquired in Ukraine, through the recognition of ownership of immovable property. The mechanism is quite simple. The land of the stock is wrongly seized, a residential or other building is built on it, and the court, most often under control, recognizes ownership of it. Then the authority authorized to dispose of the land is required to privatize or rent the land in which it is located. This mechanism is formed by what we have failed. That's why we're proposing a group of deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u100	Allow me to complete the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u101	Thank you. So we suggest that we change this to 376 of the Civil Code. And we're saying that these actions that we want to normalize are causing a lot of damage to the state. Instead of selling free land or land trade rights at land markets, land areas are widely depreciated. The authors believe that the legalization of self - construction on a land that does not belong to the builder is unacceptable. So we ask you to accept this bill. The authors refer entirely to the various political powers. The bill is not political, it is designed to preserve Ukrainian land. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u102	Thank you. Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko, head of the Committee on Legal Policy Please, about the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u103	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Yuri Anatolyovich, despite your failure to give us the full approval of the previous law, I will say that we are co-authors of this law with you. And the committee's decision on this bill is positive. Because the means proposed by the authors to address this issue by ensuring that the actual criminal business involved in the capture of areas, the construction of real estate objects on them, while these people are not directly users of these real estate objects and do not use these land areas, actually transforms the situation into a criminal or illegal business. The bill is valid. It can be developed for second reading. He has a positive conclusion, as I said, on the part of our profiling committee. And I urge my colleagues to support the bill as a basis. Thank you, authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u104	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Gregory Smythew. Please, you have the right to speak. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u105	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. In principle, I agree with the authors of the bill on the part that the changes to article 376 should be made and we should vote on it, but I do not agree with the logic of the position that, so called, the legalization of land in relation to immovable property that has been built, but is being built and so on, should only respond if it was by 1 January 2002. Why such a countdown? If we are already doing an audit in this regard, or if we want to set things straight, we need to ask at the same time the question that it has been happening since 2002. Let's do it from 2010 or January 1, 2011, and we'll introduce rules that don't make it impossible to build or alienate land under such a formula, but if we legalize all these property rights in relation to the ratio and the immovable property, then I propose that during the second reading that I think we're going to vote on the basis of such changes that apply, my proposal becomes effective on January 1, 2011. Then we're going to put everyone at the same level, because in some citizens we're going to say they're right because they did it before 2002, and in other citizens we're going to tell them they're wrong because they did it after January 1, 2002. Logic here, I don't think, is missing. So I call on the author and the committee to make this rule, if we make it work, for today, then it makes sense, then it explains and explains that there were no such cases in the future. So I ask you to support this bill in the first reading and only on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u106	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction. Please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u107	In general, this is absolutely necessary, because the dispossessing of the land in various ways has already taken on this, I would say, global character. But I would not want this law, which will be passed, to allow and allow today to return to the already built objects, to the so - called, legal objects in question. Because today this can be used by a very interesting new authority. I'm looking at what's going on in Kiev. Didn't the prosecutors who now run the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, the police, and everyone else who did land in Kiev when thousands of hectares were distributed to students for one session of Kyivrad? These lists were made up of thousands of people who had no relation to Kiev. And today, Lesika is scared, with her nose and her fingertips dripping, he's scared. But nothing will happen to Lesik, because today those who frighten him, together yesterday, shared the Beetle Island, the green zone around Dniper, and so forth. So I would like to point out that this bill needs to be very clearly defined so that there is not, they say, such a digging in the past that will allow people to be thrown out of built buildings there today and so on. Everyone has to have the same level of rights. If we introduce the law, from the moment it is published with a very good explanation for people, what to do, what to do, and what to do. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are certainly voting today, but let's just do the first reading so that we can work on it. What I want to say is that today the Supreme Council is actively working on the City Codex. And it removes very serious blocks that inhibited the normal removal of land without bribes. For example, the city’s foundation, which took two years to follow, was to find where to take it. And a lot of people, having given up on this, just life ends, started building their buildings in those areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u108	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u109	And given this, I'd like to make it easy for us to first, make it transparent, take away the land, select those categories that need land first of all, those that don't have their own housing, and maybe even more harshly required those that do that for commercial purposes, by illegal methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee's proposal to your knowledge is proven. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the prevention of illegal land grabbing]] [[Registration number 3588]] Please vote. [[17:45:20.]] For 347 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this is a testimony that, among other things, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin uses authority among fellow national deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider some of the bills that we've sent to read again in due course. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the enforcement of legislation prohibiting gambling in Ukraine. The proposal is to consider this issue by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:46:10]] For 196 Decision taken. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u111	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! All of us are reminded of how unanimously we banned the game business as an activity in Ukraine, and I am sure that this decision was absolutely correct and justified. Indeed, at that time we have taken all possible safeguards for citizens against the wild market for gambling. That is how he was and, unfortunately, is how savage he remains today. In fact, our prohibitions are being violated by both natural and legal persons in general. This is because the existing sanctions mechanism is completely ineffective. The tax check cannot be carried out under the law, the inspection is carried out by the police, which, as a result of the checks, passes the acts to the tax office, then takes the tax system to court and releases the liability of the law enforcement authorities and thus covers the illegal gambling business. And the meaning of this confusing procedure is very difficult to find today. Clearly, the law banning gambling does not work. Where the law doesn't work, that's where the shadow game business works. And we are all witnesses today, like Internet clubs, Internet casinos, poker clubs and beyond, we have a gambling business. Bill 5349 provides for a simpler and more logical system. The draft law is intended to give the militia authorities the right to file claims before a court. The Court shall decide on the financial sanctions provided for by law for the organization and conduct of the game business. In this way, we are now giving all the power to demonstrate ourselves, not in words, but in fact, and to show the opportunity, in a socially meaningful example, for or against the game business. The police are under an obligation to oversee the enforcement of the law banning gambling. The Penal Code introduces a new article: “Activities prohibited by the Act on the Prohibition of Game Business”. The article provides.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u112	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u113	Thank you. The article provides for a fine of 8,000 minimum wages. As of 1 July, the minimum wage is 888 grivens, i.e. the fine will be more than 7 million grivens, with the confiscation and destruction of game equipment for the occupation of the game business. I think we are all interested in not imitating the fight against the gaming business, and indeed taking the necessary measures, and bringing order to the country today in a socially meaningful segment. The bill was sufficiently effective. Until the second reading, we will finalize all the comments of the Scientific and Expert Management. And the Committee's proposal: to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Yuri Odarchenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, we all remember that last year the determined government of Yulia Timoshenko carried out a number of actions that destroyed this phenomenon in Ukraine. Much has been done in spite of the opposition of local mafias, local groups that feed near the business. Dear friends, at this very moment, at the right time to adopt appropriate reinforcements of existing legislation in order to put an end to this issue. And I emphasize, I support the report that today's vote will be a test for those who support this gaming business, who don't. Because essentially this disease is a disease of society. And if we're like national MPs, we're looking out for the future. With the future of the people of Ukraine, we must support this bill. Dear friends, I want to say that there can't be any argument about supporting local budgets at the expense of the gaming business, that's not the cost. More loyally, the price of those funds is too great to be a motive and argument to support the gaming business in Ukraine. I ask all deputies to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u116	Thank you. Gregory Smythuch, please, factions of the Party of Regions. Then there will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u117	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you remember. That my position over the past three years on June 25, 2009 reached the goal of overcoming the Presidential one thing. The veto and the law introduced the ban on gaming business in Ukraine. Unfortunately, I find that thanks to the inaction, and often for the active activities of law enforcement agencies, the casino actually functions under other signs under other brands today, but it works in the shadow sector. And this is covered by the local authorities on one side, who don't check the premises, and on the other, they're the law enforcement agencies, the responsibility that lies entirely with them. So I, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, am addressing you as Head of the Supreme Council, during this discussion, please ask or have the secretariat prepare a request to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, to the Attorney General, why the law is not being implemented. One example that I would like to give is this: on September 15-17 in Kiev on the Brovary Avenue at the International Exhibition Centre, an exhibition was held. And you know what was happening? Playtables, slot machines, business projects and so on, which was demonstrated and offered to our citizens, who are talking about how to open a business today, how to cheat the law, how to agree on other issues which profit this has business and so on. Please tell me why does the Chamber of Commerce of Ukraine organize such an exhibition when it knows perfectly that the game business in Ukraine is banned? Why do officials organize such an exhibition complex and conduct such an exhibition in our country today? So I think the responsibility should also be for the people who organized the exhibition. And the last. Of course, I will uphold this law. I keep going to this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u118	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u119	Let me finish. I would like to ask you, of course, that we should not put all the responsibility for controlling this “business” in coffee pots just on internal affairs. I think that tax inspection should deal with this issue because the kind of activity that is banned, the profits that come from this activity is the direct jurisdiction of the tax, including the police. If we have it. And we have the police, and we have enough powers, and we have enough legal powers. so to speak, the law that allows them to check, including conducting an extra-curricular examination, if this is the case with the prohibited activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u120	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, please, the faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense." We continue our evening session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u121	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Did we solve all the problems when we adopted the Act on the Prohibition of Game Business in Ukraine? No, we didn't. Why? Because it's happening today, first of all, and second of all, when we passed the law, we accepted it legally poorly, if you want to know. We wrote that the police make up an act, and then they pass it on to the tax office, and the tax office let them take it to court. So we've given three nodes where bribes can take place: in the police, in the tax department. And if they stood up, then in court. Three knots. Then there is the right way out. Maybe not quite, Natalia Yuriovno. I'll tell you why. Because you're proposing to give a court order for the prosecution of the police, and you have to write "internal cases" and the authorities of the State Tax Office. And where do we put the local self - government authorities, which also have responsibilities in this territory, and they could make such calls. And where we're looking for a health service, the Ukrainian Security Service, because it's about what's breaking the foundations of the state, there's no legislation, there's a colossal flow, there's a shadow economy. And 30,000 citizens, who are engaged in Ukraine, which we keep on our budget, are now engaged in listening, observing and carrying out political orders. Today we have adopted the Law on Changes to Military Intelligence. Unless it's normal for a military scout to report, the Prime Minister went there or here. It's not normal, it's facts. Therefore, it is necessary to adopt this law in the first reading and to continue to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the enforcement of legislation prohibiting gambling in Ukraine. Registration number 5349. Please vote. [[17:57:09]] For 307 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 164, Timoshenko Block - 84, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 21, Communists - 0, "Block of Lithuania" - 19, non-fractional - 19. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the expansion of access to higher education. [[Registration number 2189-d]] The proposal to consider this issue by a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:57:57]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Thank you. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Maxim Lutsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine commissioned the Committee on Science and Education on 25 June 2009 to finalize the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of Ukraine's higher education laws to remove obstacles that impede free access to higher education for persons with disabilities. [[Registration number 2189]] The bill amends Ukraine's laws on the basis of social protection for people with disabilities in Ukraine, on education, on higher education, on taxation of income for businesses. These changes remove gaps in legislation in higher education and create favourable conditions for Ukrainian citizens to gain higher education. The bill proposes that citizens of Ukraine be given the right in individual cases provided for by legislation, for the second time free of charge, to obtain higher education on a competitive basis in public and municipal higher education institutions at a certain educational and qualification level. In particular, giving such a right to persons with disabilities after obtaining a certain level of higher education and their health, according to medical and social expertise, does not allow them to work for a given specialty. It is also suggested that a list of the reasons for granting academic leave in connection with pregnancy and childbirth, the need to care for a child before reaching the age of three. Also include in gross costs the taxpayer's expenses related to the reflection of persons who are trained in higher vocational and technical schools for participation in scientific, scientific and practical Olympics, competitions, etc. The amended bill takes into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. It is also suggested that the title of the bill be changed and that it be worded as follows: “To amend certain laws of Ukraine on increased access to higher education” since such a name is fully in line with the legislative changes envisaged in these bills. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of a review of the draft Law on Introduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u124	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u125	Ukraine’s legislation on increased access to higher education should be accepted as a basis and be entrusted to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Education and Science to prepare for consideration in the second reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you may not deny that we should support the committee, accept it as a foundation, and have them work out this bill, since it expands the rights and capabilities of people with special health problems, to obtain a second education that will help them to maintain this turbulent life’s sea. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the expansion of access to higher education. [[Registration number 2189-d]] Please vote. Please vote. [[18:01:21]] For-149 The decision is not taken. Since this bill was already on a rereading of the first reading and there is no reason to go back to the first reading. That's why. Or, if it is your will to return to this question, and if it is not, the bill will be regarded as rejected. You don't have a wish? So the bill is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we should be discussing with you the draft Law on Amendments to Article 212 of the Ukrainian Family Code. [[concerning adoption]] At the same time, the committee made a request to postpone consideration of the matter, since a number of positions had not yet been agreed upon, it was a very sensitive issue. Is there no objection that we postponed the hearing? None. Then let's put it off. And the last project that we have to consider today is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Labour Code (as regards working hours (changes) (registration number 4682-d). The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, Vladimir Maruschenko. I'm betting on the vote to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. This is the last question, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. [[18:02:43]] For-183 Decision taken. Vladimir Stanislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u127	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to offer you a law that regulates working hours. According to article 45 of the Constitution, the maximum length of working time is determined by law. According to the Labour Code, the maximum workweek duration is set at 40 hours, and according to article 52 of the Code, the maximum working hours for a six - day working week are set at 7 hours. [[changes]] Yet the Labour Code contains article 61, which introduces the concept of the summation of working hours. I emphasize that this is a special article that deals with enterprises, productions, separate areas that cannot work in a separate mode, they have a full-time manufacturing process, and they can't get into the normal work-time schedule that is defined by the Labour Code. In addition, it is necessary to agree with the production committee in order to get into the total amount of working time. So what I want to stress is that this bill asks not to regulate working time as such, but only the working time of the change that is made in the productions that have a cumulative calculation of working time. What is the essence of the total amount of time worked? For example, if the maximum duration of the week is 40 hours and the accounting period for such an enterprise is 4 weeks, that is, the maximum time that one employee can work during that period is 160 hours. The point is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u128	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u129	that the maximum duration of the working week or working change is not defined in the total working time calculation, and the employer can set any working time between 8 and 18 hours. The bill is called upon to determine the maximum duration of a working day for enterprises that have switched to the total amount of time. Both he and the bill set such a length of work of not more than 12 hours. It should be noted that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy issued methodological recommendations in 2006, where employers were also advised to adjust working hours for a maximum of 12 hours. Taking into account what has been said, I would like to support the bill proposed to supplement article 61 of the Labour Code with the rule that, in the overall calculation of working hours, the duration of daily work may not exceed 12 hours. The Committee on Social Policy and Work at its meeting considered the bill. A working group of Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the All - Ukrainian Trade Unions and the All - Ukrainian Union of Organizations and Employers was created to further its work. As a result of a review of the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Labour Code, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. I'm asking you to support and not confuse this with a normal, normal norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please write down: two – “for” two – “against”. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Jaroslav Suhi and then Yuri Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, the introduction of this bill into the session hall indicates that society has seen a pressing problem with the adoption of the Labour Code. You can't keep pulling like that. The Labour Code, introduced in 1972, has been amended, 256 articles have been amended, and the Preamble has been amended. During this time, as long as this code exists, laws on pay have been adopted, on work protection, on vacations and so on. Not enough that these laws conflict with each other, but they are generally indistinguishable. Comrade Marouschenko is right about what? I'm asking you a lot, there's no interference with workers' rights. Remember, the accidents that are happening today with what are called taxi routes, why? They're 16, they're 20, they're 24. He came to Kiev, he wants to make money. As a result, disaster, disaster, and disaster. The total working week does not mean the difference of a 40-hour working week, it's about areas where, for example, you can't stop marten, you can't stop chemical synthesis, you can't stop any processes. We have to adjust this position. And I'll remind you that in the Labour Code we also approach a balanced 40-hour working week with a sum total of no more than 12 hours of work. At eight o'clock all the other hours that the employee will be working on, according to the Labour Code and the collective agreement will be paid in double tariffs. So I think this bill should be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u132	Yuri Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, this is a bill that can clearly be called "Ukraine for the People". Today, the Party of Regions, in the paws of “Ukraine for People”, said the Party of Regions to raise the retirement age for women with different motives. An absolutely commercial statement, which, I am sure, must not be supported by the people of Ukraine, but how to go to a demonstration in France, clearly demonstrate to this political force that it is not necessary to encroach on such freedoms of people that many people have put their health and life on. Today this bill is trying to set up a 12-hour working day. That's the question, these pharisaic statements here that there's no such thing as, it's not regulated by labour legislation, they're absolutely worthless. Here are all the managers in the past enterprises who know clearly how to pay overtime, how to pay people, how to pay them, how to pay them. Today, the bill sets a workday limit of 12 hours. And I'm asking this question that we need, a very special consideration of society, because today, by voting for the last day of work, we are seriously violating the rights of the worker. And this absolutely showy vote, I ask everyone to follow closely, firstly, the rise in retirement age is not calming, because they say: we have stabilized society now, we have power in our hands, there is nowhere to complain, following a step – that is to increase working hours – 12 hours. I ask everyone not to support this bill and not to listen to lying statements here that it is necessary for people.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? You don't? Mikhail Chechtov, please have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u135	Dear colleagues! Indeed, the Party of the Regions is simply correcting the nonsense for which the people went to the streets and threw a ballot in the urn, sending you to a political dump. And you won't understand. He's already sent you to a political retreat, so sit down and shut up! Sit down and shut up! And the Party of the Regions is correcting the nonsense that Timoshenko signed when she signed the Memorandum. She said that the Memorandum had signed a gas contract with Russia, and she thought about the party, the corporate interests, the future of the presidency. I just buried Ukraine's interests! We're resuscitating it all now! As for retirement age, the issue on the agenda was not and is not worth it. These dirty insinuations of yours will bury you again, and finally in these elections. Amen!
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine take this document as a basis for further work. I'm voting on the proposal: the adoption of the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. [[on the duration of the working day of the change]] Registration number 4682-d. [[6:12:59]] For 211 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote. Wait a minute! I'm betting on voting for re-reading the draft Law 4682-d. Aah! Take it off the vote. You can't, it's already been on again. I'm sorry, thanks for the tip. The bill was rejected. For reasons, please, Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u137	Dear colleagues, what we've heard on the side of BUT is a total provocation, it's the excitement of society. I'll remind you that people work today for 15 hours and 18 hours and 20 hours. In this context, the ILO Convention 153, ratified in Ukraine, recommended to governments, parliaments where there is such work that is continuous, takes into account this work for 12 hours, but totals in a week should not be more than 40 hours. If this is more, extra money is paid, vacations are given. That's why we wanted to keep people from working 20 hours, 18 hours, not more than 12 hours, implementing the 153rd ILO Convention. And what the colleagues at BUT said was a lie, because today people are doing everything they're supposed to do, 40 hours a week. So what we didn't do, well, we'll go back to that because there's a code of labor laws, a new version. We predict it's consistent with three sides. Nobody's going to work anymore, as stated in the Constitution, it's all a front.
ParlaMint-UA_2010-09-21-m1.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on such an optimistic note, we conclude the evening meeting of the Supreme Council. We've exhausted the order of our day. I thank you for your work and announce the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we will resume the plenary session at 10 a.m.
