ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4107	The meeting was opened. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen to the House. The official protocols of the 86. Meeting of 17 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 18 March 1990 In November 2004, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Csörgits, Verzetznitsch and Dr. Bleckmann are reported as prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4138	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllwill be represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Ernst Strasserver. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4165	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Impacts of illegal residence and criminal tourism on the Austrian criminal justice” First of all, Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé has spoken. Your speaking time shall be 10 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4189	Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in the last few months – or weeks – there is a massive discussion about this, especially in the Federal Republic of Germany, but also in the Scandinavian states, whether we, the European states, have not taken over with the free immigration, with the unreflected gate-to-policies of the nineties, because throughout recent years, in some cases, we have admitted in part, major problems and conflicts have appeared. We of the liberals have always pointed out that this generous immigration will lead to problems sooner or later, but unfortunately one has not listened to us from God. But now it is becoming increasingly open to admit that a parallel society has developed, because many foreigners have not integrated because they have already come here, not to integrate, but to live their own lives. And some of them were never willing to accept our values. [[Abg. Oillinger: Freedom of value...!]] Many live in their own world, without knowledge of our language, and therefore they cannot participate in general life at all. They are often under the pressure of fanatical religious communities, and how skrupellos is being done here, Mr Ollinger, I shall read to you immediately. “NEWS” has been studied by schoolbooks issued in some religiously dominated schools. For example, the children are taught not to integrate at all, because if you give up with Christians and Jews, you end up in hellfire, and Islam is the only true religion: No power to the unbelievers, do not make friends with those who do not belong to your religion. – This is not from me, but “NEWS” has had these textbooks examined, and “NEWS” is really not in any closer relationship with us; you know that, ladies and gentlemen, too. That is, behind the claim, a peaceful living together of different cultures, different religions are possible anyway, can really be put a very big question mark. It is high time one looked open and serious at these facts and discussed them! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As has already been said, we have always held the discussion in the past about the problems, the conflicts arising from this great immigration. We have led them serially, but unfortunately we have been put back and forth again, even by you, as xenophobic. [[Abg. Oil: What? “Serious”?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Unimaginable!]] It is wrong, ladies and gentlemen, for we have made a responsible policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Contradiction of the Abg. Oils.]] Today – you will certainly also be following the policy of the neighbouring country of Germany, Mr Oellinger – all of Germany is discussing what has been made mistakes. Today we know that many mistakes have been made, that it is not as easy as you have imagined. The CDU party was dominated by the question: How do immigrants behave? How did we meet them? How do we have to meet them? Now, for example, the Chairman of the CSU demands that all foreigners living in the Federal Republic of Germany make a commitment to our values. – I believe that it is necessary to hold this discussion also in Austria, and not always to say blue-eye: It's all right anyway! We also need to deal with the question: What are we doing with people who are coming to us illegally, disregarding our rule of law, who not only disregard the immigration laws, but also disregard the criminal laws, and with asylumists who come, although they do not have any reasons under the Geneva Convention at all, and who are still setting criminal acts here? You can't just wipe that off the table! For example, the deputy director of the Bundesasylamt in Salzburg, because the collar was placed on him, published a book, “ASYLCONECTION – ES IS FIVE AFTER ZWÖLF”, in which he shows how the asylum law is abused. I think you should, instead of immediately putting up your hair and rejecting everything that is being presented here, once with the abuses that happen there, deal with it, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the Greens and the SPÖs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The security report, an objective source, which demonstrates how crime comes about, all that is happening in Austria, says: The drug trade in Austria is completely in African hands. And: In Austria, it is mainly asylum seekers who are drug dealers. Of the 56 000 suspects this year, from January to October, 9 246 are asylum seekers, ladies and gentlemen. This is an increase of 47 percent compared to the previous year! – Ladies and gentlemen, I know that all the attempts have been made to exterminate: amnesty is marching internationally, people are marching out of your groups and have said: [[Abg. Mandak: But they're not illegal, the asylum seekers!]] The suspect is not yet a convict! That's right, but it doesn't look better for the convicted. And with every addiction razia... [[Abg. Mandak: You've been talking about asylum seekers, not suspects!]] –beautiful You have nothing to do with it, but try to discuss with us the whole matter of this abuse! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In every addiction, the officials encounter asylum seekers. For example, in October 2003 in front of the camp in Traiskirchen there was a addiction. 16 suspects, all asylum seekers from Africa, were arrested. dozens of plastic balls filled with heroin or cocaine were secured there. [[Abg. Oils: Do something! You're in government!]] Five months later, again in Traiskirchen: Two 17-year-old asylum seekers have been arrested as suspected drug dealers. Vienna: A 41-year-old asylum seeker put 20 drug balls in his pants and swallowed 16 more. You can't just do that! But everything we do, unfortunately, God immediately comes upon massive criticism from you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's it! That's the problem!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: That's where the Minister of the Interior fails!]] If I were not afraid to negotiate a call for order, I would clearly qualify your behaviour, ladies and gentlemen. But I'm holding back. They are always the ones who keep their hands on those who act unlawfully, who are drug dealers who are illegally coming to Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Mandak: What does that mean?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Oils: That's great!]] - Yes, yes, great! November 2003, Vienna favorites: 40 asylum seekers live in a house, and because they are already weaved, have hidden the drug balls in flower pots that were placed on the passage. 31 Drug bullets were hidden there! Four people have been arrested, ten have been shown. Fake euro-shins were also found there. Tree garden height: Eleven asylum seekers – 54 cocaine balls! And accordingly, the situation also looks like in prisons: Of the 8 642 prisoners in total, 4 902 are Austrian but 3 741 are non-Austrian. That's 43 percent! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! No Austrian has any understanding that people come to us, seek asylum here, may still be in federal care, are cared for, medically, with clothing, with food – and then become criminal and seduce our children and young people with drugs! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Everyone – and here I address you too – who is important to the security of the population, to which the protection of children and young people is important, must be in order for us to proceed rigorously here. [[towards the green]] There is no policy of beautification! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is also necessary to strengthen border controls. There must also be controls where the Schengen border is, at least on a case-by-case basis. Two years ago, the Iranian President arrived in Austria, and because of the fear of an attack, border controls have been carried out again – with a sensational result: 130 Rejections under the Foreign Law on the Carinthian Border, in Tirol 107 Rejections! That means that here, if not controlled... [[Abg. Mandak: Who is decommissioning customs officials? You!]] – We have always been against Schengen, because we knew that there is a huge crime law on us. It has proved true, too, ladies and gentlemen. That is to say, such controls need to be reintroduced. It is also necessary to suspend criminals who have been subject to an asylum procedure. This is urgently necessary. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the Asylum Act, which needs to be partially recast, it is also necessary...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4450	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4465	... – I'll tell him! – it is also necessary to take decisive measures in the field of justice in order to master this abuse.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4492	For a preliminary opinion, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mrs Minister, you are speaking. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4514	Mr President. Dear Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issue discussed here today is justice, but also very dangerous in terms of social policy. We all know that in the 28 judicial institutions we have in Austria, we have a prison level to a degree that has not been the case in the last 30 years. If we see that in recent years the average number of prisoners has amounted to about 7 000 and we are now in prison in December of this year of over 9 000, we really must call the situation dramatic. The depth of prisoners was about 6,000 in 1989. On 1.1.2002 we stood at 6 804, and we now had the highest level on 1.12.2004 with 9 043. If we now compare this maximum number of prisoners with the proportion of foreigners, we shall achieve the following result: In 2001, the proportion of foreigners was 29 percent and has now increased to 44 percent. [[Abg. May. Worm: How many of them are u-hookers?]] - I'll tell you that! Now, when we look at the international comparisons – we have asked messages from all countries what the share of foreigners in the other countries is – we see that the proportion of foreigners in Austria is highest. Germany has an alien share of 29 percent, Italy 33 percent, Malta 35 percent, Holland 39.5%, Sweden 27.4%, Spain 27.1 percent and the UK 12.16 percent. There is only a higher proportion of foreigners in Liechtenstein. There it is 90 percent, but that is not comparable, because there are ten prisoners in total, of which nine are foreigners. And San Marino has a prisoner – that is, 100 percent, because he's also a foreigner. But this cannot be compared immediately. Let us now look at the situation in the new accession countries: Compared to the “old Europe”, the proportion of foreigners in prison is much lower. Estonia, for example, has 6.3 percent, Lithuania only 0.5 percent, Poland 1.36 percent, Slovakia 2.30 percent, Slovenia 6.6 percent and Hungary 4.3 percent. Let us return to Austria and take a look at what countries of origin are actually these high numbers of foreign prisoners in our home country! At stand 1.12. we had 450 Nigerians, 404 Yugoslavs, 303 Romanians, 270 Georgians, 260 people from Turkey – and this list could be continued in further succession. Of course, we have been thinking from the Ministry of Justice about how it can happen that the arrest figures have developed so dramatically. In this context, my predecessor, Dr. Böhmdorfer, commissioned a study at the Institute of Legal and Criminal Sociology in Vienna. This study has produced very interesting results. For example, during the comparative period, I have to say that; this study ran from 2000 to 2002, i.e. a period of three years – according to crime statistics, the number of suspects diagnosed increased by 3.4 percent, but the total number of prisoners increased by 12.7 percent. That's very interesting, too. There has been a marked increase in the number of young people who have been detained, which I am particularly concerned about, because criminality is an essential intervention in personal freedom. Youths aged 14 to under 18 have experienced a 25 percent increase in detention. The increase in detentions in Germany has increased by 9.6 percent, but only in Vienna – if we see this in relation – has been 29.5 percent, even 39.6% in 2002. If we now look at this in the light of citizenship or of the country of origin, the number of foreigners who were also detained in prison was relatively stable in the federal states between 2000 and 2002, but in Vienna, in particular, there was access from two groups. – This is really very interesting now, because we will find it again in the asylum figures that I would like to come back to later. – These two groups are in particular Eastern European countries – but not the new EU Member States – and African countries. Some 600 Eastern Europeans and 400 Africans were imprisoned in the comparison period from the explosive of the Vienna Regional Court alone. This trend – this study only observed this until 2002 – has now been observed throughout Austria, also in the federal states. When we look at the crime areas, it turns out that the crime areas are commercial or difficult to qualify thefts, but are also addicts. If we split this back into countries of origin, it becomes clear that, in particular, the people from Eastern Europe who have been convicted and who have actually been in prison have committed large-scale crimes in the field of wealth, while the black Africans have been held in criminal custody for most of the crimes committed in the drug sector. It is also noteworthy in this context, according to this study, that the number of U-hookers has increased disproportionately, especially in the field of the national court for Vienna. But more severe punishments are also recorded at the hard core of the offenders. Let us now make the Connex between criminal and asylum applications or people with no residence right: We have also been able to record in recent years that more and more people who are in prison or U-port are applying for asylum while still in prison. There are unfortunately – I have to say: unfortunately; but the necessary reasons for this to change, I have already met – in the field of the Ministry of Justice no statistical records on how the residence status of the people who are in prison with us is actually. We have already “shortened” ourselves here with the Ministry of the Interior; the surveys have shown that in the last five months alone about 100 people from prison or U-port have filed an asylum application. It is also important – and I take this data from the crime statistics and the security report, which you all already know and which has already been discussed in the House – for the breakdown of the suspects by the individual nations; and here there is also a statistics on the status of residence: For Nigerians, those who were guilty are 69.91 percent asylum seekers and 4.58 percent are not legally resident. Among the Georgians – in other words, with our core group, which is making problems here – 72.55 percent are asylum seekers and 7.57 percent are not legally resident. If we look at Moldova – another core country that is currently preparing for us in the area of increasing numbers of foreigners in the field of foreigners – 54.85 percent of the suspects of asylum and 22.62 percent of those who are not legally resident are. - So far, so good. These figures – these are statistical figures or figures from investigations and studies, which we have initiated in the field of justice and which we have compared with the crime statistics – can be seen that the question of asylum and also the question of asylum seekers or people who are not legally resident in Austria is actually a problem to be solved. In particular, we have to focus on two groups of people from two groups of countries of origin. These are, on the one hand, people from Black Africa and, on the other hand, people from Eastern Europe, not those who come from the new Member States. For this reason, it is also so important from the point of view of the Ministry of Justice that it is necessary to change the asylum procedure and also in the field of the Foreign Law so that we can get to grips with this situation. For us, it is particularly important that asylum procedures can be removed as quickly as possible. This should apply in particular to those people who have become guilty of criminal offences, including those who make an asylum application out of detention or detention. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4573	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current hour from the Rules of Procedure is limited to 5 minutes. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Donnerbauer. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4595	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present to you today a case on this subject at the beginning of the day how it happens in our country every day, how it is almost part of the daily bread also of the dishes in Austria. A couple – we call them Beata and Roman M. – both in the 1930s, Polish citizens and thus since 1st century. In May, EU citizens, who have a secondary employment in Austria, also have a secondary employment, which, however, provides them with a very lucrative income, both in Polish and in Austrian circumstances: They are members of a tow ring and transport together with at least ten other partners Foreigners illegally from Austria to other EU countries, especially Italy. Overall, this criminal organization alone has illegally moved hundreds of strangers within Europe in recent months. – But these are only cases that have been admitted by the perpetrators or which have been clearly demonstrated to them. As I said, this is not a hypothetical case, it is a reality in Austria. The perpetrators I have spoken about here have been legally sentenced by an Austrian criminal court in the last few weeks and will also pay and settle their imprisonment in Austria – and at the expense of Austrian taxpayers – over the next eight months to two years. But why am I describing this case to you here and in connection with today's subject? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Exactly!]] – I should like to come back to that immediately, Mrs Colleague: Quite simply because, in the case mentioned by me, all the members of this towing ring, this organization, have, without exception, confirmed that they have only “moved” asylum seekers, picked up asylum seekers from Traiskirchen and transported them to Italy and to other EU countries. And I mean, that's the special thing about this case. This shows us that people who, under the pretext that they are seeking protection from persecution in Austria, actually have a different meaning – otherwise they would stay in Austria, wait for their asylum procedures and not be transported by illegal tow organisations throughout Europe and around the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, this impression to be won here is also reinforced by the fact that, as Mrs Partik-Pablé mentioned today, between January and October 2004 already 9 246 asylum seekers were suspected of specific criminal acts. This represents an increase of almost 50 percent compared to the comparison period 2003. I can also point to experiences of the border army – I come from a border area. The staff working there do very good work – and one should also thank them for the work done in the interest of the Austrians – but they report to me on various occasions, on events, on visits to the respective army posts, above all on their frustration: their frustration that they are taking action here, illegally attacking visitors in Austria and taking appropriate measures in this regard – but that these people will be released immediately, even if they are suspected of criminal acts, and are often taken back to the border after a few days or a few weeks. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] I say quite clearly: This is not a question of xenophobicity. It is not a question of discriminating people who seek protection in Austria, who need protection from persecution, or of refusing to protect them. But it is also a matter of using the security of Austrians who need to have equal regard for legitimate security interests, and here, people who have been set up for their protection and serve their protection are misusing and, under the pretext of seeking asylum, are trying to commit criminal acts in Austria or to enter Austria. I should therefore like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, and I should particularly like to address this request to the members of the opposition, and to invite you to participate constructively in the newly inspected novel of the Asylum Act, to address this problem in constructive terms – and this problem is not going beyond that – in order to protect, on the one hand, those who seek protection from persecution in Austria, on the other hand, those who need protection from this protection effectively, but on the other hand also to preserve the security interests of Austrians and to avoid abuse as much as possible. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4643	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4662	Mr President. High house! If Mrs Partik-Pablé comes down with syrenous shawls, you still don't want to follow her on the island. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I don't want you there either, on the island!]] And if she speaks of the fact that in the EU we had accepted that a parallel society was in existence, that there was in fact no real integration, and textbooks quoted,...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4694	I would ask the speaker not to turn his back constantly, Mrs Mag. Stoisits!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4721	... in which hatred is called, and then on the other Seite Klubobmann Scheibner goes to the festival “25 Years of Islamic Faith in Austria” and can be courted there in the presence of the Federal President,... – No, of course not, I just wanted to point to the ambivalence of your politics and the ambivalence of what you are talking about and what you are doing. [[Abg. Scheibner: So this is a cowardice! What does that mean? – You won’t prescribe where I’m going!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You weren't there! - That's stupid! That's stupid!]] If Mrs Partik-Pablé also speaks about it and the chain manufactures: Requests for asylum – federal care – then become criminal and drug dealing – then comes the matter of this current hour, which reads as follows: “Impacts of illegal residence and criminal tourism on the Austrian criminal justice” a little closer. That's why you're doing it! You say you're not a stranger – you always say so – but that's exactly what you're really talking about. I would like to say in advance: For the so-called "criminal tourism" – a wonderful freedom of speech that could be dealt with separately – the Minister of the Interior is primarily responsible for the so-called "criminal tourism". There have been dramatic savings in the police in recent years. Under their aegis, crime rates have increased since 2000 from 500 000 to 700 000, and the education rate has fallen from 50 percent to 37 percent. [[Call to the liberals:The imported crime!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: And the customs guard abolished!]] When it comes to asylum law, I note: It is in the interests of both the asylum seekers and of the Austrian society that there are legal procedures and that these procedures are also properly concluded. And for this to happen, there is a need for sufficient staff both at the Federal Asyl Office and at the independent federal asylsenate, which is chronically subdivided, which is why many, many procedures are pending. I am quite political with President Küberl, who classified your asylum policy as follows. He says that all this asylum policy and these asylum novels are “fucking after... a bad novel. ” ‘... you can’t operate asylum policy by detachment of legal protection.’ To you, Minister Miklauch – Mr Küberl continues to say regarding custody: “I am not aware that someone from prison had filed an asylum application.” And also about a statement by Minister Strasser, Mr Rauch, you can read – because you always operate on individual cases: “Numbers of convicted criminals who apply for asylum in prison are not available according to smoke. Such data would be ‘statistically not recorded’.” – That’s how it is. That's true. Your philosophy: To operate from individual cases and then generalize. What you're planning is what Constitutional Lawyer Funk says, namely: You really want to insure society with your asylum law. They want to achieve a concept that is completely different from our legal tradition with the security you plan to do with this preventive. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Drug dealing is also strange!]] They want to put legal standards out of effect. That's your option! If one really looks at the statistical figures on the convictions, then one comes to see that in 2004, calculated from January 2004, there were 199,000 suspects of crime, and 9 200 of them were refugees – that is, 4.6 percent. The real abuse committed in this society begins somewhere else. The real abuse, that is the one you commit daily: with the amendment of the Austrian high school law, with the abolition of the directly elected federal representation of the Austrian high school. This is democratic abuse! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] With the removal of democratic electoral results in the main association of social security institutions, where 3 million unemployed persons have the same right to vote as 300,000 self-employed: This is democratic abuse! With the fact that there is still no repair of the local knowledge of the Constitutional Court on the part of the Federal Chancellor to date: This is democratic abuse...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4817	Please, let's finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4838	I come to the conclusion: Your foreign people's desire, your "ordinary employment policy", your "blood cleaner of democracy" and your het: [[Abg. May. Molterer: What?]] This is democratic abuse!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4874	Ladies and gentlemen, I am still giving you the opportunity to take back the expressions ‘blood cleaner’ and ‘hetze’.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4889	Mr President, in this case I have brought exclusively quotations from the Freedom Party and from its former chairman, Haider. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where?]] I couldn't say that in the short run of the final sentence. That is why I cannot take back anything because it is the quotations of the FPÖ and of its chairman.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4946	I'm going to get to the record and then decide if I'm going to give a call for order or not. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes, please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Is the Haider getting a call for order?]] Mr Böhmdorfer is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e4988	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It may be, Mr Posch, that with polemics and false comparisons, one can or may want to divert a bit from the subject here, but the fact is that you do not want to see a problem that is really one, and the Minister of Justice should have the assurance of the Freedom Party that we do not abandon it on this issue of increasing crime, in this difficult situation. We have a huge problem with the foreigners in Austrian prisons, which must also be expressed in numbers: In recent years and decades, we have a stable share of domestics in Austrian prisons or judicial institutions. This figure is: 5 000. It has been growing rapidly since 2000, but not because of changed laws, but the laws already existing at that time, Mrs Worm, are still being applied by independent judges. [[Abg. May. Worm: Who has been in the government since 2000?]] And we now have 4 000 foreigners permanently in the Austrian prisons. 5 000 people, 4 000 non-Austrian. Old stock, so to speak, has always been there: 2 000 non-Austrian, and another 2 000 new stock. The Minister for Justice has already said this: The increase in the number of foreigners in the Austrian prisons is from 28 to 44 percent. With this share of foreigners in its judicial institutions, Austria is the top leader in Europe in its prisons! There you can't do anything with distraction debates, such as by shackles or due release, and you can't do anything – don't deceive the population! – because it is practically exclusively those who are being investigated, and you cannot release them conditionally or send them on the journey with shackles. I just can't do that. Safety in Austria is increasingly at risk. I acknowledge that it is also a problem for me personally as the former head of the department when the staff is reduced, but we also have to bear in mind that, of course, we have put in place many organizational measures that will facilitate this area. However, we must also call on the countries to make a contribution to the health costs that the budget is making. And I would also like to appeal to the Minister of Health here, because in the Austrian prisons there are hundreds of people in total mental illness who are not responsible for their actions. These have long been assigned to the health authorities according to international standards, which cannot be imprisoned in prisons. There is an up-to-date move – an appeal that I would like to express quite clearly here. But please also take note of the costs, and consider what we can do with foreign prisoners: We can't resocialize them anyway! They are prisoners from 109 nations. They cannot do work for these prisoners in Austria if they were in prison and are released. They only burden our expenses, and we can't help them. I was particularly hurt that Mrs Thurnher’s “ZiB 2” said in the ORF that the project of a prison building in Romania was expensive. In fact, it is true that the prisoners in their home countries could be better resocialized, because in Romania, for example, the construction of a prison costs a tenth to a twenty-fifth of that sum – Mrs Thurnher says “pricedly” – which he would have cost or cost in Austria. One can carry out the punishments there, one can resocialize the prisoners there, in their homeland, and one can try to give them work there. I do not think that these projects should be interrupted or countered by them. Consider the costs we have in Austria, or the resources we spend, that are pointless, because we do not spend them on re-socialisation: We have 4,000 foreigners in the Austrian prisons. These cost 120 € each day – consider transport costs, interpreting costs, performance costs and so on – and 365 days a year. That's 179 million euros a year! The legal budget is almost € 1 billion, a little less. The entire budget for the execution is € 279 million. That is to say, the share of foreigners in the Austrian prisons already consumes more than half of the share that is made available for the execution of the sentence. You really can't say that's not a problem anymore, but you have to think about it. I also do not understand the judges who oppose a second prison and a second court in Vienna, which we need bitterly, because we cannot constantly transport the overhanging of foreigners through the city with the buses; that is a security risk. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] Therefore, an appeal to all: Please take the problem more seriously than before! Look at things! Help the Minister of Justice to resocialize, namely in the home countries! And think also of the EU that really has an obligation in its home countries – you laugh, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that now –:... [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5029	Mr President, that was a long conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5047	... – yes, he's just about to finish –: We have 650 prisoners coming from EU countries!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5074	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5093	Dobro jutro! Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! No responsible politician, no responsible politician in Austria, would act with increasing crime and, at the same time, falling awareness of the investigation, he/she would give little importance to this problem. For me, as a Member of the Greens and the Greens as a whole, certain facts from the crime and security report presented to Parliament each year, but also from the figures that the Minister of Justice has told us today, are very important facts as to how, on a political level, the responsible Federal Ministers and Federal Ministers – in this case by Mrs Miklauch – can be acted on by the Austrian National Council as well. Nothing would be more dangerous than the subjective sense of security, but also the objective threat to the security of the Austrians as well as the inhabitants of that country to speak small or to appreciate it. That is why we take very seriously, ladies and gentlemen, the figures provided by the Security Report and what the criminal statistics that have now been published on a monthly basis provide Parliament with data. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not want to address what Mrs Partik-Pablé has done in the first ten minutes of this current hour, namely to go flat-rate over everything that is foreign to this country, i.e. not Austrian citizenship. Mr. Minister Extraordinary Böhmdorfer helped her well when he started his speech with the words: “We have a huge problem with foreigners”. Ladies and gentlemen! We also have a problem with the domestics who become criminal and sit in Austrian prisons because crime as such is a problem and is a major challenge for politics. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am more than disappointed about your ten-minute speech, which you have presented to us here, because nothing you have said would not also be read in this thick 2003 security report which has already been sent to Parliament in July, which has already been treated in the National Council, but not in the public, so that others can participate in it, but also secretly, silently and silently in the Committee on the Interior, not publicly, without public perception. [[the speaker shall keep a copy of it up to date]] You go here, quote facts from this report for nine and a half minutes during the first public debate and end your ten-minute opinion in the last 40 seconds with the following solution proposal – and that by the Minister of Justice! – that is, with the solution proposal – I mentioned it –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] We need to speed up asylum procedures. Yeah, I'm telling you. We must do this very well, we must do so as quickly as possible. – Mrs Minister, with all due respect to this proposal, have you ever said that to the Minister of the Interior? Have you ever told the Federal Chancellor that this is an important point? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The opposition has been making these proposals for years, because these are the essential points. Statistics can be interpreted or read in this way, so to speak, everyone in the way they need it; the FPÖ needs statistics to be used for the flat-rate discrimination against foreigners in Austria. We Greens are trying to draw conclusions from it and say that the problem of increasing the crime of people of Georgian nationality living with different status here in Austria, including the status of asylum seekers, is a challenge for the Austrian security executive on the one hand, but also for Austrian justice on the other. That is why, for me, we have very clear and clear proposals for solutions. Mrs Minister, I am not going to talk to those of you who are overcrowded in prisons in Austria. We are on this point on the average of the old EU countries in a embarrassing situation with high numbers. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] - That's my closing point. – That’s why the prisons are empty, asylum procedures are accelerating, resources for the first and second instance. This increases the rule of law and security in Austria, but not mere polemics!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5196	Next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5214	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs Stoisits, why did you not agree to the 2003 asylum law last year? – That would have been a law to speed up asylum procedures! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: It was unconstitutional!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] It is quite simply a fact that 39 percent of all suspects in Vienna are foreigners in 2004 to date, throughout Austria 28.2 percent. It is clear that if asylum proceedings last a long time, then of course some people who do not receive the status of an asylum seekers for several years may slip into crime. If you had agreed, we would have done so together, then it would not have been the decision of the Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Oil: What?]] [[Abg. Sburny: Then it would be just as unconstitutional!]] Whether in Austria criminal tourism is indeed mainly committed by tourists can't be said exactly. The fact is, however, that tow and trafficking are precisely recognized by the active executive. It is not true that the executive does nothing about it. On the contrary! The police reforms are now being used to ensure that the security executive has more time to take care of these things too. By the way, we must no longer see this abuse of asylum. We simply have to make sure that someone who has already been sentenced in Austria is not able to seek asylum after the end of his imprisonment or just before the end of his detention. I can't do that! That would not be understood by the Austrians either. These two types of crime must be combated throughout Europe. It is also true that the European Council of Ministers for the Interior and Justice took place on 25 and 26. A multiannual programme on justice and home affairs was set up in October. Since the mid-1990s, criminal tourism and organised crime have been a topic throughout Europe. Measures must be taken in this respect. Of course, we would be very pleased if you agreed to an asylum law early next year, which introduces such intensifications. Then you can show what solution you have and what you want to do so that asylum procedures are shortened and asylum seekers who have become criminal can no longer stay in Austria. Then you can show what solutions you have. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Especially those who really need asylum should be granted this more quickly. Mr. Posch has criticized Mr. Scheibner for being a member of the "25 Years Islamic Association in Austria" event. – I believe that the SPÖ in Vienna is showing how it really deals with integration. I myself go to Islamic religious communities and make it clear there again and again what is really necessary in terms of integration. They always say foreigners don't have to be able to German to integrate. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Who says that?]] - Set Please take other measures on integration in Vienna! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They're all just lip confessions! Also on the subject of safety you only give lip confessions. I was having fun and went to your homepage. There I have seen, your security concept includes just 355 words. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: Oh!]] It is not at all designed, and you do not put any solutions in it at all! You still have the opportunity, for example, to agree to the police reform at the next item on the agenda, so that you can finally show the Austrians that you are serious and that you are not alone in producing, criticizing and declaring everything bad.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5344	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5363	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners on the gallery and on TV! If the previous speaker has said that she has wondered that the Constitutional Court – I think – has similarly declared that it has withdrawn parts of the Asylum Act, and we only have to agree, then, I believe, she has not understood much of the Austrian federal constitution. The rule of law guarantees that the constitutional judges can decide autonomously and alone. - Thank God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] For weeks now, the topic of asylum seekers has been dealt with in the media and has repeatedly been reported by FPÖ and ÖVP politicians on “punitive” asylum seekers. In this context, I would like to mention Mr Strasser in particular. In a "standard" interview, Mr. Strasser found that the number of suspect asylum seekers had increased to 47 percent within one year. But if you look at these statistics of the Ministry of the Interior with accuracy and seriousness, you can see the following picture: 28.2 percent of all suspects are strangers, of whom 16 percent are suspect asylum seekers. But what does it look like for all the suspects who were found to be guilty of crime, namely, domestics and foreigners? – That's where the proportion of suspect asylum seekers is 5 percent. There is therefore a five percent share of suspect asylum seekers in all suspects, domestics and foreigners! This must be noted. I don't want to be beautiful, but it's only 5 percent – no more and no less. But if the Minister of the Interior interprets his own statistics so beautifully or so and so presents them to the public, I wonder: [[Abg. Grossruck: The best interior minister for a long time!]] What does the Minister of the Interior intend to do with this? Does he want to distract from his own inability? Does he want to distract from being responsible for the highest crime rate in the Second Republic, the lowest Enlightenment Rate of 38.5 percent and a complete disaster in asylum policy? Essential parts of the Asylum Act have been repealed! And what does the Minister of the Interior do? – He does one thing: He seeks guilty ones, according to the motto “attack is the best defense. ” Once the constitutional judges are guilty, another time the authorities are guilty, the asylum authorities, a third time he delivers a number battle with the national leaders. This does not remove any case of asylum abuse in that country. The Minister of the Interior is looking for the guilty – just not with him! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and the ÖVP, have been working in this government for four years. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Thank God!]] They had the time and the opportunity – and still have them – to do something about it. But you have only one point to point out: a disastrous balance sheet in security policy and asylum policy! And this is tragic for the population, for the people in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What pains me particularly in this debate is the way in which crime is debated, that asylum seekers should be the culprits above all. It means: Asylum seekers are criminal. – This is a problem that hurts. This aggravates the climate and is not worthy of our Republic and our policy as we would wish. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who says that?]] We want a humane and democratic Austria, not a reduction in democracy, whether it be restrictions on the legislature, whether it be in high school or elsewhere where. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5456	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5474	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Wurm, Mr Posch, you really see the helplessness on this issue as you deal with this so important matter. Helplessness, therefore, because you do not want to take note of – and your speeches are always in favour of leftist ideology – Mr Posch, about which we are free. We are concerned with the rule of law, we are talking about legality. We are talking about fighting injustice so that the right to break through, Mr Posch. We are not concerned with the left utopia you implemented here in the eighties and nineties, which are the root of these problems. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Look You once after Germany, where the concept of multicultural society has always been held high! The same experts who prayed to us at that time are only more ashamed of the “parallel society” today because they have seen that this concept has simply failed. Today it must be noted that the third generation of immigrants speaks badly German and is less integrated than the first generation because they have their own institutions, their own kindergartens, their own schools, their own jobs, shops and leisure facilities. That's the system you wanted us to order. We have always said integration before new immigration. The rule of law should also be given priority in asylum law. Help and support for all those – but only for all those who are really persecuted and need this support, but all rightful against those, this rule of law and asylum law for other purposes. That is why we are concerned, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you say, Mrs Wurm, that view means that every asylum-seeker is a criminal, then you have not understood it! I'm sorry, but maybe you'll listen a little bit, and we can still convince you. It is not a question of saying that every asylum seeker is a criminal, but the facts, Mrs Wurm, must also take note of you. [[Abg. May. Worm: The picture conveys you!]] – No, we don’t convey the picture, you just want to create it all the time, because you are also making politics with fear of the elections, both among foreigners and asylum seekers. That's your picture you're creating, we don't want it! But we want to see the facts here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If there is a 20 percent recognition rate for asylum applications, it is known that 80 percent of asylum seekers were not able to provide sufficient asylum grounds. The following is also interesting: The PISA study has rightly been discussed for many days, which is an important topic. But security in Austria is also an important issue! Only one day has been discussed about the statistics on asylum seekers who came to the public a few days ago. On the second day it has already been said that the statistics are wrong. Then there was no more talk about it. What has been said in this study, ladies and gentlemen? – That in Vienna, for example, of 2,600 people who are dealing with drugs – not because of drug use, but because of drug trafficking! – have been indicated, 1,500 black Africans were, and 98 percent of them asylum seekers. That's not a panic. That's numbers. 98 percent of these were asylum seekers. So: Are the people we are supposed to support because they are politically persecuted, or are the criminals, Mrs Worm, against whom we have to act? [[Abg. May. Worm: The Interior Minister...!]] We have to prevent this in the interests of the Austrians and in the interests of those who come to Austria because they actually have asylum grounds! That would be our common task. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, you prevent this because you do not want to admit that your utopias are simply failed. This is a fact, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Abg. May. Worm:...! That would be the job of the Minister of the Interior!]] The new asylum law has made an improvement, especially in the third-country legislation, that asylum seekers must wait for their asylum procedures in the first country in which they are resident and wherever they are safe, with exceptions. An exception is for example a traumatisation, i.e. if an asylum seekers states that he has been traumatised, he can wait for his procedure in Austria. That's what I'm asking myself: Who are these asylum seekers informed of, so that suddenly almost everyone said they were traumatized? It is also to be questioned which institutions are there at work, which informers are there at work, those people who seem to be unable to provide sufficient asylum grounds give advice on how to apply for asylum proceedings under the laws in Austria, and then subvert them, as the Court of Auditors have already noted, namely that 42 percent of asylum seekers do not wait for their asylum proceedings at all, but rather subvert them. – We are concerned about these questions! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you are working on a really good asylum law, which distinguishes between those asylum seekers who need our support because they are really persecuted, and those asylum seekers who misuse the right to asylum and become criminal!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5585	The last speaker was Mr. Dr. Pilz. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5604	Ladies and gentlemen! Statistics can make everything possible, even if they have not even been faked. I'm just telling you one example. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Are you doing this?]] A much clearer statistics could be like this: 100 percent of those who misuse the gift tax law in Austria are Finance Ministers. Nevertheless, no one would conclude: That is why the Ministry of Finance must be abolished! That would be a very bad end. If you rightly note that there is a high proportion of asylum seekers and asylum seekers in the lower members of drug crime, then it is not the only possible conclusion to break the Austrian Constitution, break the Convention on Human Rights, break the Convention on Refugees and decide to adopt simple Austrian laws against the Austrian Constitution by a majority in this House. That's not the only way! Fortunately, there are also other possibilities. But first, you have to agree on what the problem is. I am now only giving back what I was concerned about and in this work I am constantly informing overburdened officials and officials of the Federal Criminal Office. They say: Yes, it is true, especially from Nigeria, that a large number of people want to abuse the right to asylum in Austria to deal with drugs on the Austrian roads, not only in Vienna! – There is no excuse at all for this, and there are relevant Austrian criminal laws for that. Now the Federal Criminal Office has a problem: It is known that every street dealer they arrest will be replaced by another one who comes to Vienna or elsewhere. The criminal police point only to one thing: As long as the drug problem is not solved as such, the police-known street-dealer is replaced only by the police-known street-dealer because of the free-black crime policy. That is one of the main reasons why, despite your seemingly hard fight against crime, the figures in this area have exploded almost exclusively under your government, and the abuse of asylum rights has taken very, very problematic forms. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] There are two realistic ways to counter this, and you have to choose one of the two: Almost everyone who comes mainly from Nigeria and deals with drugs on the streets in Austria comes from Italy. You can make a political proposal and say: We terminate the Schengen Treaty and do not reintroduce normal border controls against Italy, but completely close the border! We have only one chance if you want to go this way: to build a new Iron Curtain against drug crime to Italy at the end of the day. If you think that's good – and the Freedom Party clearly means that – then make this proposal! We believe this proposal, and not only because we believe that the solution must and will, for many, many reasons, be a European one. The second possibility is to meet an urgent request from the criminal police. The criminal police say – and there they do not distinguish between government officials and members of the opposition: Please, finally begin with a serious solution to the drug problem itself, so that the police do not have to deal with an unresolved problem again and again! If you can't take the dealers out of the market through criminal police work, you have to try – as in Zurich – to remove the buyers from the market: through state drug programs, through state treatment of drug diseases, through controlled medical delivery of drugs, from substitutes and what else you need in the treatment. You, Minister, must give the police a chance by giving drugs policy a chance. Their mass race only leads to the fact that in a Europe that has to confess and confess itself, the whole thing is turning like in a hamster wheel and the crime numbers are rising. Give a serious drug policy a chance! Then help the Austrian criminal police for the first time. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is strange that on the question of a new drug policy there is obviously an alliance for the future against the current policy of the Federal Government. But if reason is to prevail and have to, then we will try in this way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5652	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5671	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5860	I also announce that the Ninth Report of the Inconsistency Committee was distributed to all members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5878	Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, asked for the written question put to the agenda before the entry into force of the agenda 2381/J by Mr Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture concerning 10 years Minister of Education Gehrer – PISA crash: Are the parents guilty? to negotiate urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5903	I would like to sum up the debate on Agenda items 1 and 2, 3 and 4, 5 to 9, 10 to 12, 13 and 14, 15 and 16, 17 and 18 and 19 to 21 of the agenda issued early today, i.e. the agenda issued after the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. We are therefore going into the agenda adopted in that way. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5933	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block period of 10 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ per 175 minutes, free 120 minutes as well as green 130 minutes. The following speech time agreement was also reached for the debate between around 10 a.m. and 1 p.m.: first of all, one speech per group with 10 minutes each, then one word by a member of the government, then one by one. One speech per group of 5 minutes each, one speech by a member of the government, and one word per group each with 5 minutes, with both members of the government having a total speaking time of 20 minutes. Before the end of the final round, the President-in-Office's speaking time will be distributed among the political groups in such a way that all political groups can still speak evenly. There is also agreement that actual corrections will only be called after 1 p.m. We shall now proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal of the Presidential Conference to give an appropriate signal. – This is unanimously accepted. That is why we are doing so. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (643 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Security Police Act, the Border Control Act, the Federal Law on the Management of the Federal Army in the field of the countries and the Order on the Guards of the Federal Police and the Federal Armed Forces and the Civil Service Law (SPG-Novelle 2005) (723 d.b.) 2. Point Report and request of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the draft Constitutional Law, which lays down the independence and freedom of guidance of legal guardians (724, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e5997	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I am now opening the debate. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. His speaking time, as I just told you, is 10 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6025	Mr President. High house! Today, in the form of a government template, we have to discuss the Security Police Act. If we look at the security balance, which is actually an uncertainty of the current Minister of the Interior, then we must say: That's actually a disaster! This must be noted, above all, when we put it in comparison with the previous 1999 security balance. At that time, the crime rate was still below 500 000, while it is now approaching the 700 000 mark. The education rate has fallen. This figure was over 50 percent in 1999, when there was still a Social Democratic Minister of the Interior. Now she's moving to 37 percent. If you see your attempts to beautify the statistics, then you think that your statistical department is in a beauty salon, because the truth really looks different. Many of those who now sit in front of the TV and watch us will have heard x-times: Breaking into the neighbor's house! They went to the street and saw the shards of a punched car window. It explodes the crime in Austria. You didn't mind. You saved up. You painted the executive! They have tried with some mean methods to actually make only party politics. – That will never be our support, Minister, I can tell you now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We had once had the dubious pleasure, in Hernals, in my district, 17th. Wiener Gemeindebezirk, to discuss where the small world, in which the great one keeps its test, looks like the criminal world in this case: From 2003 to 2004 alone, the number of burglaries increased from 101 to 201 in nine months. There was an increase of 3 to 6 cases during the investigation. Only six cases have been resolved! For office and business premises, the number of collapses increased from 117 to 132, and for restaurants and lodgings from 27 to 35. Cases covered: In 2003, five, 2004 one in nine months. – This is a disastrous balance! [[Call the SPÖ: Madness!]] It is no wonder, therefore, that more and more Austrians in Austria feel insecure – because as an “insecurity minister” they really do not help to increase security in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So that you can't say: That's an opposition that's just messing!, I'm telling you: We will carry a number of points in this Security Police Act – we have insisted on that too. But I'll tell you: For example, in the context of video surveillance in places of higher crime, the solution cannot be: Video surveillance instead of police. - The police are irreplaceable! The executive must also exist in these places. There can be no deviation to any new technologies, to video surveillance or anything else. – But this is, for example, a point that we will carry. Or: Protection zone solution. – Of course, we are interested in the fact that there are protection zones, especially in front of schools and kindergartens, to keep drug dealers away from them. This is a real problem that you have to address and that we will, of course, be involved in the solution, especially since you have not been able to really solve it so far. I could mention several points that are important and where there must be national cooperation so that there is indeed more security in Austria. Minister! Of course, this is also a question, in which one must also have a certain legal understanding and in which decisions taken by the Constitutional Court must be complied with. Mr Minister, you have set up many initiatives in your department, which – you have to say today – have not stood before the Constitutional Court. I do not know which department in your ministry, on the basis of the instructions you seem to have given, does not take into account the fact that you need to produce legislation that holds before the Constitutional Court. There is an entire list, such as civil service law, catering law, asylum law, third-country security, civil service law, where, in order to be able to send ungrateful officials into retirement, you are particularly attached to the Constitutional Court. You didn't care! Staff policy has absolute priority with you! They want a black party book executive. [[Abg. Ellwall: The red-white-red!]] It's detectable! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, even the Constitutional Court has taken a position – even if it does not fit you now! . because the Minister thought of it first and foremost. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] Strasters Credo reads: First of all, I am thinking of the positioning of public officials or public officials close to the ÖVP – and then I am thinking of security! At first I think of the post-posting of ÖVP officials – and then I think of the quality! – That’s the Minister’s thinking step! To do this, you have to say: But this is a strange attitude towards security! But this also shows how indifferent it is to him whether there is more security in Austria, how indifferent it is to him whether there is an insecurity in the Austrian population. It is a whole list of laws in which the Constitutional Court has challenged your steps, Mr Minister. This has been commented on by you in the words: “What’s right doesn’t have to be good!” In other words, we heard it from the Bear valley, where it was: Well, the Constitutional Court has decided, but I don't care! I'll keep looking for a back door somewhere where I'll spend what I've done! [[Abg. Scheibner: Herbs was that!]] Don't be confused! You should concentrate a little more, because now comes a number that you should remember well, namely, 5,300. This is related to the Security Police Act, which is being discussed here today and in which the Minister is doing a washing-up – in addition to a few points that we are carrying out, because we consider them important and therefore also called for – a combination of police and gendarmerie, with the comfortable pleasure that he can re-occupy 5 300 management functions. How will this happen? – Just as it used to be for the liberals in the early days when “blue stone age” once demanded: with tendering and objectiveing? I can tell you: For weeks and months, the black staff representatives have been working on it, looking at it very closely. There have been long lists, real parchment rolls, heavy parchment rolls, where all this is on it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] – That’s “not at all”! They came to the world yesterday, look around innocently, and say, Hey, where's my milk bottle? I want to get to know reality! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Murauer.]] Stop it! You know exactly how that happens. 5 300 wire functions... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kainz.]] Watch out, or you'll lose the job if you call too loud! The Minister may not like that at all. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kainz.]] 5 300 conductive functions shall be occupied with ÖVP partybook carriers: That is the task that the Minister has set himself! But the safety remains on the track. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Now to the mergers. . There was already the Commissioner's merger. Now come to it: Sankt Pölten City, Sankt Pölten Land. In all things, personnel policy is always in the background. That's the decisive part, that plays a role in that! That is why it is so worrying. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] There are, of course, new uniforms in this context. There is also a new signage and label, the service vehicles are repainted. All this costs millions. “Design instead of safety” is the new slogan in the Ministry of the Interior! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kainz.]] I have read about the new uniforms in the “standard”, it is even supposed to be “monarchistically breathed out. ” Of course, the Minister wants uniformity in thinking, unity in the party book, uniformity in the uniform – there is only the Strasser Mask missing, then everyone really looks uniform. [[Sociability and applause with the SPÖ as well as accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Maybe that's the concept. But where is it connected to security? It is also there all cosmetics: Where you don't think anything more, where you're unsuccessful, where the safety balance is a disaster, where people are more and more afraid, because there's more and more uncertainty, because you're breaking into the apartment because the car disk has already been hit and the car cleared out for the second time, there comes the following answer: Cosmetics, design and manipulated statistics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kainz.]] This is a disaster, I tell you! The Austrian population has not deserved this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I am very clear to you: It would be high time that the days of the Minister of the Interior were counted, because we need more security in our country! By the way: The election of personnel representatives was also a very clear signal of distrust, discontent, criticism of how people in the executive will deal with the fact that not only does one take into account the security needs of the population, but also not the officials who are eager to do their job and who really want to contribute to security, but who are prevented from doing so by this party book economy. That's a scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6205	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. 10 minutes speaking time. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6233	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Long ago, the SPÖ Löschnak or Schlögl held responsibility for the SPÖ's security policy. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: It was better!]] Today it's Cap. And that is what SPÖ security policy actually looks like, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Cap, if you have no more to say about this than what you have said today, then this is another proof: With us, security policy is in good hands. [[Abg. May. Worm: We've seen that!]] You do not even take this seriously in Parliament's speeches, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, that is a fact. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Despite Strasser!]] Thank God is so, and it is important to do everything in the interests of people to keep it that way. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser:... ever worse...!]] But precisely because we want this to remain so that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, we must face up to the problems just as openly and honestly Yes, there are problems that we must not deny and should not be deceiving, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You haven't ruined everything yet!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Then look into the mirror!]] Responsibility means facing these problems. We have problems with organised crime – that is so. We have problems with drug crime – that is so. [[Abg. Riepl: You only have problems!]] And we also have problems with criminal asylum seekers – that is so, ladies and gentlemen. You can't talk about that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] How do the parties react? – The SPÖ makes uncertainty policy. The SPÖ speaks insecurely of Austria, ladies and gentlemen. But that's not enough. When it comes to it, the SPÖ is not ready and able to take responsibility! We already know this pattern. First, sick people, but then, when it comes to not having the courage to implement reforms consistently! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Otherwise, it would be impossible to explain that SPÖ, for example, has rejected the Asylum Act. Otherwise it would not be clear that the SPÖ has rejected the Foreign Law. [[Abg. May. Worm:... the constitutional judges have removed!]] Otherwise, it would not be clear that SPÖ has rejected the independence of the legal protection officer – and today will reject it again. [[Abg. Gaál: Unconstitutional!]] And otherwise it would not be possible for SPÖ, for example, to say no in the civil service reform, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Worm: Removed from the Constitutional Court!]] She leaves the SPÖ with courage. And when it comes to the security of Austria, it is not courage that is the recipe, but the consequence and targeted action as we do, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But the discussion at the present hour has also shown that in this context we must deal very intensively with the policy of the Greens. What are the greens doing? - Beautiful the greens. The Greens say: It's not so wild at all! The Greens say: If we do not do anything, we may as much as possible help the wrong! [[Abg. Mandak: But you didn't listen before!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I tell you clearly and clearly: Beautiful isn't the right recipe because when something happened, it's too late, Mr. Van der Bellen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oils: What you're talking about, that's not going on cow's skin!]] What I am particularly thinking about in this regard – and I expect you, Mr Van der Bellen, to clarify this! –, is: If Minister Strasser and colleague Miklauch rightly propose a new right of asylum, an asylum right that combats abuse, do you know what the reaction of the Greens in the person Voggenhuber is? He is calling again for sanctions against Austria! [[Abg. Oillinger: Because it was unconstitutional, you know that!]] [[Höe-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That's the truth, Mr. Van der Bellen! Distance yourself from your Mr. Voggenhuber! He says that he is considering the initiation of a sanctions procedure against Austria. Didn't we? It's known, we haven't forgotten! [[Call the ÖVP: Awesome!]] The Austrians have not forgotten it either. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! This is a irrational policy that harms the security of the country! If Mr Pilz comes to this speaker's desk today and talks about the state drug programme – if you, Mr Pilz, put something like that in your mouth, then I am particularly sensitive and careful. I think that the Greens are facing exactly this decision-making question, don't you beautify – or beautify? [[Abg. Ellmauer: Hash-Trafiken!]] Act – or not act? And: Introducing sanctions against Austria – or fighting for the security of Austria? Decide, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] We from the People's Party do not close our eyes. We do not close our eyes to the problems either. We act consistently and purposefully, on the basis of the rule of law. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, one law after another is repealed!]] That is the policy of our Minister for the Interior Ernst Strasser, and I thank him for this follow-up, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] He also showed this consequence in the budgetary negotiations: With more than 9 percent plus the budget for safety and a significant increase in staff for the safety of Austrians, proof has been obtained: We take security policy seriously, ladies and gentlemen. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] The same applies to the new Security Police Act that we are going to adopt here today. I remember: Already in the 1960s, Olah spoke of a combination of gendarmerie and police. Schlögl wanted it, but was not allowed. In 1995 the then SPÖ security spokesman, Elmecker, said: a project for the next millennium! [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Good man!]] You're right, the difference is just: You have not done it, we are doing it because we are acting in the interests of security and do not hesitate and do not hesitate, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We put the guards together because we are convinced that yesterday's structures are not able to solve the problems of today and tomorrow. These structures from the 1970s, and partly even more backward, have led ladies and gentlemen to the fact that there are differences between customs guard, police and Gendarmerie. This, in turn, means that too much is spent on administration and too little concrete is done on the road for safety. This old structure led us to have a variety of command levels and not a clear and efficient management structure. Therefore, after the customs guard has been integrated into the Ministry of the Interior, we now have the legal basis with this new Security Police Act for that from 1 January. July next year from the police, the Gendarmerie and customs guards will be an efficient and powerful security body in Austria – in the interests of the citizens, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is probably the most important security reform project in this legislative period. At the same time, however, it is also one of the largest administrative reform projects in this legislative period: a command structure in each federal state, a harmonisation of the fight against crime at municipal, district and country level, harmonisation of transport services and a better, clearer and more transparent management structure. Mr Cap, there is, of course, an opportunity for all to participate in these leadership functions in accordance with objective criteria. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] If we did not write, thousands of security staff would be given the opportunity to get leadership at all. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oils: This is hypothetical!]] This law also provides a new basis for preventive measures, which the Austrians have a right to do, for example, with the protection zones. We do so so that we can better protect our children, ladies and gentlemen! By the way, this is the most important thing we can do: To give children protection! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischig: Yes, great! Then do...!]] With these preventive measures and video surveillance, we are able to act even better against organised crime, ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore right to take this step in the sense of security. With the anti-violence file, we create a better overview of the links between organised crime and where these organisations operate, because only a foreign exchange has to apply here and can: uncompromisingly against organized crime in the interests of security! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Worm:... no idea!]] But you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, will obviously not only reject the Security Police Act today and thus take a further step on your zigzag path, but you will also reject the §-27 application for independence of the Legal Protection Officer – in turn, because its independence is obviously of no value and no importance to you. [[Abg. Gaál: We don't have a zigzag path!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Talk time!]] For us from the People's Party, Austria will continue to be one of the safest countries in the future. We act consistently and purposefully in the interests of the security of Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6699	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. His speaking time is also 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6717	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I already know from the history of recent years that after the long-standing partnership between SPÖ and ÖVP there is now something like one – let's call it: Divorce war, hold something rosy war-like, in which the material core of debates is constantly lacking. But security policy is so important and the reform of the security executive is so important that we can save time to prevent this Parliament with dozens of stencils and stencils in a serious debate. That is why I note the following at the outset: I am very glad that it is now at last, with great delay, that it is at the heart of a reasonable reform in the structure. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: To super!]] I am very glad that it finally comes to bringing together police and gendarmerie, because it makes sense because it allows for an actionable and serious safety executive and because it is impossible to explain to anyone why you have different uniform colors, which has long been the same goals and problems. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, exactly!]] [[I should like to congratulate Members of the Green Party, as well as congratulations and congratulations on representatives of the ÖVP and the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] So, like in the case of military defence in this case, we have signaled the Minister of the Interior months ago: If we try to negotiate seriously, perhaps we can jointly decide on a major reform of the security police. [[Abg. Parnigoni: How far have you come with your signal?]] – Then something happened – and this is also a personal experience, it was different from within the framework of the Federal Force Reform Commission – what I might want to tell you with an unwarranted quote, I will explain it even more. I quote: "The SPG amendments adopted by the Council of Ministers in connection with the pooling of guards strengthen country competence. This means that, in the future, all personnel matters – such as post positions in E 1 and E 2a, VB – that is, contract staff – “or administrative officials need the consent of the head of state.” – The consent! – As is already the case with the Gendarmerie, each order document must be signed by the head of state. In the future, I will assert my entire influence at the head of state Dr. Haider...” And, and, and so on, continue! This quote comes from a liberal police officer from Klagenfurt named Horst Binder, whom we all know well from the top coward. [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, be careful!]] This is an announcement, even more so, it is a threat to explain: Ladies and gentlemen, the Security Police Act, as it is now to be decided, gives every head of state and every head of state next to the Federal Minister the right to put in a party political position! This is what is already announced in this document: In Carinthia, there's only police stationing the way they like Dr. Haider. And as they look, we've seen in the past. That is to say, in Carinthia only freedom, in Lower Austria only members of the ÖVP – and wherever the SPÖ would have something to say, a direct influence of the Federal Minister, so that it does not happen anyway. That was the overcoloration. This is not a threat to the future, but we have now experienced these colorings for many years. It was only the party book that was crucial, for example for post-ordering in Vienna. Contrary to tender results, evaluation results: Only the last party had a black party book in the ordering process for a top function in the Vienna police – but of course it has become! I imagine how organized crime is combated after a large amount of anti-thinking and non-colored, black-colored criminal officers have been cleaned out of the criminal police in Vienna. I imagine how this will be with organised crime and its fight in the future. They will try something in Vienna and then say: For God's sake, there are now ODP criminal officers on our heels! – Then, of course, they will leave Austria, for what is more terrible than being persecuted by the ÖVP?- Oh, my God! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Very "serious" debate!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly what the criminal police did, the security executive didn't deserve! We have already talked about the abuse of asylum law today. Mr Molterer. I have – perhaps a little more concrete than you – pointed out that we have a problem with people who come mainly from Nigeria and plan not only to deal with drugs on the streets of Vienna illegally. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Yes!]] And we have pointed out to you that: You only have two possibilities: either to complete the border with Italy, as the Freedom Party has imagined and today has raised quite openly, or to go here and say that we need a common European solution! [[Abg. May. Molterer: What do you say to Voggenhuber?]] But this solution must finally follow the proposals of the criminal officials and not those of the black and blue party politicians! These officials say: Please help us solve the drug problem as such! Please try to get as many addictions away from the street as possible, so that we as a criminal police force have a chance to really fight the crime that is being organized behind it! And what are you doing? – Populist giant racists, where you know that you have to release those you arrest in the early evening, and the people you hold will be replaced a few days later by downstream people from the same country of origin! [[Abg. May. Molterer: What do you say to Voggenhuber?]] They believe the criminal police have something that no criminal police can afford and no criminal police in the world. Ladies and gentlemen! This is populism! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You should really consider whether you are not entirely opposed to your personal will and to your personal intention – because I really don't want to put anything in your mind and not discuss it in your own way, Mr Molterer, but you have to think about it! – with this false crime policy, with these populist mass races and no structural solutions and no real support for the executive behind them, there is no risk of becoming involuntary promoters of illegal drug markets! I am afraid that this point has already been reached, I am afraid that you will already have to face this accusation! And many colleagues in the criminal police see this the same way. Then you submit a law that also includes the following – and I quote you, Mr Molterer: To protect the children in schools, we build protection zones in Vienna! [[Abg. May. Worm: Without personnel!]] I regret that the SPÖ has been put into the populism trap this time and wants to agree. I would just like to point out one point: In your proposal, the radius is 150 meters. In the Committee on the Interior, your experts have said that some 80 schools in Vienna are expected to be protected in a first wave. This together makes an area of 760 hectares and corresponds to about the total area of five districts in Vienna. You think without additional staff you can make 760 hectares in Vienna completely dry free, reject, protect? It's populism! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Absurd!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] You can't do that! You know that this is the biggest accepted malpractice in the fight against drugs in Austria, and yet you suggest something like that – against better knowledge, against any insight! Finally, I would like to say: The question does not arise at the level: The rule of law and the constitution or the fight against crime, but the question arises: serious rule of law and constitutional fight against crime – or crime populism of the liberals, but unfortunately now also the EIA? And it is very easy for us to decide on the Constitution, on the rule of law, on Europe and on a serious criminal policy in Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: And for punishment!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6930	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I shall give Mr Posch a call for an order. Mr Posch – I have now tabled the Minutes – has raised the accusation, in a direction: “Your ‘blood cleaner of democracy’ and your het: This is democratic abuse!" – It was not recognizable as a quote. Even if it had been a quote, this choice of words would not be compatible with the dignity of the House. [[Abg. Oils: You can't say a quote anymore?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But you have to quote it!]] Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e6975	Ladies and gentlemen! In the Committee on the Interior, Mr Pilz, he said he was happy about the reform and he or the Greens would also agree, but he feared political abuse and therefore he could not agree. – Mr Pilz, if you claim that this law gives rise to political abuse – it is obvious that you have not read the law properly. The fact is that it is necessary to reach agreement with the head of state, because security is part of the federalist principle and, of course, security policy should take place as close as possible to the population and, of course, the head of state knows best about human resources. [[Abg. May. Worm: Where's that?]] It has always happened that the central offices have sent people to the federal states that they have set up actions, but they have not been properly effective there at all. In order to give the head of state as a political authority the opportunity to make a policy close to the citizen as possible, it is precisely to reach agreement with him. That doesn't mean he can determine something by his own power. These are your fantasies again, Mr. Pilz. You would have to agree, Mr Pilz, but you do not want to do so because You don't want to be successful with the government. That's why you just retreat. Moreover, as regards staff representatives Binder: They have already widened out in the committee that he has said he is committed to his colleagues. - That's what every staff representative does! It is the job of a staff representative, whether from SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens or Freeman, to stand for his colleagues. Mr Binder did no more and no less. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: But not only for the liberal colleagues!]] Mr Cap, you said today that this law is a “desaster”. – So I have to tell you, I am no longer impressed when you say that is a “desaster”, because with you, everything that this federal government is planning and the majority here also decides is a “desaster”. [[Abg. May. Worm: They're just saying what the shark says!]] You have nothing left for problem solutions. Unfortunately, their policies do not know God's policy of reform, and that is why you say that if structures are built here that are reasonable that are economic, that is a disaster. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... Crime is a disaster!]] You, Mr Cap, have said that many spectators also do not understand this security police law. – I have to say honestly: Many spectators, in particular, do not understand that not everyone is in a position to fight crime effectively. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Today, at the "Current Hour", we have pointed out that many asylum seekers are drug dealers. Instead of all of them saying: We are working together, we are fighting this problem together!, immediately the calls, the negative calls came from the Greens, also from the SPÖ, also from your speakers: No, let's not do anything, let's not talk about it, but let's see that we can get this topic under the carpet! [[Abg. Oils: This is entirely beyond what you say! You're a ghost driver!]] This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oils: This is completely beyond!]] You do not recognise a truly constructive policy in view of the development of crime. Unfortunately, God is. Mr Cap, you also say that this law would offer the opportunity to perform party-political post-ordering. What's the saying? – “As the Schelm thinks, so it is!” For years the SPÖ has set up the Interior Ministers. For almost 50 years, the SPÖ has set up the Interior Ministers alone. [[Call the SPÖ:And it was good!]] Do you know how the structures were then? – 9 Regional Army Commanders has given it all SPÖ – listen! –, 14 Federal Police Directorates, all SPÖ, 14 Criminal Inspectors, all SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] [[Abg. Definitely incorrect!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Ah look here!]] That's how your personnel policy looked, and that's why you think another person does the same. In reality, an objective human resources policy is being made here. There are calls for tender, the most skilled is to be given the post, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaál: Where do you live, Mrs. Deputies?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] But the security police law itself. – Mr Wittmann, you do not even know the law, I suppose you probably have not even read it through. – For 40 years, I have read in the newspaper today – I have persecuted it for only 20 years, I am in Parliament – the ministers have repeatedly tried to do this aggregation. At last, this federal government has become aware of this, has led to real difficult negotiations and has also implemented them. There have been resistances, especially from the Gendarmerie, which did not want the merger. But after very, very long negotiations, it has now succeeded in achieving this consensus. ==References== There will be a uniform watch body on July 1, 2005. It has always been a luxury for Austria to have these two different structures, it was financially a very heavy burden, as economically and so on. In the context of the merger, it will also be necessary to improve the executive, which is extremely important. We liberals have been enormously committed to this because the executive has a very, very difficult task, especially at this time when the perpetrators are becoming more and more threesome, in which the executives are increasingly at risk of getting out of an official act. Therefore, the motivation of the executive must be strengthened. We have maintained that night services are better rewarded that weekend services are better rewarded. From the in-force pace of the Security Police Act, there will be about €70 to 80 per month per executive officer. I think it is really necessary for us to take this step here, and I really regret that the opposition does not want to agree with that, ladies and gentlemen. There has been a great deal of success in this law, because the combination will bring more efficiency, will bring greater economic efficiency and also a more stringent organization. The Minister has set an example in the Committee: At present, a radio strip crew is subject to seven to twelve heads of duty. According to the new law, there will only be a command structure that is subject to this radio strip crew. Now, for example, a divisional official is still subject to the command, the departmental command, the control inspector, the central inspector and the authority. In the future, there will only be the inspection command, the city commander and the state police director. – A simplification that is quite welcome and that makes it possible to make administrative processes easier! In the Committee, Mr Pendl, who is likely to speak today, complained that the staff were insecure because of the Security Police Act. – I would also like to make an accusation against you: In particular, they did not leave an opportunity to increase the uncertainty of the SPÖ in the personnel election campaign. They have, for example, published leaflets, according to which the Minister of the Interior is planning a second weekend of service. – That’s not true at all! I spoke to the Minister of the Interior myself. I've been assured by him that there won't be this second weekend of planning. But you have already presented this as the future goal of the Minister. In fact, 70 percent of security guards are in favour of this merger, because everyone is convinced that less administration can achieve greater efficiency and thus better crime control. A few more words on the other important issues in the Security Police Act. First to the video-watched zones and the protection zones. On the protection zones, I have to say that I was actually less outraged than I was concerned about the criticism that Mr Pilz has just mentioned. He claimed that these protection zones would be inappropriate. [[Abg. Oils: (applying nodding) Yes!]] Mr. Ollinger nods to that. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who speak with school directors today, with parents, hear again and again: The police are coming, the radio strip is moving ahead, but she can't do anything. – She can't do anything if she doesn't catch someone right at the drug deal if she doesn't see how Kugerln is handed over money. [[Abg. Oils: There are protection zones against prostitution, which are of no use at all!]] The creation of the protection zones will enable people who are suspected to be rejected in the future. In view of this, it means that the problem is not properly recognized or taken seriously. For you, drug trafficking is obviously a cavalier crime, Mr Pilz. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Reheis: This is an order call! That's a premise!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: This is a call for order!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We should really agree that children and young people must be protected from drug dealers, by all means! Especially with the protection zone you can do something preventive. We want to prevent young people from becoming dependent and therefore ensure good prevention. Therefore, once again consider your opposition and agree to the Security Police Act! Pull us on a strand!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7224	Ladies and gentlemen! Before speaking to us by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to speak on behalf of you. All welcome an editor of the “Small Newspaper”, Mr Ulrich Stocker, on the jury of journalists. He has been working for the “Small Newspaper” for decades, reported on our meetings on a regular basis and is retired this week. The four clubmen asked me to give you, Mr Stocker, our thanks and all the good wishes for retirement. I am very happy to join him. Good luck! [[General condolences.]] Mr Strasser, Federal Minister of the Interior, is now speaking. Time limit for all members of the government in this debate in the period up to 1 p.m.: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7266	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As always, I have closely followed the statements made by the individual leaders of the political groups, and you simply allow me to clarify the facts that exist not only here in this House, but also in front of the television screens. Tomorrow, as usual for a year on the 10th of the month, the crime statistics are published. Tomorrow, for the first time, we will have to show almost 1 per cent drop in crime throughout Austria and in Vienna, a 7 per cent reduction, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These are the facts – against the background of the great geopolitical challenge through international crime! These are the facts, Mr Cap, which prove that our employees, especially in Vienna – I would like to point this out: especially in Vienna! –, doing excellent work! Because you're the one who's got the power to take over from me. On account of his alleged closeness to the People's Party, I can tell you very clearly, Mr Cap: [[Abg. Gaál: Is not true!]] I am fully behind Director Horngacher, he is doing excellent work with his employees, and it would be nice if you could see this here in the House at last. I thank Director Horngacher for his work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This does not change anything, ladies and gentlemen, that we have in the Austrian executive structures, which were developed 50, 70 years ago and have not been changed since then. We need to see clearly: The threat situation has changed, the tasks have changed, the claims have changed – only the device has remained the same! Therefore, it was right and good that some of my predecessors had already come up with this apparatus to meet the challenges of the 20th or the beginning of the 21st century. ==References====External links== It was Minister of the Interior Olah, who first tried to bring Gendarmerie and Police together in 1963. It was Minister of the Interior, Rösch, who in 1976 wanted to introduce a joint training for senior police officers and the Gendarmerie. I would like to pay particular tribute to the work and also to the efforts of Minister Lösnak in 1990. At that time, almost 15 years ago, he set clear targets for the first time: Fusion of police and gendarmerie, joint training of police and gendarmerie criminals, joint procurement on a leasing basis, joint acquisition of equipment for police and gendarmerie. The then Minister of the Interior, Lösnak, together with Transport Minister Streicher, proposed in 1991 – and also tried to implement it – to bring together police and gendarmerie traffic a “transport cobra” with dark blue vehicles and uniforms. In the mid-1990s, Minister Lösnak succeeded in carrying out a uniform armament of police and gendarmerie. But that, ladies and gentlemen, was it. The then Director-General for Public Security and today's President of the Board of Trustees of secure Austria – I would like to welcome you, Mr President; thank you for attending this debate – said – it was in 2000; I quote the President of the KSÖ: The efforts to make the organization slimmer and more efficient are to be fully supported. Criminals are to be created to eliminate unmistakable double-tracks. - Quote. Yes, Mr President, I give you full rights. We did this, we did it. We have now implemented what should have happened over the past 15 years and will be presenting to you for discussion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The combination of police and gendarmerie makes sense. It is necessary because we still want to remain the safest country in the world. This shows international experience, which the Court of Auditors rightly calls for, says one of the house's minds. I am therefore our Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, who said in a difficult phase for the Republic and for the government at the beginning of 2003: Yes, police and gendarmerie belong together!, very grateful. I must say that a fundamental yes to this union has been expressed at the time by all the parties, by the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Liberals. Unfortunately, then, when it came to concrete, it was no longer possible to obtain this agreement from everyone, but I am very grateful for the fact that the People's Party and the Freedom Party have agreed to this concept in long preparations that have been under way for a year and a half in the Committee on the Interior. It is a guiding project of this Federal Government for greater security for the Austrians, it is part of the government programme, and it will be implemented with your consent in the middle of the term of office of the government of Schüssel II. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Before I reach the goals, I would like to thank our employees in the house. Hundreds of employees started working in more than 20 working groups at the beginning of March 2003 following the government mandate, and in 25 major events over 4,000 people discussed and put forward their proposals, and we have developed this programme and this concept without a cent without a euro of fees for any consultants. I would like to thank the project management under Brigadier Lang for the superhuman work done here in order to have this on the table today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The objectives are known: instead of 45 command structures, nine command structures, i.e. a command in each federal state; slim, clear, transparent structures; a uniform appearance; less administration and more staff for the foreign service. There will be at least 500 people currently engaged in administrative work, after implementation of this new concept for foreign service, for the fight against crime, for street work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will have uniform training, uniform equipment, uniform communication systems, a single crime fight and a single transport service. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] To make this clear: It is also clear from this concept that in this legislative period, there is no further combination of Gendarmerie Posts and Guardrooms. We need our regional structure, we want it, and we will also receive it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So that there is no mistake here: The powers of the countries in relation to the powers of the federal government remain the same. We have not made any changes to the fact that such changes would be reserved for the Convention, and that would be discussed there. In our concept, income neutrality is given to the federal and state states. I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to examine this concept carefully. We would like to ask you to give this concept your consent – it will bring more security to Austria, it will bring more clarity to the Austrian executive, and it will bring reasonable powers to the Austrian federal police from 1. It is also possible to ensure security in Austria in July 2005.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7357	As the next speaker, I shall give the floor to Mr Parnigoni. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7376	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! For us Social Democrats, the security of people in our home country is of great importance. We will therefore give our approval to the introduction of new ways of combating or preventing crime, such as the creation of protection zones or the surveillance of video by the police, the electronic vehicle identification mark and the creation of the Central Violence File. We have succeeded in strong negotiations to convince the EIAs, ladies and gentlemen, that these new measures are designed in such a way that these interventions are in conformity with fundamental rights and comply with the fundamental right to data protection. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP]] This will be confirmed even by the Minister, Mr Kößl. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Socialists acknowledge that there are new technologies for the purpose of campaigning or prevention, which can also be used because these new measures bring more security to the population. Not only do we Members have great responsibilities, but also the Minister of the Interior and the Executive will in future be given great responsibility in dealing with these new measures, the High House. It cannot therefore be established that zones of protection are established, but they will not be monitored accordingly to the potential for risk. Parents must be able to assume that the executive ensures special protection in these zones and that their children are not confronted with drug crime or other forms of crime. In the Committee, experts have clearly stated that these new tasks can only be carried out by more staff. The Minister believes, however, that this is not necessary. I appeal to you, Mr Federal Minister, in the interests of the children: Do not deceive the public, provide the necessary staff for these additional measures! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This also applies to video surveillance. This only makes sense if it is used in addition to police work on the street. In this context, I am opposed to the malicious submissions by Mrs Partik-Pablé, who here states that we have no power to agree on such measures. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: ‘ Willingly, ’ it was not!]] I strongly reject this, Mrs Partik-Pablé. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Bundesminister Strasser, you are celebrating the merger of Gendarmerie and police to the new guard body “Bundes Police”. We Socialists are skeptical of whether it is an advantage, historically grown, but also today, to deliberately tear down meaningful structures. Because it's clear: There are different security needs in the city and in the countryside. It is unacceptable, Mr Minister, that you, with the transitional provisions, establish that all the management functions – that has already been addressed; according to your own data, this is 5 300! - to be re-subscribed. Because what will happen? – The entire police system will therefore be involved in applications and negotiations in the assessment commission after today’s decision-making process. The first Mobbing cases have already become known, where future competitors are already being denunified by anonymous ads. Federal Minister! This procedure you choose with this law is simply without responsibility! And that is why we strongly reject it. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] High house! The fight against crime will inevitably come into the background in 2005 and this in the event of dramatic crime development. Federal Minister! They account for an increase of significantly more than 40 percent. So if you celebrate a percent drop now, it is more than polemic and a clear deception of the population about the state of security in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! It is clearly about maintaining security in this country, but also about the fact that in the future the executive officials do not have to worry about their function and career. It has been clearly demonstrated during the personnel representation elections: Those who feel insecure have given a clear answer and have expressed great confidence to the social democratic staff representatives. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I therefore warmly congratulate the staff representatives present here. [[Bravorufe and congratulation at SPÖ.]] I would also like to thank all executive officials for their excellent work despite the most adverse circumstances that this Minister has indebted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7470	The next speaker was Mr Kößl. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7489	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I will say a few more words on Mr Parnigoni's comments, but first of all: Today is a historic day for the executives in Austria. With today's revision of the Security Police Act, the merger of the guards of the police and the Gendarmerie is decided to become a uniform federal guard body. As a gendarmerie official, who also knows the history of the Gendarmerie very well, I do not like today's decision. But today it is not about personal circumstances, but about new structures in the field of security, so that the ==References====External links== ==References====External links== It is therefore a matter of greater security for the population, it is not a matter of self-interest. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today's amendment to the Security Police Act will take many important measures – they have already been addressed today – which will enable the executive to take more effective action, but also serve as a preventive measure to prevent criminal acts. Drug crime and the fight against drug dealers in schools and thus the introduction of protection zones were addressed. Furthermore, the introduction of video surveillance has already been addressed today. It is a very important preventive measure that such video surveillance is carried out in particularly endangered and exposed places – the installation of violent files also to list some here. On the other hand, after today's decision-making, the century-old project of bringing together the guards of police and Gendarmerie can be transformed into a single federal guard body. Why is this merging of the guards of such great importance? – Not only because the Court of Auditors has called for many years, but because the challenges in the field of security and the threat situation have changed considerably. It has already been referred to by our Federal Minister today: because we are no longer able to achieve this with the existing structures which have ensured the security of the population in the 1970s and 1980s. Policy is required to fit the executive for the 21st century. ==References== What changed? – With the disappearance of the Iron Curtain and with the progressive globalisation, with the collapse of the states by enlargement in Europe, the resulting open borders, with the removal of visa requirement in different countries and the resulting international migration – and the social gap between East and West in Europe – a significant increase in criminal tourism and organised crime and thus international crime has resulted. In order to counter this development, it is necessary to pool the forces. This is done with the joining of the guard bodies into a uniform federal guard body. What do you understand under the bundle of forces? – This means the removal of double conductivity and overlaps. This means a state police command with a slim management and administration level for every federal state – that has also been addressed. This means more staff for the foreign service and thus more on-site security for the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This means that for the administrative and internal service operations, the structures become more compact, the information faster, the paths shorter and the employees are more efficient. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me say a thank you to all those who have worked in these many months of creating structures for waxing together. All the executive bodies concerned have made their contribution here. I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior and his team, Brigadier Franz Lang and the many hundreds of officials of the Executive. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I am confident that we are on the right path in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7565	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Ladies and gentlemen, you too have 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7583	Dobar then, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mrs. Minister! Federal Minister! Madam President. In order to bring together the guards and the long history that this union has and which the Minister has referred to us as part of his speech – I do not know exactly, Mr Minister, but I believe that until Lösnak you have gone back; to Olah, oh God, since I was not yet in the world, that has been so long ago –: [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: Olah!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: We need to make an actual correction!]] However, your statement, Mr Minister, and so to speak, impressed me insofar as I thought at the end of your remarks: Mr Minister, you are now the one who has managed to deliver a result after decades of these considerations, which also support the Greens – and this has already been made clear by Mr Pilz in his remarks – which is exactly no agreement in the Austrian National Council. Minister! Is it not sometimes to think that everything you take in your hands will end by, so to speak, having a gap, a division here in Parliament? On the other hand, the practice of judicial law, in which the National Council is involved in very many cases, in which it is usually a matter of criminality, of prosecution of crime, is a common procedure. From your department, Mr Strasser, there has been nothing in the last four years where the opposition's conviction was justified that a project in itself would also be carried out in concrete terms so as to take into account the concerns raised in the proceedings. You'll never succeed! This fact makes me more than stupid. There have also been bilateral talks between you and the Green Group, where you will give us Your proposals have been presented, including Brigadier Lang and the gentlemen – ladies were never present, there were always only gentlemen from your resort – who have tried to convince us that it is right. At the end of the day, however, the Green Group has failed precisely because you have not taken serious criticism seriously. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Give yourself a back!]] The concrete questions that the Greens have repeatedly brought in in these discussions and which we have always asked for, have been completely negated and never answered, Mr Federal Minister! I have to tell you: Then these words sound that you regret that the SPÖ and the Greens do not go along with this “thousand project”, as Kößl has said, as pure pangs, for you have never tried to really take concerns of the critics seriously as well. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] These concerns have led above all to an increase in the motivation of those in the Austrian security executive. We have focused on this very point in the Committee's consultation with experts, because what is the main point of the matter? – It is about combating crime that the tasks of the security executive in Austria can only be done to a satisfactory extent if the motivation of those who work in the security executive – whether this is still the Gendarmerie and the police or is only the police in the future – is really a hundred percent if the people believe in their job, in their task, and get the appropriate support from the minister, namely every individual down to the last post, but this support is missing from you, Federal Minister. Staff members have also expressed this in their votes in the personnel representation elections. It is too little to thank the top – and to negate the unrest below. Ladies and gentlemen! The staff representatives and those who have spoken out have said it very clearly: Your task, Mr Minister, would be to disperse, as it were, the suspicion of party political influence in post-occupying. Not the fact that there is that, but the suspicion alone is enough to limit motivation here – instead of promoting it. We take these concerns of the police and the gendarmen in Austria so seriously that we say: The process was long, but the process did not lead to the goal to which he could have led, namely that everyone is convinced that this work – I would never call it “thousand-thousand” – could actually succeed with the approval of the entire National Council. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I regret this because I trust the Austrian army and police and in the future the police and all the police in Austria – but not the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7662	Mr Fauland has been mentioned as the next speaker. Member of the European Parliament, also for you: 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7680	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that Mr Stoisits has not yet lost all confidence in connection with the executive, but I think it is not that bad with the Minister of the Interior, as she has just said. These amendments to the Security Police Act are certainly a milestone with historical significance for Austria and Austrian security. The combination of gendarmerie, customs guard and police into a common guard introduces a new era in the field of Austrian internal security. It is here consciously – and I know, it has been very difficult especially for the Gendarmerie – broken with traditions to fit this executive for the new millennium and for the 21st century. ==References== All the more sad – and this also affects me personally – is the procedure of the SPÖ. The Social Democrats will refuse to agree to the overall law. They voted in favour of some of the things that can be sold very well in the Committee, so that they can also attach them to their flags. If you listened to the SPÖ today, you almost felt that parts of the proposal for a law were written by the Social Democrats. However, in the overall vote they will once again show their standard behaviour. You will say no again, because that is the only thing you can implement politically at present. You can't talk about getting started, because you understand something else from the start. After your sluggish start, which is almost like a false start, was the first obstacle to the own party day, which, as would be described in the folk mouth, was comparable to a abdominal spot. It will be seen if this no-sage policy is then recognized. One can only hope that you will not have to step in front of the delegates once again, because they certainly did not appreciate this kind of policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] But now on the contents of the Security Police Act. On the one hand, we have the creation of the protection zones, the possibility of video surveillance now, the automated identification devices, but as a central theme of the merger of the Gendarmerie, the police and the customs guard. In a first step, 500 planning points from the management field will be moved into the executive's operational arm. In a conversation with Security Director Stenitzer from Salzburg, it was to be found that Salzburg is also very confident of this law. For the time being, Salzburg has promised 24 new planning sites for the next year, and of course these planning sites will not disappear somewhere in the administrative area, but will be used on the street where it is necessary. To the current occupations. Organisational changes result in new occupations and calls for tenders. This is not the Federal Minister's wish, but it is a legal obligation. I assume that the necessary transparency will be demonstrated in these 5 300 new occupations and that there will not be party-political infarctions. Since our staff representative Horst Binder has also been addressed, I would like to say that it is his duty to achieve something with all the means at his command for his clients. I would be very surprised if the SPÖ should not also intervene with the Federal Minister for their people, for that is in itself Usus. As a final point, what is particularly important to me is the protection zone. The protection zone has been put into a bit ridiculous by my colleague Pilz: a 150 meter radius around every school, what is this supposed to mean? – It's a good thing. I bring a case from Salzburg, where drugs are sold within the school yard and the executive is standing next to it and has to wait until someone really hands over the drug note to the respective customer and pays it. This measure seeks to master this situation. There won't be any more of that in the future. The protection zone is certainly not a cure, but a positive development on the right path. In summary, this draft on the Security Police Act is an important step in the right direction, as the safety and protection of our people have the highest priority. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I also look forward to the new amendments to the Asylum Act. The causal link between asylum and crime, as I believe, has already been sufficiently presented today. One thing has to be clear to all of us: Only a safe Austria receives our common quality of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7753	Mrs. Mag, the Federal Minister, has been reported next word. Miklutsch. The Federal Minister wanted to receive a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7772	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! I have also been following your speeches with great interest, and I believe that for all of us who have an open ear to the concerns of our citizens, the issue of security is a central issue and, above all, that we in the population are increasingly discerning that the increasing crime of the citizens of our country is a threat. Although we are pleased to have heard today that the crime rate is falling. That is why, as Minister of Justice, it is also of great importance for me to consult this novelle on the Security Police Act here today, because this Security Police Act accepts precisely those concerns and fears of the citizens of our country. It is a question of increasing security in Austria and ensuring efficient prevention and control of crimes in Austria. As Minister of Justice, it is of particular importance to me that we should unite and merge the guards. There's only going to be the federal police now. But for me, it is even more important that the command structures should be restructured, because this will significantly facilitate cooperation between the prosecutors and this new federal police force, thus contributing to the fight against criminal offences in Austria. The area of video surveillance has been discussed several times. Video surveillance in public places, at so-called crime focal points, will also make a significant contribution to preventing crime. This too will help to satisfy the security and security needs of our people. Subway stations, railway stations and other public places should be able to enter fear-free again. An open society, such as Austria, needs spaces that are places of encounter and that are not quickly penetrated with fear of robbery and other harassment. If I have heard some of these concerns about the use of video cameras in this context, I can dispel these concerns by the fact that control by the legal protection officer will also take place. The subject of protection zones was discussed several times in the various speeches. I personally see it as very important that the Security Police Act now also creates the possibility of protection zones, particularly in the area of schools and in the places where young people live. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But it is also important to me in this context that this also provides the opportunity to turn away those people who could lead our young people into drug abuse. I already know that the whole problem of addiction can not only be solved with the protection zones. But I also believe that this is an important contribution to tackle all of us so important in the longer term. Finally, I would like to point out that the Committee on Internal Affairs – to my great pleasure, I must say, because it is really an important personal concern to me – has created a regulation that will contribute to combating the unfortunately increasing violence against women and children. In my area too, the establishment of a file of violence now under way will help to prepare a risk forecast very quickly, which will also provide a very important assistance to the judicial authorities in deciding on a necessary arrest. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let us take a step towards secure Austria together! This country should be worth it to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7841	It remains 31 minutes of remaining speaking time, i.e. I am dividing this time to the next four speeches. Each speaker thus has 7 minutes of speaking time. - Please. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darabos. As I said, seven minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7862	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Mr Klubobmann Molterer, your somewhat ashamed praise for Social Democratic Minister of the Interior comes late, but we nevertheless take note of it. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Take an example of those!]] And I'm just saying, Yes, Austria was better lifted than under Ernst Strasser. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The most important observation at the beginning: The SPÖ will be there – also here in the Hohe Haus – where it is about improving security for Austrians. There will be a clear yes to the SPÖ, where a greater degree of security can be achieved through appropriate measures. However, there will continue to be a fight against the EIA power policy, where there are no security improvements and where measures are taken that are without apparent safety-effective substance. There we will continue to fight and reject the policy of Ernst Strasser and the ÖVP in the future. The Security Police Act presented here is a case-by-case example of the split access of this ÖVP/FPÖ government to the security matter. After months of negotiations, they will present highly discussionable measures – for example in the field of video surveillance and protection zones – which we can share and also contribute, despite all our concerns and considering these concerns, especially with regard to the guarantee of personal fundamental rights. But we cannot take part in a very essential area of this security police law, namely that of the merger of the Gendarmerie and the police. This is not the case here, Mr President, because it is clear that you are not the only one, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. More security is involved, but simply and simply the implementation of your own power policy under the motto: Drain black, whether it serves objective security interests or not! Mr. Strasser, four years ago, with the well thought-out slogan, you started to lead a “red-and-white-red security ministry”. [[Abg. May. Molterer: He does!]] This also entailed advance locusts of public and public opinion. – Four years later, however, your policy looks disastrous: Of red and white red no more trace and no more of security! On the contrary: They are here and can be celebrated by your group for a security balance sheet, which is not at all positive, as you have tried to suggest. On the contrary! There were 493 000 criminal offences in Austria in 1999, and this year it is already 725 000! The education rate among Social Democratic Interior Ministers was more than 50 percent, until 2004, under her responsibility it dropped below 38 percent. – And that’s where you’re talking about a positive balance?- Oh, my God! I think the Austrians deserved more truthfulness in your policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, Mr Federal Minister, have not only pre-exceeded this negatively in the field of security policy as regards the fight against crime. I would remind you of the removal of qualified experts in your department: from several national army commanders, the head of the federal army, all European leaders in the fight against crime, or also from police general Schnabl, who is now clearly recognized as a specialist in the private sector and one of the best in his industry. Now you want to apply the same scheme to the merger of gendarmerie and police. It does not bring any more security. On the contrary! The sign-bourgeois tendering of several thousand posts will result in the security device being paralysed in Austria for months and more concerned with itself than with the fight against crime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] In addition, there is also no insight into what is meant to bring together, especially as the rural area – and you come from Upper Austria and Lower Austria – is very different from the urban, i.e. urban area. You have not always had this opinion, which you want to decide by law today. I quote literally here: “This is just as the Dalai Lama calls for the Catholic and the Protestant churches to be put together,” said the Minister of the Interior of Strasser in 2000. A few days later She said – literally –: “Renewed against the merger of police and Gendarmerie, Interior Minister Ernst Strasser... spoke at the margins of a press conference in Vienna. Institutions with different tasks shall also use a different organisation’, according to the Head of Division.’ Now I'm wondering, What happened in between? – I can tell you: You want to continue the infarctions you have made in the top machine around you with the police and the Gendarmerie. I also say quite openly to you, Minister Strasser: A minister of the interior is expected to be truthful! You make yourself here and say you have more officials. On the contrary! In 2000, there were more than 3,000 safety sites in the field. They do not tell the people the truth. – This is unworthy of an interior minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, Dr. Strasser, don't lead your place like an interior minister, but lead you Your place like an ÖVP State Secretary in Lower Austria – a function you held a few years ago. [[Abg. Schöls: Unlike you, he was successful!]] The personal representation elections have proved to you that the officials in your area are neither motivated nor behind you. These great increases in the field of social-democratic trade unionists are pleasing for us. You should consider whether the policy of de-motivation, which you will continue with today's proposal to the Security Police Act, on the decision to be taken, is the right way forward. I mean, no. We believe that this combination is the wrong way for Austria. We would hope that you will focus more on the actual security situation in Austria, work here on measures and not put another coloring of your apparatus in the foreground of your political considerations.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7949	The next item is the speech by Mr Miedl. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are seven minutes of speaking time for you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e7970	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Darabos, I am disappointed – I am really disappointed! – because what you do is fright, no more and no less. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Parnigoni, we are discussing the biggest police reform in our history, and what Mr Cap and you have delivered has been a disappointing result for me, because you have not dealt with the matter at all, no! You've been busy with the mail chess. – This is the reform of security policy! Yes, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Unheard!]] Mr Parnigoni, I am disappointed and disappointed by the Greens, because the answer we have received today was a very superficial response from an otherwise very serious opposition. What I have heard from you, Mr Parnigoni, and what Mr Cap has said, actually means: We are afraid to lose influence, we also want to check posts! - That was your answer. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What the Greens meant – that is, what Mr Pilz meant – is, in reality, to change the policy of drugs in the future when we discuss the drug release or the state drug tax. - That's what he meant under the line. – This cannot be the drug policy of the Republic of Austria, impossible with us, ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Yeah, the police profession is a tough job. I would like to deal with the internal side of the police profession. As a rule, negatives: Body injury, traffic accidents, burglary, murder. The police always meet desperate people, anxious or angry faces. The police officer should always be emotionally stable, should be social workers on the one hand, but on the other hand should be a criminalist, sometimes the box champion should be when it comes to it, and the other time peacemakers. – Ladies and gentlemen! The police officer has so little success experiences, and the pressure, the challenge is getting bigger and bigger. International crime is developing – we have already talked about it several times – and there is, so to speak, international crime with the fact that the police counterpart never has to comply with laws and borders. We should deal with this once if we are seriously discussing police and security in Austria. This has not been done by anyone, ladies and gentlemen, neither has Mr Cap, Mr Darabos, nor Mr Parnigoni. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are seriously discussing, then we need to know that the structures that have remained unchanged in the police service for more than 60 to 70 years should be adapted in such a way and should, in order for the individual executive to be duly motivated to perform his duties. We must not allow, ladies and gentlemen, the profession of the executive official to be administered to death! We must not allow a well-trained police officer to be permanently put under the curate of various superiors. Mr Strasser, Federal Minister, mentioned it today: If, under a criminal apologies of a trained policeman, seven, eight, nine signatures are necessary so that this ad can go to the prosecutor, then that is not what motivates a police officer. That is exactly what we are trying to change with this reform. That's exactly what it's supposed to be, and no one said about the opposition. You don't know what's actually behind that?- Oh, my God! We have tried several times in the Committee to clarify what it is all about. No one from the opposition says this here in the house, and that's why I'm so disappointed. In reality, you have not seriously dealt with this matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If the superior structure is such that up to twelve superiors of a strip politician can buy this once and once, then this is an obsolete superior structure. Why didn't you say that, Mr Parnigoni? [[Abg. Grandruck: Because he doesn't know himself!]] Why are you on the road to personnel representation elections and spread fear and horror wherever you come? We know all of this. You should recognize the seriousness of the situation and take care of it where it is about reasonable changes! [[Abg. Parnigoni: You mustn't think the gendarmen and police are so unintelligent! They chose the SPÖ in full consciousness!]] We must no longer allow 45 commanders to be present in Austria, Mr Parnigoni, if we know that nine are enough. [[Abg. Parnigoni: If you talk longer, you lose even more votes!]] Mr Parnigoni! It is not to be denied that you are responsible for structures where there are 45 commanders, but where it is not possible to send a warrant from the X Police Department to the Y Gendarmerie Office. The Minister for the Interior of the SPÖ is responsible for this, ladies and gentlemen. That's what happened. Mr. Cap, there was no photocopier or computer use under the responsibility of the SPÖ Ministers at the time. Calling outside the area was forbidden! These have been the SPÖ structures! [[Abg. Parnigoni: That hasn't been there for 20 years!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There's a lot to change in the future. Therefore: I am really grateful, Minister. I am grateful to you and your team of employees because there has been a throw that is probably the largest and most efficient throw in Austrian security and internal policy. [[Abg. Silhavy: Another milestone!]] – A real milestone, Mrs. Colleague! The executive and all in the field of Austrian security will be able to thank all those who have worked on it. You won't be! Ladies and gentlemen! I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Great template! This shows the inadequacy of this template!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Did you need one and a half years to bring together such a template?- Oh, my God!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] This request is available to all of you. I would ask you to agree to this request. I would like to thank all of you, ladies and gentlemen, who have been involved in the committees and helped to do a constructive job, especially you, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8162	The amendment which has just been tabled has been properly submitted, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8206	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8226	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the High House and the Government Bank! Allow me to make a preliminary remark to my previous speaker. Mr Miedl has just shown that he is powerful in reading, but apparently not in all cases of listening. If my colleague Peter Pilz criticises that the protection zones that children should provide protection from drug crime cannot be executed because simply the staff will be missing to monitor the protection zones and will also fight only a symptom, then this is not the demand for any drug release that is in your head, but nowhere else! Let me now come to a very short, literally very short record of the era of Strasser and of these first years of the black and blue government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Summary in one sentence: Austria has not become safer, but at least blacker. [[Abg. Murauer: Austria is still the safest country!]] With this reform work, as it is referred to, the trend is clearly continued and clear as to what your phraseology is, namely further expansion of power in black hands. We have already heard that personnel policy, in particular through the influence of the national leaders, will and should be further weakened. We know this from the Minister of the Interior, but also from other members of the government, and we know what they have done in this regard in recent years. I should therefore like to ask myself one question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: What priorities do you have? Is your priority, primarily to serve your party, the ÖVP, and to maintain its power, or is your priority to serve the Austrian population and its security? – So far, I can only say: Staff policy has been the most important thing for you. We have already heard today that the merger of police and gendarmerie alone re-occupies 5 300 management jobs. I should not like to go into the post chess that has already been debated, which is to be feared and which presupposes a particular closeness to the party, but rather to another aspect. You know, Mr Minister, that you are working in a very man-dominated sphere, and I addressed you about a year ago, how you will implement a mandatory principle of the government, namely gender mainstreaming, in this huge personnel project, as you will ensure that women in the newly created police have significantly better career opportunities, more women in management positions. I can still remember the slightly diluted facial expression, but I think you'd had enough time for a long horror second now, and I'd have expected an answer from you. She's not there. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: Of course!]] What you mentioned two years ago, I think, in the equal treatment report speaks volumes. You mentioned there as a big measure for equal treatment in your department that the porter log was now occupied with a woman. - Hurra! This is the career you offer women. I think you have a lot more waiting here, and I'm excited if you're able to occupy at least so many of these 5 300 line posts with women that you can't easily call their names externally, because the number is far below ten. A note on women's interests is still important to me in the direction of the Minister for Justice, because it has highlighted the protection of women as particularly important. I would like to follow this question immediately, Mrs Minister, I just don't understand why this government then reduced the funds for the work of victim protection agencies such as intervention agencies against violence last year. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: That's not true! That's wrong!]] In particular, the Minister for the Interior has given less resources to the intervention agency. We know that the work effort is enormous and is growing ever further, that the need is increasing. So if one cannot assume at least a doubling of the necessary resources, I would ask you not to be here in the House with beautiful words. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Mrs Colleague! That's not what you're saying!]] I think that the most unfortunate thing about this security policy debate is that it is only possible to confirm to the Minister that he does not or does not fulfil the essential core tasks of his work. If he doesn't get there or if he doesn't make it, I'll let that happen now. He tries to distract himself from having few successes beyond the human and power policies by creating scapegoats. We know this policy originally from another party, but I also note, Minister, that you have developed a great ambition to position yourself as a legal publisher of a already strong-conservative ÖVP. It's not easy for you to do that. Good for the country and for security I do not think it is. But what can certainly not be done is that you go here and push everything supposedly criminal asylum seekers and asylum seekers into the shoes. They certainly have a wealth of difficult problems to deal with in the fight against crime – we do not need to speak well – but it is certainly not the appropriate answer to pursue a sin policy and to make a law that Mr. Klubobmann Molterer says: We have shown courage to reform with the Asylum Act! What you have proved, Mr. Klubobmann, is not courage, but courage and a loose drifting spirit according to the motto: We are now “blowing out ” an illegal and unconstitutional law. If it is criticized, then we say the critics are following a zigzag course, doing painting, whatever. If the Constitutional Court takes up a law, go here and say we need to make it even more stringent. Even there we will experience exactly the same again. I think you should think carefully about what security is really in, and what you can do, Minister, in order to meet your task, instead of always distracting and looking for scapegoats, which are then easily found by you among the asylum seekers. Ms. Justice Minister Miklauch wishes to see faster asylum procedures from the outset, especially for the criminals. Yes, how to get You can really assess this without a completed procedure – whether it be a criminal law or an asylum procedure? Please don't make pre-conceptions by a Minister of Justice! He has proved that the Minister of the Interior does not take it particularly seriously with the rule of law and the Constitution. [[Abg. Ellwall: Completely wrong! I'm sorry about what you're saying.]] The fact that the Minister of Justice is also questioning this is new to me. I can only urge them to go here a little bit. At any rate, I would like to put two books under the Christmas tree – perhaps a few more, I already have ideas; the trend towards the book continues – namely, the Austrian federal constitution and, on the one hand, the EU Convention on Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8348	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8366	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Weinzinger, if you accuse our Minister of Justice of wrong conduct and false speeches here, I can only say quite clearly: In case of doubt, all of us in Austria – whether we are Justice Ministers, MEPs or simple citizens – should be closer to the shirt than the skirt. I believe that the approach of the Minister for Justice in the field of security policy is very good. Today's discussion on the SPG-Novelle shows very clearly that there is a general concern about security that it is not just about bringing together police and gendarmerie, that it is not just about taking new measures, but about people having this need for security that people feel the need for something to happen in this area. If you follow the discussion, it is very clear that there are three main areas. On the one hand, this is the much debated increasing crime; the number of cases of crime is increasing. The second thing we have discussed today is the problem of asylum seekers, asylum seekers, criminal asylum seekers, criminal foreigners. And the third is the rising drug problem. Another point is that: People outside have the feeling that there are fewer police, less executive, less general army on the street. That is why there is a clear need for action here. [[Abg. May. Worm: 736 less!]] We liberals, ladies and gentlemen, will retain our theme leadership in all these areas, in all these three key topics and will continue to bring our solutions to bear. We will try to put clear solutions on the table in all areas, thereby contributing to Austria's continuing to maintain this safety standard. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Point one: increasing crime. Here there are clear improvements in the planned law. The SPÖ colleagues are also prepared to vote in favour of this. I just mention the examples of video surveillance and the protection zones. There are clear priorities here. Dr. Pilz, who is currently not in the hall, is usually only present in his own speech, has said very clearly that there is a problem with the protection zones. [[Abg. Neudeck: And not always there!]] [[Further call to the liberals.]] - I don't see him. Maybe he's standing in the couleur somewhere and coming in. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Couloir!]] Couloir – thank you! It is quite clear to us liberals that this very protection of children and these protection zones is a top priority, and we will not fall into sham discussions here on how we can do this, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. From the Greens, it is always heard that drug problems can only be overcome by the release of drugs a little more. It has already been demented by the greens today: We're against the drug release! But everyone who is very attentive to the policy of the Greens knows this: The Greens are for the release of drugs. The Greens are in favour of facilitating access to drugs. Ladies and gentlemen! As long as we are free in the government as long as we have a responsibility for freedom, this will not happen here in Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second point is asylum. This has already been discussed today in the current hour; I suppose it has been followed by a lot of television viewers. Here too, FPÖ has very clear solutions, very clear solutions. We have drawn up a programme here, which has now been passed by the Council of Ministers. We have clear approaches here. Ms. Federal Minister Miklauch has been in a working group with Federal Minister Strasser and has set a new way that will make us better able to address this asylum problem, so that we can move asylum seekers more quickly, that we will be more controlled at the borders, that we will get border-by-border reception camps as we demand them. This will make us step by step, step by step, better get to grips with this problem. The third point I have mentioned is the problem of drugs. There is no doubt that the problem of drugs is really a core problem because the young generation is affected by it, because it is the children who are young people who urgently need protection here. I am convinced and I assume that the Federal Minister has the necessary personnel resources to make available on this issue. He has to make them available! There must be no discussion of whether they are present or not. For this protection, for increased prevention, for the protection of our youth, there must be the necessary police officers, the necessary executive guards, because – and I believe all political groups should agree – we do not need to talk about the protection of our remaining generations without the protection of young people. Because Mr. Dr. Pilz, whom I would like to come back to today, has been standing here in the early morning and has said – I wrote it down so that I do not forget –: The only thing the executive didn't deserve is this novel!, I want to tell him, although he's not here now, and I think we all agree: The only thing the executive really didn't deserve is the green security policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, a few words on the SPÖ security policy. I do not want to spread more closely about Mr Darabos' speech, I think it would be a pity for the time being. I would rather look at the SPÖ's overall course in this issue. We now know it from many areas, this zigzag course has become a synonym: Zickzack course in the Turkey question, zigzag course at the business programme, zigzag course until the party day. One did not know until the vote, it will go well or not. Mr Gusenbauer, I would like to congratulate you once again on the results of your election. I hope that you will remain the SPÖ as chairman for as long as possible, because this is a guarantee that we liberals will remain in the government for as long as possible. But now to safety. While I was sitting in my place and hearing, as Mr Parnigoni, SPÖ's security spokesman, said, there was massive criticism of the merger of gendarmerie and police and that the uniform guard was a problem and that the law was rejected, a leading EIA politician whispered something – I could not know that; I wrote it down, and I wanted to say that finally –: It is already fascinating that the SPÖ is now criticising this step, where one hears from well-informed ÖVP-circuits that two leading SPÖ politicians in the coalition negotiations with the ÖVP had very likely negotiated this issue. If you ask who these two politicians are then two names fall: One is now President of the Republic of Austria, Dr. Heinz Fischer, and the other is colleague Parnigoni. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But everything the ÖVP says doesn't have to be true!]] So the old known course of the SPÖ: In the silent chamber is negotiated, in the silent chamber you are also ready to take steps, you are also ready to change this republic. But when it comes to standing out here, confessing color and getting up in the vote, unfortunately, you can't do it. I can only say that I thank you for this policy. She's the guarantee of our success.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8481	The next item is the speech by Mr Gaál. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8500	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr Molterer said that Austria is a safe country. [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] I say: Austria is still a safe country, colleague Murauer! Austria is a safe country thanks to decades of successful work of Social Democratic Interior Minister! That's true, too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Jessas na! You don't believe that yourself! - Who wrote you that? – Is that from Schlögl or from One?]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, are endangering your policy – we are just thinking of all that we have heard today alone! – security in Austria! – I would like to say to you that you have accused us of setting up a law enforcement officer: We do not leave the courage, but we cannot agree to your initiative, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! For example, I can remember the Military Power Act, when we warned against it in connection with the Legal Protection Officer and pointed out that the legal regime with the Legal Protection Officer is unconstitutional. – However, you did not believe us by the government parties. We Socialists have turned to the Constitutional Court and have been given the right [[Abg. May. Worm: The pühringer also...!]] This provision has been repealed! So if you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, say here that we Social Democrats would prevent effective legal protection, then I can only say to you: We're not gonna stop anything! Just the opposite is the case: The SPÖ stands for an efficient legal protection – you from the ÖVP, on the other hand, stand for sham solutions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Exactly!]] While in the government template, the establishment of the law guard was once again established only as the body of the minister, we demand from SPÖ – and that for years now – that the law enforcement officers be a body of the National Council. Unfortunately, your government proposal does not go far enough, therefore: This does not mean that the political and constitutional manko in question cannot be compensated for! What you're doing is protecting your rights, and so you can't count on our agreement to do so! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Bundesminister Strasser, we from SPÖ do not have anything against meaningful and necessary reforms, but this “executive reform” is above all a reduction programme – and all under the cover of “reform”! Police services were closed; there was also a split-down; also Gendarmerieposten were closed – and the security has remained on the track for a long time! [[Call the ÖVP: The opposite is the case!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Even though you note that there is a decline in criminal statistics, it must be said, Minister of State – and this also confirms the security report – that according to criminal statistics alone in Vienna, the number of crimes has increased by 67 percent since 1999! I do not understand that you, Federal Minister, accuse Mr Cap of having something against Mr. Hofrat Horngacher. I am not saying anything, I am absolutely familiar with what Mr Hoffrat Horngacher said in negative terms. – By the way, only: Hofrat Horngacher has made a career during a SPÖ government – and not just now! [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: But he's left!]] In any case, without more police, Federal Minister Strasser, the security standard in our country is not to be observed! The reform “team04” – “executive new” will certainly not be a success story; I am personally sorry. In the merger of police and Gendarmerie, a chaos threatens! Apart from perhaps a few of your confidants, Mr. Strasser, you know, Austria-wide, no one, how this combination of police and gendarmerie is to be done exactly. The security of our country is at stake, Minister of State! – We from SPÖ have tried to create a safe country; we have handed over a secure Austria to you. But you, Federal Minister Strasser, are currently destroying this security! Therefore, a clear no to that of your policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8674	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Kapeller. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8692	Madam President. Highly esteemed Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Toni Gaál, I am convinced that as executive officials you were not quite sure of every word you spoke. Today, in fact, we are actually deciding on a century project – and we are bringing together what belongs together, namely, Gendarmerie and police. Many Ministers of the Interior in front of our Ernste Although Strassers have made lip confessions, they have discussed them, but have not dared to act! You, Ernst, have succeeded in implementing this project! [[towards Federal Minister Dr. Strasser]] Thank you for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In a few sentences, I would like to try to document clearly and by means of examples here, why the merger of police and gendarmerie is so necessary. Take as an example – so that everyone really understands it – a protective person who ends up in Vienna-Schwechat by plane and wants to be a commemorative party to Mauthausen. In health: Accompanying vehicles, escort vehicles of the Green Police; in Lower Austria: Accompanied vehicles from the grey Gendarmerie to the border of the country; in Upper Austria: grey Gendarmerie from Upper Austria to the city border, city- car Linz; then again the green police Linz; in the Mühlviertel again the grey Gendarmerie. [[Abg. Mandak: If this is the main problem, I don't know...!]] This is an example of why we bring together the two guards. Another example is from my field of expertise as a criminal police officer. The criminals do not stop at the city's borders – but the investigators, who have to fight against it, have always had a barrier between the city's borders, between the police and the Gendarmerie. Today we also decide on the preventive measure protection zone and video surveillance. I would like to make the following clear: The protection zone is designed to prevent prepared acts which are initially impunity. When a teacher or director of a school calls, ad refunds that suspects are floating around the school – and if there is a protection zone, the new police, the police in blue, have the opportunity to identify the suspect's identity and to turn it away if there is reason for it; the police can make a ban. However, it is not planned to change every protection zone with 100 men/woman. As a member of the Security Directorate for Upper Austria, I know with certainty: That's the right way! Generations of politicians and interior ministers, one can say, have not trusted themselves about such a project. But today this will be decided – and all of this has been achieved under our Federal Minister Ernst Strasser! This required a certain amount of courage, and enforcement was necessary – and I know that this is a good thing. I congratulate you, Ernst, on this courage and for this step in the right direction! [[towards Federal Minister Dr. Strasser]] I would like to send the following message to the SPÖ Members: Listen Finally, with your gruesome propaganda, with your fear-making, with your slender step and your mess-up! That's how you're not sure only the Austrians! You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, return to the way of consensus and do productive and constructive work here in the House! Dear Ernst, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8773	Next item is the report by Mrs Pepper. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8813	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Still, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great shame if family problems become apparent. The fear of social apprehension and of the talk in the village is greater than the fear of abuse. Who already wants to be the village call number one?- Oh, my God! Many examples show that this fear is justified: No official act is hidden! Unfortunately, there is still a lot of violence behind advanced curtains – and the victims are only women and children who are attacked by violent family fathers. Still, the victims feel responsible for what is going on with you. It's happening! However, they are often held responsible from the outside by seeking “explanations” for the man’s violent behavior, for example: She's a bad housewife! She can't handle the money! - and so on. From studies we know that every fifth woman living in a relationship has experienced violence, and the trend is, unfortunately, rising. Intervention agencies are able to report on the most diverse experiences of life and relationship. All fates in common are that women have been silent for a very long time. Intervention agencies have therefore become very important institutions; we need such, and this is a comprehensive one. They can't be starved financially either! That is why, Minister of State, Mr Strasser, Mrs Miklauch: You should, together with the Minister for Women, try to ensure that such a financial hunger does not happen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The law now gives thanks to God for the necessary conditions: the rejection, the prohibition of entry and a central protection file. Violence in the family is not a private matter, but a matter of public security! That is why I am very pleased that this part is being decided in the Security Police Act today. It is important that all persons who are in conflict with this law are registered in a central violence file. This will enable the security authorities to clearly identify who has committed what offences and what measures are to be imposed. Although more and more women are turning to victim protection facilities, it is our duty and duty to help – instead of looking away! As a former employee of a women's advisory service, which was also confronted with threats of murder from violent men, I know only too well, ladies and gentlemen, what I am talking about! But helping means helping violent men to get out of their power. I therefore very much hope that this law in the final effect will help to reduce family violence.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8882	The next item is Mrs Rossmann's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8900	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I have spoken on this item on the agenda because I have a close relationship on this issue, one that has almost historical significance for me, and I will also explain why this is so. More than ten years ago, I came to politics in the Graz municipal council, together with Mr Miedl; we were the new municipal councils at the time. Miedl was a security spokesman in the Graz municipal council. So I was also in the council and then had the honour of being sent to the city government. Anyway, as far as Graz alone is concerned: There were – I didn't count it, as not researched – certainly more than 50 applications dealing with this issue. At the same time, the liberal opposition party here in Parliament, under Jörg Haider and Klubobmann Scheibner, brought in many, many applications calling for the creation of such protection zones or for a video surveillance of certain places. That is why, for me personally today, this is a very pleasant day; I am now especially grateful to the chief negotiator on this matter. The “Schicksal” has caught my colleague Miedl: Mr Miedl was a security spokesman of the ÖVP, while he was a chief negotiator ten years ago in the Graz municipal council. I am also very pleased that our colleague Helene Partik-Pablé has been particularly committed to this. I would like to thank you, Helene, also on behalf of the Grazers and our Styrian friends for this law, because we need this very urgently, so many problems can be solved. But I also say: This law does not solve everything for the future. It is once a first step that such protection zones can be introduced. As an educational spokesperson of the liberals, I am pleased that in this case, not the directors have to act on their own initiative, but that a school building is considered to be worthy of protection at the moment of suspicion. If the directors had to do that on their own, then it would be questionable if it would happen, because which director would like to admit, I can only say that there is a drug suspicion at his school. If you look at reports or newspaper articles on this subject, you have to find out: Unfortunately, there is hardly a school – similar to what I hear from my own children – in which there are no drugs. In any event, our task in this context will be to look beyond how drugs problems continue to be dealt with in our schools. – To this end, it must be said: Once again, there is a demand for school supervision, including the director or the parent association, but above all the school doctors who should be able to carry out regular checks if there is a suspicion of drug abuse. Now allow me a sentence to argue with the Greens. Today, you were completely amazed and said, in turn, that these are all empty claims that you are drug-free. – I can only say: They were from the Greens – and this is also the mood that there is in the schools to return – who have always been committed to allowing soft drugs! The consumption of Hash was always impoverished by you! In the meantime, however, one knows that hashish is also an entry-level drug; so is smoking. They say this by the Greens – because you are so cool and want to talk to the young people – and the young people often feel that this is just too natural. Making politics, but it also means having a model effect! Every political party must take part in this role; also the Greens! Drug use must not be impoverished; nor must the consumption of hashish! You all know how easy it is to get hashish. I have looked through press articles on this subject and I have, for example, come across a resolution request in Vienna, in the Hernals District, where almost all parties have supported the drug prevention – with the exception of, once again, the Green! What the Greens are reaching, drug prevention is not a visible topic in you, and you write down – I quote – the following: The Greens call for an amendment of the Asylum Act and the Employment Act to allow asylum seekers to quickly access the legal labour market so that they do not become drug dealers. - Quote. [[Calls to the Greens.]] So this is the Green approach! That's not reasonable! Please consider your line – but not in the sense of your party, I do not worry about it, but in the sense of our youth! You too of the Greens have an exemplary effect, and young people always appeal to your opinion on the release of hashish! [[Abg. Mandak:... this only shows your ignorance of the drug market!]] Entry drugs must not be impoverished; nor are Ecstasy tablets! I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: Rethink your line! We will communicate it to the population x-fold that you have not changed your line by the Greens and continue to defend cannabis consumption! In this sense, we continue to fight for drug prevention and, above all, for drug-free schools.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8955	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e8973	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few comments on the comments made by previous speakers. In the direction of Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, who is not in the hall now: The SPÖ doesn't leave the courage! Only: We from the SPÖ stand to the Constitution, we stand for legal protection! We all need the objective of greater security, but nothing of which can be seen in this government. Ladies and gentlemen, if you drive through the country, you can see how many police officers or gendarmen are still on the way! We've long wanted to have more. Just first of all save thousands and then celebrate the attitude of a few hundred, as you did by ÖVP and FPÖ at the budget chapter of the interior, it really is not possible! You don't need to tell us! I do not wish to forget, ladies and gentlemen, to thank the Austrian executive as a whole very much! They all do excellent work, and it would be good for you by the government parties to treat these officials accordingly! A reform should always be in the interests of the colleague concerned! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have, on the basis of this new law, been criticized by an expert of the liberals in the committee, who has stated that this legislative text is insecure to thousands of police! You can't blame us for being insecure with colleagues. If I look at your own broadcasts in the pre-election plan of the PV election, I wonder who's insecure. I can only say, dear friends: This is something we really do not need to discuss – apart from the fact that we should leave it alone for time economic reasons! In the Committee, I asked Mr Strasser about the fact that an improvement in the protection of the relapse regime has been discussed at the level of the board. It's like this: Everyone confesses that there was only a “border” somewhere, a barrier between the Federal Ministry of the Interior and the BKA. This was obviously not an issue at all in the BKA; nothing has been improved for colleagues in this area. A few thousand people will have a disadvantage, meh- thousands of people will be insecure! How the procedure will proceed with this writing process, we have already heard today; everyone can make his own opinion on this! In any case: A clear commitment from our side to the installation of a legal protection officer, but, ladies and gentlemen, To create a legal protection officer, where he must report to the Minister first, and then the Minister tells us here, we really do not need that! We from the SPÖ want, as our proposal says, a legal protection officer who reports to Parliament. At the same time, this would also improve the control rights of the House. For this we are always and at any time! We invite you to: Perhaps we can still decide this together – in the interests of the matter!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9046	The next item is the speech by Mr Ellmauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9064	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At first, just a few words about Mrs Weinzinger, because she has put a lot in the room, which is incorrect. She's not here, but maybe the Green colleagues can do this to her. The Gender-Mainstreaming team in the Federal Ministry of the Interior is involved, the analysis procedures are complete and one is now in the implementation phase. Under Federal Minister Strasser, women have for the first time been employed in key functions, and there is now a vice-president, a police president, a city chief and several post-commanding women. It is also incorrect for intervention agencies to be financially starved. According to Germany’s estimate 2004, €1 250 000 was planned; In 2005, it is €1500 000, i.e. €250 000 more. – So much about Mrs. Weinzinger's statements. Ladies and gentlemen, We live in a country that is also internationally leading in terms of security. Our home country is again and again rated as the top 1 country compared to other industrial nations. Through the achievements of the Security Police Act to be debated today, we will continue to be pleased that our country will continue to be the safest in the world in the future. However, the need to modernise our executive was beyond doubt. Service-time models from the 1970s, double-tracks, parallel competences, unnecessary administrative obstacles: All this made efficient work very difficult. Furthermore, it is no secret that international crime is on the rise. The Federal Government has responded successfully to these changes. Innenminister Strasser has succeeded in introducing measures to ensure the safety of Austrians as far as possible through the century project of the executive reform. He has ensured that citizens in our country will continue to receive the greatest possible security for their taxpayers in the future. Security is not everything, but without security everything is nothing. A greater degree of security is the basis for more growth, more jobs and more well-being for our population. Why you, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand why I am not in favour of the opposition, the pooling of police, the Gendarmerie and customs guards. I consider two points to be particularly important in the new Security Police Act: video surveillance in public places and the introduction of protection zones. The protection zones are intended to ensure that drug dealers are temporarily kept away from places such as schools where there is a suspicion of drug exposure. Also new is the extended video surveillance in neural places, which is already scheduled for 1. ==References====External links== Thus, from the point of view of the law's in-force action, the security authority can declare a particular place in which largely minors are under threat, to the extent that they are not directly subject to criminal offences under the Criminal Code and the Prohibition Act or by criminal acts under the Drug Law, by means of a regulation on the protection zone. This protection zone shall include a protection object – in particular schools, kindergartens or day-care homes – as well as a precisely defined area within a radius of not more than 150 metres and shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of effective protection. With the new Security Police Act, the police will be for the 21st. ==References====External links== Modern, flexible structures are being created to effectively counter new forms of crime. The subjective sense of security of our citizens will be greatly improved.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9112	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9131	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Security and crime control are of course also important concerns for SPÖ. However, since in this context Mr Klubobmann Molterer mentions that SPÖ would have been able to prove that it had agreed to the Asylum Act and the Civil Service Act, I would like to point out that these two laws were at least partially repealed by the Constitutional Court. That is why I think this statement is very bold. I would also like to point out that we will be very careful to ensure that the new laws – the legal repairs – are in conformity with the rule of law and are also in conformity with the Constitution. Security is a basic need for all Austrians, all. To meet this concern would actually be your most immediate task, Minister of the Interior Strasser. Unfortunately, the numbers – which we have heard today – speak a completely different language. The rate of crime has been formally accelerated in recent years, while the rate of education has fallen dramatically, it is only 37.5%. In my opinion, your answers in recent years have been exactly the wrong ones: They have closed Gendarmerieposten – only in Lower Austria there were 32 posts in the years 2000 to 2002 – they have been shortened at the plan posts, over 3,000 there are less throughout Austria, you have actually saved officials, and you have officials, people simply exchanged. [[Abg. Ellmauer: Schlögl and Löschnak, these were the locks!]] [[Abg. Where are they...?]] Nothing of these things I have now mentioned has helped to strengthen the subjective security of the Austrians and not to increase the actual security. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who put this on you?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Where did you get this?]] I also believe – and I am sure – that through all these measures the motivation of officials, which is so important, was not exactly promoted. Rather, the bureaucracy has increased on the gendarmerie post – one can hear that from the officials employed there; it is indeed so – rather missing officials everywhere, and it is not noticed that more officials are serving on the street. That is what Mr Scheuch has already mentioned. The plan posts do not agree with the officials actually employed. Calls for help will be heard, Minister, but unfortunately they will not agree with them. We are still waiting in Amstetten for five additional army officials. Rather, your strategy is to destroy well-tested structures, condemn foreigners and asylum seekers on a standard basis, with massive support from the FPÖ, and in addition to that, you will be insecure to officials. We are not insecure, but we are not in any doubt about your policy, Mr Minister. What you are doing is too little for us, and that will certainly not help to increase security in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The merger of gendarmerie and police will not change anything. We've heard a few times today: This will require 5 300 posts to be re-subscribed. I am sure that this will also contribute to greater uncertainty among officials. There is also the following: Not we are insecure, but your policy is uncertain! Minister! Service law will also have to be changed – as I am almost sure – even if it is now promised that this is not the case. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Did Mr. Pendl tell you that?]] They have often promised something, but the promise has not been kept. I think that's what all officials know. All of this is part of your insurance policy. Ladies and gentlemen! We need exactly the opposite right now. We needed a dedicated security policy and an interior minister to whom people and officials and officials can trust. Unfortunately, we are waiting for both.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9257	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Böhmdorfer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9275	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I can give you the answers, Mrs Colleague: I can tell you that the Minister of the Interior really deserves our recognition because he is very consistent in his efforts to fulfil and carry out the tasks of the State in the field of security – also against so many inconsistencies. I would also like to express my express thanks at this point. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In recent years the tasks have become incredibly difficult. Of course, the person who thinks less about it has more security when he sees a policeman standing at the corner watching traffic, and so on. But today the criminals have become much more refined. They are more conceptual in the way of organized crime, they know exactly the methods of the police and can look forward to them. Of course, the Minister for Security, the Minister for the Interior, must meet this, and he is doing so with great care. [[Abg. May. Worm: Minister of Security!]] I also thank you for finally meeting the call of the Freedom Party to install video cameras in public places. It must not be so that a very important central task of the state goes into the hands of the private. Today, the media read that 2,000 surveillance cameras are installed in Austria, most of which are private, and that of those who are in public hands, most of them serve traffic surveillance. Since all the speakers here – starting from fungus to my predecessor – have said that they are concerned about the safety of the population and the fight against drug dealers, one must say that one must install cameras there – they are anyway announced – where drug trafficking takes place. We owe it to our youth! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We know very well that the Minister of the Interior is moving in a very difficult area because, in part, of course, he has to intervene in the privacy of the people; nothing else remains for him. In this context, however, there is the legal protection officer – this institution envys us abroad; with their use we deal very carefully – who has the possibility of complaint to the Data Protection Commission, and has to make a complaint when the personality sphere is involved. This interplay is very difficult, the whole thing is moving in the border area of the state organs and the division of state powers, yet it can be said that we have found a good solution with it. Of course, it would be desirable for you to show better insight and to participate by a two-thirds majority in the regulation of the legal protection officer. But it is up to you to assume your political responsibility. – I thank Mr Strasser once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9330	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Posch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9348	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! As far as police and gendarmerie are concerned, I believe that it is a political decision that can naturally be discussed. You don't necessarily have to stick to old traditions either, that alone is not an argument. Of course, synergies also arise due to joint procurement, training et cetera, and thus also savings potential. - So far, so good. First and foremost, however, the merger creates uncertainty. At least 5 000 officials with management function will have to apply for a function again, and it can be assumed that an ÖVP party book would not at least be a disadvantage. I'd like to... [[Abg. Kößl:... must be occupied anyway!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Yeah, sure, of course – but how occupied is the question then! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] There is already the general suspicion of the Carinthian head of state regarding the order not quite to be rejected by the hand, which said to that. [[Abg. Kößl: 98 percent were SPÖ members!]] “This is the total penetration of a political party,” “which systematically replaces, as in an authoritarian regime, all those who are not 100% reliable.” – He will have thought something about it. [[Abg. Kößl: Now it's only 95 percent!]] [[Abg. Kößl: That's where you say it'll be recolored!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. School.]] He is probably not the right information person in relation to “authoritarian regime” – there he is certainly not the right information person – but to reject this allegation is not. More serious is – and this is our main criticism point – that the resolution of the custody of the guards among the district authorities and the broad definition of the matters of the internal service actually disbands the government structure de facto and the Federal Minister has direct access to each individual executive. [[Abg. Kößl: That's not true!]] That is true, yes, but for political and democratic reasons one must be in favour of the separation of security authorities and security executives. [[Abg. Kößl: Exactly!]] It is also unclear how much the synergies will go at the expense of these officials. But it can certainly be assumed that the adjustment of the service time arrangements will create serious disadvantages for them. It has already been expressed in advance, during the negotiations, massive reservations, in terms of journal services and overtime of these officials. Some have expressed the fear that this will reduce salary by up to 20 or 25 percent; the allowances were – knowing You are quite right – almost something like a fixed salary component of these officials. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] Therefore, the claim that this merger and the resulting synergies will take place on the back of officials is not entirely by the hand. The real problem of this government is, in fact, savings policy. Some examples of this: the reduction of almost 4,000 officials since 2000, the lockdown of Gendarmerie Posts and Guardrooms, the fact that in many communities no longer his service is available and the presence of executives has been greatly reduced and there are almost no strip services. [[Abg. Kößl: Remember: Löschnak has locked over 200!]] On today's statement by the Minister of the Interior concerning crime statistics, where he said that there will be 1 per cent less crimes next year, I must say: This is relative, because if there were a total of around 500 000 offences in Austria in 1999 – at a 50 per cent reconnaissance rate – we came to around 700 000 crimes in 2004 and are expected to occur next year with approximately 693 000 offences, then we can also say: [[Abg. Kößl: Do you live in the Stone Age or in an open Europe?]] This is an increase of 500 000 to 693 000 crimes. [[Abg. May. Worm: More than a third!]] - So much, so good. A word on the establishment of protection zones: Mr Minister, I think the protection zones are a special type of legal structure, a placebo. Many issues relating to the protection zones have remained open. In fact, with the help of the protection zones and the video surveillance, you just want to fake a sense of security. Without the increase of the civil service, it will not be possible to create real security. This alone proves the crime statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9521	The next item is Mr Deputies' friend. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9539	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With the present Security Police Act, we today decide the greatest modernisation in the history of the Austrian executive. With the creation of a joint guard body of police and gendarmerie, the structures in the Austrian security system are changed. Perfect preparation and a broad discussion mark this reform: For almost two years it was discussed in expert rounds, in the individual guards, with the staff representatives, with the departments and the officials and also in the districts. The general public was also involved. Mr Gaál, you say that no one knows how to implement it. I can tell you that the implementation plan has been in place since 18. ==References====External links== This... go, stop it! [[Abg. Gaál: He never works!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The combination of police and gendarmerie is a major challenge for all the officials concerned, as the various guards with federal competence have a great tradition in Austria. On the basis of this project, no single guard room and no single army post will be closed, says Federal Minister Strasser, and I thank him for that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As early as May 2004, the customs guard was converted in a first step and the officials were fed to the executive bodies. At the time, nine command structures were dissolved. Now it is said to sum up 27 000 officials from the Gendarmerie and the police into a guard, the Federal Police. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, this Security Police Act also contains other welcome points, such as the establishment of protection zones by the security authorities. Firstly, there is a need to prevent drug trafficking in schools. This is a innovation which is of the utmost importance for the safety of our young people and which is a very important point in the prevention of drugs. With this and with the innovations in the field of video surveillance, Federal Minister Strasser responds to the increasingly organized, international crime. In my opinion, both are other useful instruments for combating crime. Our executive officials do an excellent job. Crime has fallen by 1 percent in Austria compared to the previous year – the Federal Minister has already said it today – and in Vienna it is even 7 percent. That is what I am going to take back to the increased preventive work. This also proves that our security policy is the right one. With the merging of the guards, the executive becomes even more modern and efficient, and I am sure that this will also be positive in the crime statistics. [[Abg. May. Worm: Let's hope!]] Finally, I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior Strasser and the executive officials for their excellent work.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9599	Mrs Hlavac's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9619	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a few brief comments on three topics. First of all, on the establishment of protection zones: We naturally welcome the creation of protection zones in front of schools, because it is a contribution to the protection of children from drugs and from drug dealers. This is of course important to us, and we will therefore support it and decide on it. However, we will attach importance to the fact that there is a constant observation about how this instrument is used and how it works. I don't think it's going to happen without additional personnel. A protection zone only makes sense if the officials are there to control it. That is why I would also like to draw up here the demand already raised by Mayor Häupl: It is necessary that there be more police again in Vienna! Second issue: The central anti-violence file is important in connection with the directions under the Violence Law, which has already been mentioned positively here. This law is very important, and we are very satisfied with it. It is a useful addition that there is now not only a local evidence, but also a central one to capture the violent perpetrators in the family. This is in line with the wishes of the intervention agencies and the women's staff, and we therefore agree with that. I would like to address another question, which is in this context, but which is not covered by this law. We are very concerned about the women who, because they decide to terminate pregnancy, are being terrorized in an unimaginable way in the clinics. These women are in a difficult mental situation and deserve our protection and help. Therefore, it would be necessary to take measures to protect these women and prevent them from being terrorized against the abortion clinics of Christian fundamentalists. We will put forward a self-employed motion for a resolution on this subject in the next few days, and I would like to ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, as well as you, Mr Federal Minister, to support us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9660	The next item is the speech by Mr Schöls. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9678	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have once again a day where we can experience live, how those responsible in the Federal Government are setting up measures to improve security policy, while the representatives of the opposition are only talking about security policy and security policy. As in many other things, we also experience again on this very important subject, that in the run-up to the discussion there and there come quite constructive proposals, one also pretends to be on individual points, as if one were actually behind it, but then, when it really comes to agreeing, you leave the courage again. I can only recommend: Take the Council of your group leader seriously in the European Parliament and finally take important measures constructively. We are taking an essential step in the right direction with this novel to the Security Police Act today. Say goodbye to the Holaubenekian or Schoberian Security Doctor. Take the measures necessary to ensure that we give our safety executive the appropriate possibilities. Since today and there the election of personnel representatives and their results have been addressed, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you at the “Gusi-Matik” which has been redesigned since the party meeting: Five out of ten mandates at the Gendarmerie in Lower Austria have you, but five out of ten we have. Five out of ten mandates at the Federal Police Directorate Sankt Pölten-Verwaltung we and five of you have, and at the Security Directorate of Lower Austria, ÖAAB has ten out of ten. [[Abg. Gaál: Too much!]] So “gigantic” are your successes! [[Abg. May. Worm: That's exactly what it's all about!]] Mrs Wurm! I have converted it into "Gusi-Matik" – if you have not yet understood the example of the calculation. But there's an example that's better. Mr Königsberger referred to the closures or mergers of posts. Here is another “heavy” example: During the time of the SPÖ ministers from 1991 to 1994, 194 posts were closed, during the time of the Interior Minister Dr. Ernst Strassterwaren it 121. I should also like to recommend that you apply the “Gusi-Matike” here in order to find out what is more and what is less. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They can't do that!]] We are glad that there is this reasonable measure regarding the executive in the interests of security.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9744	Next, Mr Dobnigg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9763	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery, especially those from my home community and my hometown! Welcome here in Vienna! [[General condolences.]] It is well known to all Austrians that the SPÖ has always stood for safety and continues to stand for security. [[Abg. Murauer: His time!]] [[Abg. It's been a long time!]] Mr Schöls! I'd like to make it clear: The SPÖ stands for the new protection zones, the SPÖ stands for video surveillance in public places, and the SPÖ also stands for the central violence protection file. We are also for the new automatic registration to be able to check at the border by computer whether cars, vehicles have been stolen. However, we strongly and decisively reject the combination of police and Gendarmerie, because this certainly does not bring any more security, nor is it a step towards a modern and efficient executive, dear colleagues from the government groups. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Why not?]] The opposite is the case! Instead, the combination of police and Gendarmerie will promote insecurity, because it cannot be in the sense of a powerful force if, at a stroke, over 5,300 gendarmen and police have to try their position again. [[Abg. Murauer: What does this have to do with the security of the population?]] Nor can it be beneficial for the secure heat if the new guard will have to deal with itself for a year, and some deserving officials do not know how it will continue with them. What will remain on the track is clear: the necessary, efficient and effective fight against crime and its Enlightenment. Federal Minister! Instead of making black personnel policy, ever-increasing crime should finally be pushed forward and the falling intelligence rate stopped. This is not achieved by the insecurity of their own officials, which also does not work through the closure of posts, and this is even less through the reduction of staff. In Styria alone, 160 general army officials are currently missing, i.e. in my home country, every tenth army official is missing. As a result of the acquisition of customs officials who live near the border, the highest Irish districts even have an error of more than 14 percent. Unfortunately, the merger of gendarmerie and police will not improve this situation at all. To create preventive security for citizens, which must be the main task of the executive, can only be achieved through the recruitment of significantly more officials – and this has long been a requirement of SPÖ – and through sufficient investment in infrastructure. As long as you, Mr Minister, do not take these really necessary steps, for so long nothing will change your credibility, which you have not lost alone because of lack of success. The combination of police and Gendarmerie, you said, would be as similar as if one wanted to bring the Catholic together with the Protestant Church. That is why we do not think it is possible! Federal Minister! You sin with your politics at both the Austrian executive and the Austrian population by taking the sense of security. The SPÖ is at least on the side of the people and takes their concerns seriously, yes very seriously, in contrast to you. The voters will certainly express this at the next election. Electoral Day is Payday!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9845	Next, Mr Murauer. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9863	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I've listened now, of course. Mr Dobnigg, it is already interesting: For 15 years your ministers ruled, ten years back to Olah, ministers have been considering and have announced that they would have liked to solve a central problem, namely the merger of Gendarmerie and police. Federal Minister Strasser now comes here and says: Rulership, we sit together, we think, we try to count all If and But and we see that we bring it over the stage properly! Now there is the result of this work, and now you leave the courage again. [[Abg. Gaál: How come it is!]] Very slowly I have the impression, colleague Dobnigg and comrades, that you will be spent in the early days: What are we against today? Isn't it? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Against everything they are!]] Then something comes to your mind, and then you say, On the other hand, we are! In the meantime, you're against everything. So please be against a combination of Gendarmerie and police and see it as a security problem when more officials are available, namely 500 also for Vienna, and the uncertainty rate in Vienna has decreased by seven percentage points, which may be understood by anyone who wants. [[Abg. Dobnigg: There's more going on board!]] They are talking about uncertainties just because these two executive organs are put together. That's very interesting! While the Greens are only talking about abuse, we, the ÖVP, rely on confidence in the law fidelity of the executive. We have enough reason to think about it. I wanted to talk, in particular, about the need to combat drug abuse and the persecution of drug dealers. I think it is very important that the dealers are constantly being persecuted that they can't sell drugs in peace anywhere, that they have no way of reaching the youth. They will not be safe in the future. They will not be able to be sure if they are not monitored whether they are not ordered or arrested. With this bill, we give legal certainty to justice and to protect our young people and our children – not even the children are afraid of the dealers – the executive more security in their work. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! If You're still against it, then I'm really sorry about the heart. I try again to consider whether you may not even be against it, but rather – in the sense of a reasonable matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9927	Next, Member Heinzl will speak. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9945	Madam President. Minister! Federal Minister! Mr Schöls, if I were in your place and, as the top personnel representative, I would have to answer the results of your party in the election of the workers' chamber and in the last election of staff, I would be ashamed to think, second, about what went wrong, and thirdly, not to mention it, instead of knocking great sayings in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kößl: It is about the legacy of the SPÖ!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! The concept of the “team04” implementation plan states on page 11 that certain city and district police commanders are to be grouped on the basis of specific conditions. Pronunciation: ‘This Regulation shall apply to the following city or district: District Police Commanders applied: Steyr/Steyr-Land, Wels/Wels-Land, Leoben/Leoben-Land, Eisenstadt/Eisenstadt- Umgebung, Wr. Neustadt/Wr. Neustadt-Land, St. Pölten/St. Pölten-Land’. The example of St. Pölten depicts the previously functioning units – and that is not only the representatives of the Gendarmerie and the police of the FSG, but also those of the FCG – and new over-dimensional security structures created. This unit comprises about 160 000 inhabitants and 55 municipalities with hundreds of catastrophes. I believe that this centralization will in future make it impossible to address regional security needs only in some way. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e9999	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Heinzl is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore also under negotiation. [[Abg. Neugebauer: He may be signed, but he was not justified!]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10064	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10083	Madam President. Minister! Minister! High house! The most important reform project concerning the Austrian executive will become reality with today's day – a goal that has been sought by many interior ministers, but which is only now achieved by our Interior Minister Ernst Strasser and his dedicated team. This reform comes at the right time, because Europe is getting together and facing major security problems. We make our executive fit for the challenges of 21. ==References== To this end, it is necessary to create up-to-date structures for the fight against crime. It has succeeded in bringing together the gendarmerie, security guard, criminal service and customs guard and reducing the number of leadership structures from 45 to 9. In this way, around 500 officials will be available for the local executive service. This reform tightens the structures and leads to a more efficient use of existing resources. However, it is important that no planning site is saved. On the contrary! We are concerned about security in this country, and therefore the BMI will be the only ministry that will have more staff next year. Not degradation, but the best use of existing forces, the right people in the right strength in good time in the right place – that is the goal of this reform! To this end, it was necessary to adapt the service time models of the 1970s to the circumstances, because the crime does not go to sleep and does not know hours of office. ==References== ==References====External links== Fight around the clock through intelligent personnel deployment. For staff, this system offers the advantage of free planning of services and leisure activities. The uncertainty with our officials is that they have to fear that in the old system of the population they will no longer be able to give the appropriate protection from the new threats. This reform or, let us say, modernisation gives more security to all, citizens, but also officials, because this reform ensures that we can continue to provide security and not just manage the consequences of crime. A successful reform work to which I would like to congratulate you and your House, Mr Minister, but also all of us and all Austrians, because it makes our country a lot safer again.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10116	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10134	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make two brief comments on the merger of the two guards, which, according to your reply, is cost-neutral in the Committee, i.e. that at the beginning there will be an increased effort for infrastructure and technical investments and that 500 additional employees will be used, according to your information. But these do not even cover the natural exit, that is, the retirement. [[Abg. Neugebauer: But that's wrong!]] If I look at the personnel situation in my district, in the Danube City, I have to say: That is more than worrying! We still had 210 officials in the service in 1999 and we now have 180 officials who actually serve in the guard rooms. The rest are in Karenz, are pupils, are assigned to other important tasks, but are run in the staff stand of the Danube city, but are not present in the district. In other words, it can be said that for 139 000 people the number of police officers has been reduced. In 1999, there were 650 more Danube towns and Danube towns and now there are 829 Danube towns and Danube towns. There's probably no better evidence of security reduction. In view of this emergency situation, I find it more than strange to be invited by e-mail from the Ministry of Interior's staff office to a film presentation, to a trip report on a pilgrimage entitled "Jakobsweg – Way of Desire", a film documentation of a four-month educational journey. ==References== December, at 6 p.m. in the main meeting room of the Ministry of the Interior on free admission. However, a voluntary donation is accepted. There are already some questions. Who is funding this film lecture? Why does the Ministry provide resources – personnel, space, film projectors and advertising? You have to go to the bottom of these questions, I mean. That's what your security policy looks like! Minister, don't finance pilgrimage films that you present to the staff, but focus on your core task and take care of more security for the population!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10171	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10189	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The 1997 Court of Auditors report clearly shows that there was a call for the security system to be reformed in Austria at the time. And there were quite two well-known SPÖ ministers who set up appropriate working groups. In 1990 it was Franz Lösnak, and in 1995 the then Federal Minister Dr. Caspar commissioned one of ten employees of the BMI and an external consultant with the BMI reform. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] So today it is about resolving this time of uncertainty and uncertainty. Our Federal Minister Strasser has developed a project in a compact form and in a manageable time and today presents it for decision-making, which meets the requirements of the future, which creates new structures, meets new challenges and introduces new methods and strategies. It is therefore a question of defending the future threats to drug crime, asylum rights, the fight against terrorism, not the structures of yesterday, but the structures of tomorrow. That's exactly what the police and the gender reform is all about. It is about narrow management levels, it is about direct security on the ground, and it is also about uniform service systems and command structures. A thanks to Federal Minister Strasser and his experts. They have done good and sustainable work. A century reform project will be completed and will serve security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10232	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10250	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A sentence on one of the previous speakers, to Mr Schöls. As you've been worried that I can't follow your example, I can answer you: I can follow your example. I've graduated, there's still social-democratic education ministers and ministers. The PISA study would have been different. However, their conclusions are difficult to understand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Your Matura was moving!]] Federal Minister Strasser! Is it true that you have aged and said in ÖVP travels, in the ÖVP club: What's going on in this club? You do not know your own government template again because it has been changed so much since the introduction in September of this year!Unknown term type: "%s".? It has now been changed by this amendment. Above all, we have put pressure on us and, of course, the national conference on the 4th. November, which has forced you more or less to ensure that democracy is also included in the Security Police Act. The continued existence of government structures is such a merit. And that's good and important. Federal Minister Strasser! A free politician once called you “announcing giants” and “implementation dwarfs”. – I hope that when implementing the “Team 04” concept, you will really have the necessary caution and caution when writing out 5 300 posts again, and not doing the same brutality as you have already done with the generals Schnabl and Strohmayer. We don't want to see that again. What happened here is illegal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In short, the two areas which are intended to increase security, namely protection zones and video surveillance. I would have liked to see one thing in the protection zones: that, as with the new investigation methods, we make this law temporary, so that we can see: What does it bring? Is that what it promises? Does it bring as much security as we expect or what you expect, or is it just a placebo that weighs people in safety where they don't exist? On the topic of video surveillance: I am glad that now fundamental safeguards have been anchored, as Professor Funk has suggested, and that not your vision that you had when you returned from a trip abroad has become reality when you explained how great that works in Iceland, in Reykjavik, where the TV screens can be observed, what people are doing. That would be something like a reality show, and that would be great and beautiful. I am glad that the data now to be collected will be reviewed in a fundamental way and also in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10306	The next speaker was Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10324	Mr President. Federal Minister! Estimated Members' Collegiates! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. It must not be overlooked, however, that the environment of our country is changing rapidly. And what applies to all areas of public life is particularly important for public security: Times of strong change bring not only opportunities, but also new risks and threats. If we want to address these new security challenges accordingly, we need efficient structures. This new security police law creates the legal prerequisites for this. Ladies and gentlemen! Over the years, the Court of Auditors has criticized the collapse of billions of parallel security structures; Financial resources that are missing in other areas such as modern communication techniques and technical infrastructure for our security forces. Our Federal Minister Dr. Ernst Strastrhat has taken clear and striking steps. The integration of the guards into a powerful security structure is certainly one of the most important and important objectives of the future structures. The executive is one of the most important elements of our security. Ladies and gentlemen! I am personally glad that I come from a district that meets the highest safety standards. I would therefore like to thank our executive officials very much, who are working very wisely with our people for their entire citizenship. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10360	The next speaker was Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10379	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Federal Minister! I brought some newspaper articles. The first to get in immediately clearly shows the zigzag course of the SPÖ. ==References====External links== On February 3, 2003, the Coalition Negotiations. The following quote: SP-chef Alfred Gusenbauer presents a twelve-point program as the basis for a SP-government entry, where the SPÖ agrees to a combination of police and gendarmerie. - Quote. But now that you're in opposition, of course you'll stay in your Winkerl and smelt on. You can see: typical zigzag course. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: We did not agree at the time!]] According to Parnigoni, we are now living in a dictatorship with police-state structures, as an APA message says from you. [[Abg. May. Worm: That's what the Haider said!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can only tell you one thing: I am of the opinion that this choice of words is not worthy of this House and has actually lost nothing here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But at the second one, I come to speak to you again. You said before the Committee on the Interior that the SPÖ Group would at least confront Minister of the Interior Strasser in the Committee with hundreds of detailed questions on the novel of the Security Police Act. I can't remember these hundred questions at all, because you can just Do not argue with your voice, and for this reason you are going in the wrong direction. It's still a treat at the end of the day. In this issue, Mr Parnigoni also said: It will now be at the Minister of the Interior – that is, the occupations – how he understands how to use them and whether he is also willing to provide qualified staff for them. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: Maybe we don't have a qualified staff in our executive until now? - Not according to your statements. Think about it! Wake up and agree to this reform work!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10440	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft Security Police Act Novelle 2005 in 723 of the Supplements. Mr Kößl, Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Hizu have tabled an amendment. Mr Parnigoni, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or by the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Articles 1 Z 14 and 15 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to these parts of the draft law to a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1 Z 18, 20, 22 and 23 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent to these parts of the bill, I ask for a sign of confirmation. – This is also accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1 Z 19 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those members of the House who are voting for this part of the bill to give a corresponding sign. – This is largely accepted. We shall also vote separately on Articles 1 Z 27 and 28 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent to this part of the draft law, I ask for a positive sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Mr Kößl, Dr. Partik-Pablé, colleagues, tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1 Z 31. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who support the amendment tabled by Mr Kößl, Dr. Partik-Pablé, colleagues, for a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 3 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those members of the House who are standing in favour of this part of the draft law to give a sign in this regard. – This is largely accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinzl, fellow Members, on greater security for St. Pölten, Mr Steyr, Mr Wels, Mr Leoben, Mr Eisenstadt and Mr Neustadt in Vienna. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: (in the direction of ÖVP) That's something for the newspaper again!]] Finally, we come to the vote on the draft Constitutional Act, which enshrines the freedom of guidance of legal guardians, including the title and receipt in 724 of the Supplements. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give a positive signal. – The present draft law has not been adopted with the required two-thirds majority. Thus, there is no law of the National Council within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of SPÖ) So you are against the freedom of guidance of legal guardians?]] 3rd. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (648 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000 (UVP-G-Novelle 2004), and on the request 313/A by Member Karlheinz Kopf, Klaus Wittauer, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Environmental Impact Act 2000, BGBl No. 697/1993, as last amended by the Federal Law BGBl I No. 50/2002, amended (757 d.a.) 4. Point Report and request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the draft federal law amending the Federal Road Law 1971 and the High Performance Track Act (758 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10537	We now come to the points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10562	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! High house! There is a proposal for a decision concerning a change to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act on the table, and we have on the one hand a long-term discussion on the issue of participation, public consultation in large environmental procedures, which has influenced the Austrian environmental debate over years, on the other hand, all of this is now being overlaid by current reports on a project in Styria, namely the expansion of the Motorsports Center in Spielberg. I would first like to lose a few words on the bill and also on our basic attitude on these issues. We have celebrated this week as a solemn act of 20 years of Hainburg, and I think that if you look back on the history of Austrian environmental policy, but also on democratic development in Austria, then you can say that at the time was a milestone in two ways: on the one hand, to realize that the protection of the natural basis of life is something indispensable for everything, especially for the economy and for the prosperity of a society, on the other hand, because there is now nothing going on against the citizens, but only with the citizens, so that participation and participation in procedures are a command of the hour, which you can now, 20 years later, not simply throw overboard. Unfortunately, the present bill has deteriorated dramatically over the last few weeks. The original draft sent out by the Ministry of the Environment meant a massive improvement in the participation of citizens in procedures – one could almost speak of equality with the project operators – but unfortunately it has been watered down by massive intervention, especially the Chambers of Commerce. Now this law contains constitutional provisions, and it is obvious that negotiations between the ÖVP, the FPÖ and the SPÖ have been conducted by the hour, but what is now finally available for decision-making is not acceptable for improvement from a green point of view. There have been substantial improvements which have already been in this law, and the small improvements that the SPÖ has now negotiated are not enough for us to agree to this EIA law novelle. I personally find this very unfortunate because it is precisely the awareness that citizens' participation and participation in the project do not prevent or worsen a project, but, on the contrary, the quality of decisions can already be given massively, and it is a pity that this opportunity is not seen and is not taken either. Secondly, to the current discussion around the Motorsportszentrum in Spielberg in Styria, two things are essential from my point of view. First: It should not be assumed that large investors are subject to rules other than house builders, as small investors, as normal citizens. It must apply to all, namely the right to comply with legal requirements, environmental law. I now make this accusation of non-compliance not to the project operator, but to the Styrian state government. I have looked at the decision at first instance and the notice of withdrawal from the Environmental Senate, and what is obvious is that the Styrian state government has done an unprecedented slutting here – I repeat in this openness what I said yesterday also in the “ZiB 2” – that is, I have simply ignored my own opinions, air hygiene opinions. The project operator does not have a single requirement to prescribe anything at all and to believe that it can keep legal, is already very, very cool. I regret that one simply takes opinions from one's own departments, puts them on the side, and in no way draws conclusions from them, does not in any way provide conditions and then is upset, completely outraged, completely shocked and completely shocked, if the environment senate cannot help but to lift this wrong notice. There were no formal defects, but there were very massive problems of content, which would have been solvable, also in retrospect. And this is not about formal defects, but really about huge classical content-material problem areas. I'm just quoting: For the reasons set out above, the first instance authority should have concluded that the project is not environmentally compatible and cannot be authorised in the public safety interest. This means that the first instance sees eyes – seeing eyes! – and in full consciousness has granted this approval. I don't know if it's always that way in the Styria, but I've noticed several times that it's very easy to deal with environmental law and think: Oh, my God, that won't be checked anyway! But in this case one must make the accusation of the Styrian authority that has approved this project's eye and had to know that it cannot keep legally. By the way: If there is an opportunity to actually innovation the EIA law to a large extent in order to facilitate handling of such projects, then it would be an hour to think about and address a uniform environmental plant law. This requires a constitutional change, which requires, in particular, the willingness of countries to exercise competences. This is still autonomous national execution. This is something that the Greens have been representing for years, which we have been calling for, and for which we still have legislation on the table, which has been blocked over the past years, especially by the EIA, which obviously has no interest in a concentrated approval procedure, between the federal government and countries, in implementing it, because one does not trust to take away the countries in any form of competence. [[Abg. It's a nonsense! That's not right!]] Unfortunately, it was in the Austrian Convention. The proposal made by Mr Khol to the Bureau would never have made uniform environmental plant law possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10604	As the next speaker, the honourable Member's head is mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10623	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we are taking a major further step with this novel to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act towards public participation in the procedures for approving large projects, whether they are operational projects or transport objects, whatever. I'll get to the differentiation. Mrs Glavischnig, you can of course choose access to the revision of a law always in this way or so. The fact is that there are massive improvements, namely enlargements of parties, that in some cases there is the possibility to join NGOs, for example, including the way to the Administrative Court, a possibility they have not had so far, and much more. I don't want to list everything. Of course, you can always call the glass on the table half full or half empty. Mrs Glavischnig referred to it as half empty; I would at least interpret her speech. I say, positively, it's half full or three quarters full. Of course, there are still concerns from the practice, even the Consensor, that is, the applicant, until where such Party statements are useful in the sense of the matter and from where the procedure is only used to prevent things that are not to be prevented by material law, on the basis of material laws. I think that's exactly where the end point must be. A procedural law must not be misused to try to bring down things that are not physically preventable, then the procedure. In my opinion, very special attention should be paid in this law to the concentration we have achieved in the transport EIA procedure between the race regulation and the new EIA decision by drawing this up into a decision-making procedure. I would like to express my express thanks to the Members of the Social Democratic Party for having been with us here, and even for having played a significant part in this concentration provision. The same applies to the concentration of procedures to be carried out under federal law in the central federal administration at national level. Here, too, it has succeeded in bringing these together in a communication. And if, finally, it has not been possible to concentrate the part of the national legal procedures on this first step, I would say that the glass is at least two thirds full, because two of these three essential concentration efforts have succeeded us, and that is probably an essential step forward. In the course of the debate, colleagues will then make two amendments. On the one hand, we had to amend the Federal Road Act and the High Performance Track Act with an application according to § 27 in order to carry out this concentration. There are a few minor corrections which, as I said, are then introduced by a colleague and two or three smaller corrections to the EIA law itself, which are also explained and introduced at a later date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10681	Mrs Rester-Hinterseer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10699	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values listeners and listeners! It is indeed true that due to this change some very positive steps have become possible. In particular, I would like to point out that a long-standing desire by us, by the Greens, to anchor the party position of the non-governmental organisations in the EIA process, is fulfilled, as are the party position of citizens in the simplified procedure, rather than just having a role to play. The decision-making procedure for roads and high-performance routes instead of the Roads Regulation is also a step forward for us. However, there is still no concentrated decision-making procedure. I would also like to stress that the system of sanctions by the EIA authorities is very positive for us, and that it is also the creation of an additional category of protected areas. It is also very positive to mention that the traffic protocol of the Alpine Convention has been transferred to Austrian law. However, we need to critically assess that the Aarhus Convention in its entirety and comprehensive effect is still not fully implemented in us. What does that mean? – No party position of neighbours and NGOs is still provided for in the investigation procedure. There is also no financial support for citizens' initiatives and NGOs as a percentage of the total project, and the simplified procedure is maintained. So what does that mean? We see that on the one hand, the changes in road and rail do not bring anything against the government template for the environment. They speed up approval on the basis of the absence of the regulation before the decision-making procedure, but they do not, as it were, make any provision for the quality of the amendments. There are probably slight improvements in the area of citizen-participation, which has already been mentioned by the colleague head. The possibility of the administrative court complaint is very valuable, but it must also be said that this is not due to a particular desire for improvement by the Federal Government, but to EU law, and that unfortunately was taken back to the ministerial draft. Limited to the simplified procedure – and this can now well be seen in the light of this Spielberg-Schlamassel – means that there is no concentrated procedure, a concentrated decision-making procedure, where these permits are then merged into a large process and not first the state government is responsible for everything that does not fall within the competence of the Federal Ministry, the district board is responsible for nature conservation permits, the state government is again responsible for individual national laws, which, first of all, leads to a total slowing down of proceedings and, secondly, also to an uncertainty of the citizens concerned. For a long time, we have made this request that this concentrated decision-making procedure should be taken here. The Minister's competence, for example, in the case of railway projects, where the Minister of Transport is on the one hand the applicant institution and, on the other hand, is the institution which then agrees – that is, he/she talks about his own projects – it is actually an intolerable state, which we have already strongly criticized. There is an urgent need for change here. Finally, I would like to come to the subject of Spielberg, because this is also a region which is said to be a dying region and environmental protection is now bringing down important economic projects there. That's total nonsense! Veronika Canaval also writes in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” that there are other reasons, namely that the authorities and the state government have not worked properly and that environmental protection could bring important impetus to the economy, but this is not taken up.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10761	Mr Krainer is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10779	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the EIA legislation, which is now in place, or in the amendments that have been briefly explained but have not yet been tabled, I have a laughing and a less smiling eye. I therefore have the smiling eye because the law, as it is now present, is essentially better than the government proposal. For us, two principles were important: One is that procedures should be as fast and as smooth as possible. The other is that party rights should not be missed here and that the involvement of non-governmental organisations, NGOs, should be done in a reasonable way, not in a mini-mini-mini-execution, but in an honest execution and, above all, in a directive-compliant execution. I think we did. The procedures are faster in the transport EIAs. We have only been able to take two thirds of the road, which we would have liked to go back because in a short time we have not managed to concentrate at national level. At this point I would also like to thank the staff of the Environment Agency, which we have not made it easy for us to amend these entire legislation on matter within a very short time and to draw up proposals, which have worked very quickly and very professionally here. What we have yet achieved is a clear strengthening of party rights, not only for the NGOs, but also for the mayors, for example, for the local communities, which should now be open to the highest court in the investigation procedure, which was not foreseen in the original government proposal. That is, I think we brought together a number of reasonable improvements here. With the less smiling eye – “weeping” I would not say, but at least significantly less laughing – I see that we did not continue in some areas here, especially because of that – I had this impression – because there are fears here that I do not fully understand. We need to include NGOs in the EIA negotiations today, because we last adopted the Aarhus Protocol here and because there are appropriate directives at European level, according to which these organisations, these NGOs, Global 2000, Greenpeace and as they are all called, are party positions and involved in environmental impact assessment procedures. They are already involved in these proceedings today, only they are They are not officially involved, but they are because they organise or support citizens' initiatives. We say: If they are already there, they should also be able to sit at the table and speak for themselves. We believe that the procedure is more speeding up than slowing down. This may not sound like it at first sight, for there is – for God's sake! – an additional party sitting here! In reality, this party has been present all the time, and it should also have a proper party position here. There are some areas where we would have wanted more. But perhaps, after the next elections, there are other majorities in this house that make it possible for us to create those points that we still have, but we have not done today, perhaps the next time. But in total, we are definitely d’accord here and will agree to this. I am surprised at the discussion on Spielberg. Now, if there were a little bit of a accusation that the environmental senate would have decided comically that the law was to blame: It's not all that! This case is relatively clear: There is a state government at work or in the state government the spirit: We're the law! That's a ghost I thought he was frozen in a river landscape 20 years ago in winter, but apparently he overwintered and still lives in Styria. Mr Glavischnig said: If you look at the messages – first instance and the notice of withdrawal now – you see quite clearly: There the state government suffocated, did not read its own laws properly, advised the project operator very badly. – This has nothing to do with the EIA law itself. What has not yet been noticed in the course of the discussion on the Environmental Impact Assessment Act is that the locals are dissatisfied because they find the procedures unclear, the operators are dissatisfied and the authorities too are dissatisfied. That is why today – I announce this now – it will be introduced later on – we are also presenting a motion for a resolution calling on the Minister for the Environment to present here a new environmental impact assessment law that can guarantee simpler, slimmer and faster procedures than is the case at present, and also more manageable, but not only for the administration – we would assume that it has the lowest problems with it – but above all for neighbouring and other parties involved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10843	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10862	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think that very important steps are being taken in the right direction with the novelle of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act and also with the question of the Federal Constitutional Law on Renewal Environment Senate. We are trying to give a common answer here in three large parts. I will come back to the extension of the environmental Senate later. The second question is: How do we implement international commitments, the Aarhus Convention, is equal to civil participation, also implemented in the EIA Act? Third question: How can we more efficiently focus and shape the process of these processes for project managers and project planners? First point. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Environmental Senate is free of instructions and runs until the end of 2004. It therefore needs a corresponding extension as the second instance provided for here. It will now be possible to extend the Environmental Senate until 2010 and thus continue to be available as an instance in the administrative procedure. Second point, my honours. Ladies and gentlemen: Citizens' participation. If one sees environmental policy with two key key elements, namely transparency and participation, then it is good that we can now strengthen environmental organisations – that is, all non-governmental organisations that are committed to environmental protection – in the process of taking part in the EIA process and implement their ideas and compliance with environmental rules accordingly. I think that this gives the central answers to what the Aarhus Convention is addressing and what it has been calling for. The third point, ladies and gentlemen, is: What answer do we give in the procedure itself to give stronger, faster and better coordinated answers? We have focused on the fact that in the future, no more race regulation will be adopted, but the Minister of Transport will make the EIA more joint planning in the framework of a decision-making procedure, in which all federal laws to be implemented by the Federal Ministries will be applied, and that, in addition, everything to be coordinated in the federal states, up to the well-founded activity, will be planned more jointly so that we can accelerate the procedures and ensure a level of legal certainty. In this way, the change on the extension of the environmental Senate and also on the issue of citizens' participation today, which is dealt with by this EIA law, is a real step towards the transparency and participation of citizens in environmental processes. Fourth, ladies and gentlemen, on the current topic of Spielberg: I do not think of it if we act here and in other bodies with debt allocations, but: There was a legal procedure at first instance in the Styria, an administrative procedure, which was dealt with. As a result, the Styrian environmental lawyer and citizens' initiatives have appealed. This appeal is also open and open. Thus, this procedure has been decided in the second instance in the Environmental Senate, independent and non-wisdom, according to the laws and regulations of this Republic and also of the State of Styria. The situation is as it is: that the notice has been withdrawn and the application has been rejected – and we must start with it again. And I say quite frankly, it is also my goal as an environmental minister to work together in the coming weeks – we have today had the first meeting of the Task Force between the federal government and countries – in the following weeks: Where are we? What is the legal basis? What were the key points of the rejection in the environmental Senate? What answers do we have to give now? because we have a common interest in the fact that an investor can also implement his project in this region – under the legal, environmental and other requirements. This must be our common political goal for the next few weeks, and we have started work in this area today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10920	The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10940	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The novelle on the Environmental Impact Assessment Act was a difficult matter. The finding process was very complicated, between the ministries of the environment, the economy, the BMVIT and also the parties. It took a lot of meetings to achieve a result – and I think this result is very good. I would also like to thank the Social Democrats at this point, but also the officials who have helped us in difficult situations to prepare the draft so far that it can be decided today. The result is good, it is therefore good because we have made progress in various areas, especially as regards the public. The public is more involved, the public is more involved in the decision-making processes. The NGOs were also involved in the main negotiations or in the main part. I think this is great because the past – ten years of EIA – has shown: If the environmental institutions, but also citizens and neighbours are involved, there is more or better progress than keeping them outside. Which is also positive: the great awareness. The Roads Regulation falls. The Roads Regulation was a game on two sides. Now there's going to be the big deal. With the big message, it increases, and I would like to see Mrs. Hinter – where is she, the green man, not in the hall right now? [[Abg. Rest of interest: Rest of interest!]] –,Rest-Hinterseer, draw attention to the quality! This means that the operator or the one preparing the project will have to invest far more in the future, that it will have to prepare the project much better, because otherwise it will not help him. And I think that is also something that will accelerate the procedure. However, I would also like to address the independent environment Senate. He is, I think, highly appreciated by everyone, he will not be criticized by me either, and his decision in the Styria will have been right. That is, whoever made the mistake, I will not be able to understand. But there must also be superior interests in principle. Especially in this region, in Styria, in Spielberg, there is – I wrote it down – more than 7 percent unemployed. 95 percent of the population, the mayor has said, are for this project. This means that €700 million of investment is important for this region. It is about up to 1,000 future jobs, which are created in addition. 10,000 jobs are secured over the construction phase. So if things that lie in the region's overarching interest do not come about because the environment is now worth more there – and I remember that the A1 ring has already been operated there with Formula 1 – we have lost it, because everyone has fought for us to keep it – then I already see it a little bit with pain. If it is so that a castle owner, because he is getting too little money for his castle, can threaten or prevent a project, or if a citizens' initiative, which has actually opposed only a small part, threatens the entire project, then you have to critically question it. And you have to be careful with the EIA: It serves the environment, but it also serves the population, and it also serves the whole. So risking a region for this reason is a problem. But I do not want to make “Lex Spielberg” out of the EIA myself. This has, of course, been a little unfavorable. But I believe that there are all the responsibilities behind the fact that this project is coming – with the environmental measures. I think the preparations were too bad. Our group really agrees with this novel. It is a good result borne by three parties. I think that also shows the quality of this law. I would like to thank the officials once again!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10977	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e10995	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Environmental Senate as a vocational authority under the EIA Act is until 31. It was set up on a temporary basis on 1 December 2004. As an essential pillar of environmental impact assessment, this independent, non-profit-making Appellate Authority is to be extended by 2010 with this novelle. This is necessary from an international and European point of view, is consistent with the discussions in the Austrian Convention and is supported by many stakeholders. On the one hand, the EIA's legislation will focus on the implementation of the EIA relevant areas of the Aarhus Convention and the EU Directive on Public Participation, on the other, on the modification of the EIA for federal roads and high performance routes, and on the third, on various adjustments from practice to implementation and legal certainty. The central point of the implementation of the EIA-related areas of the Aarhus Convention and the Public Participation Directive is that environmental organisations, i.e. NGOs whose priority objective is environmental protection, receive party status in the EIA procedure for the approval of large-scale projects. This includes the approval procedures in accordance with the 2000 EIA Act and the approval procedures for the adoption of a German Federal Roads Roads and High Performance Routes Regulation. The draft defines, inter alia, which environmental organisations are party to the approval procedure under the conditions set out above. The increased involvement of the public will ensure greater transparency in decision-making procedures and, as a result, increase the acceptance of larger projects. However, the authorisation procedures with the participation of NGOs should be possible in a manageable, manageable and reasonable period. Environmental organisations, for their part, are now required to exercise their participation rights responsibly. More than ever, attention needs to be paid to a reasonable balance in the field of tension between ecological and economic interests. The present draft amending the EIA for federal roads and high-performance routes produces EU legal conformity, the approval, taking full account of the results of the EIA, and thus a reliable level of legal certainty for the project participants. Due to the prevention of double-liquidity, infrastructure projects will be significantly shorter, while maintaining all environmental requirements. Increased coordination by BMVIT will make the necessary approval procedures more efficient and faster. Various adjustments and additions in the area of enforcement and legal certainty, such as provisions on the time-limitation of EIAs, correction of non-EU directives-compliant thresholds or definitions, explicit rules on forced rights and expropriations to provide legal certainty by clear identification of authority, in the case of large-scale investments in EIA procedures, complete this draft law. I would therefore like to agree with this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11041	Mr Heinzl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11059	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Minister! The opportunities for the public concerned to participate in authorisation procedures should not be as good as for relatively large projects, as there is, of course, the greatest potential for negative effects. This was and is essentially the background to the approval procedures with environmental impact assessments at European and Austrian level. In my view, through the innovations to the EIA law over the last four years, the possibilities or rights of those concerned to participate in the EIA process – and I would like to say that here – have been restricted. If there were not an international requirement to extend the rights of the public in order to participate in EIA procedures – I mean the Aarhus Convention – we would not be discussing this in plenary today, I believe. That is why I am glad that, due to the legal needs at international and European level, the rights of the population in the EIA process need to be strengthened again. However, I do not wish to mention that the current thresholds for the implementation of EIA procedures have proved to be far superior for different categories of projects, but are not reduced in critical areas with the current innovation. In particular, I would like to mention the construction of wind farms which, as we know, have technically degenerated children's shoes in recent years. In principle – and it is worth keeping this here – the wind power is a renewable form of energy, whose use is expressly welcomed. However, as many project promoters have had to observe in recent years since the In-Power Act 2002 entered into force, the population, especially the affected population, has, in part, reacted extremely aggressively to the new wind power projects. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This is the wrong speech!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Go!]] – Mrs Glavischnig! I can tell you from my district – I am certainly more on the road in my constituency than you are in yours – some examples of such aggressive behaviour of the affected population. That is why the impression that a project is to be approved behind closed doors between the competent authorities and the project promoters is obvious. The mandatory implementation of a concentrated procedure under the EIA Act, which had as its essential content the early integration and information of the affected population, would have saved the population as well as the project promoters a lot of bad surprises. I have therefore already introduced in May of this year the 'petiti-on for the reduction of EIA thresholds and the extension of citizens' participation in the approval process of wind power projects'. Mr. Minister! Since funding for wind farms will continue to be available in accordance with the upcoming legislation on eco electricity, it is, I believe, high in time to create the necessary procedural conditions – and that is why I am looking for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11109	The next speaker was Mrs Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11127	Mr President. Federal Minister! I start with comments on this law and I also say: If we had already passed the law or had the Environmental Senate waited for the in-force step of the law with the decision regarding Spielberg, then we would not have this Blamage today. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: This is nonsense!]] It's like this: A concentrated procedure would probably have been able to deal with this. Given what happened here, I say as someone who has just observed the Spielberg project for a long time: If you know what politics has promised here for many years and then you don't last hold it, then the Blamage is bigger again! . I am saying this also with regard to an all-powerful ÖVP in Styria, who believes that it can go over everything. That is what I am saying here in the light of this result. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Bravo!]] But I also say: Spielberg is a drama in all. At the time, Bernie Ecclestone was negotiated, a contract was made, and it was the Social Democrats who demonstrated against the Spielberg project at that time. I remember when we were there ourselves: As a result of the social-democratic politicians in the region, they have demonstrated that Spielberg is not building the A1 ring. Then came the A1 ring, then came this untold contract with Bernie Ecclestone, who was announced at any time, which was not temporary – and Bernie Ecclestone was gone again as soon as his cigarette advertising could not become effective. What did you do? – The Styria has gone here, has been looking for an investor and has become bitten – the emphasis lies, please, on “bitten” – with Mr. Mateschitz. He was asked to invest here in Styria – in a region that needs it. And suddenly, of course, the Social Democrats, those in the region, were in favour of this project. What did you do? – It has been said – the politics that all-power of politics has said –: Well, we will already “press” that – in good Austrian. Of course, the Environmental Senate has not participated, because there are in Austria God, thanks to officials who comply with the law. [[Demonstrative applause and bravoruf des Abg. May. Kogler.]] What has actually happened here was the deception of Mr Mateschitz, who has been brought and asked to invest – and, please, 10 billion schilling, 700 million €, that's not nothing, that's a lot of money, and these are jobs in the region: 1,000 for permanent workers alone, more than 10,000 in construction. This one brings someone who builds something there for real patriotic reasons for ideas! Mr Glawischnig has said that thanks be to God a small house builder has now been equated with a large investor. – But this great investor is not an investor like Mr Stronach, who wanted to build his bullet, but this investor is an idealist! He does not even want to earn something on this project, but he simply wants to return something to Austria, the country from which he built his location and from which he described his success with this unique product “Red Bull”! – This is just the big difference, and in view of that, politics is now again required. But I also say that this process or project should be a reminder for the future: that you cannot break things over your knees, but if you want something, it must be well prepared, and environmental laws must be respected. Mr Mateschitz would have been willing to make adjustments, but he was simply told: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, – As said, typical Austrian solution: Push through! And that didn't go right here. The citizens are suffering locally, the people who are waiting for jobs are suffering, but at the end of the day they are suffering, of course, Mr Mateschitz, and we will now need a lot, a lot of persuasion, in order to bring him back on board at all, so that he can continue to play a part at all. I am good things that the Task Force, which has been used, will now follow this path and that this project will really be an example of what is not going on in the future, and that in the future, if you have large investors, you will also be accompanied by a centred procedure in such a way that adaptations are made possible in time. In this sense, we can only hope, and we have tabled a joint motion for a resolution indicating that Parliament, the government parties, will do everything to continue to support Mr Mateschitz so that he can implement his project for this region.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11199	The next speaker was Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11218	Mr President. Minister! High house! By amending the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000, the Public Participation Directive is to be transposed into Austrian law and adapted to the Aarhus Convention. The most important point is that non-governmental organisations from the environmental sector are granted party status in the concentrated authorisation procedure under the EIA Act 2000. The NGOs can assert compliance with environmental law in the approval procedure and thus have the opportunity to make objections to construction projects and to demand improvements. It is also new that the site community, which has the right to appeal to the environmental Senate in the investigation procedure, is now also open to the administrative court. In the context of federal roads and high performance routes, the Roads Regulation is to be replaced by a uniform notice from the Minister of Transport. This means a further concentration of the approval process. such roads. Before a decision is adopted, however, the countries and communities affected by it are to be heard. Another concern of the draft is the clearer regulation of the competence of EIA authorities in relation to expropriations. These will be carried out in a few areas in the future by the EIA authorities. This innovation will lead to a streamlining of the procedure and thus to an improvement in efficiency. The environmental impact assessment has developed into an efficient instrument of environmental protection and sustainability over the ten years of its use. The EIA is now a recognised standard for the approval of large-scale projects. Overall, some 620 procedures have been initiated over the last ten years – an impressive balance sheet that shows that the EIA law has proved its worth.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11266	I am now interrupting the debate on these agenda items so that the required debate on a urgent question can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture concerning 10 years of Minister of Education Gehrer – PISA crash: Are the parents guilty? (2381/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11293	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 2381/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11573	I give Mr Van der Bellen as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11591	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer! The first PISA study was available three years ago. At the time, you interpreted the results in such a way that Austrian schools are among the best schools in Europe. You have had posters printed, which were written by you, and there was, among other things, that Austrian education policy has created framework conditions that promote good schooling. You also said: “Now it is important not to rest on the laurels so that we can move from one of Europe’s best places to the world class in the next PISA comparison.” I quote this without great joy of harm, actually without any pleasure of harm, Mrs. Bundesminister Gehrer, because what the new PISA study says about the competences of Austrian students is so depressing that I only brought this quote to point out that Austria once did not take the results of the PISA study seriously. At the time, we were at about the end of the third. That's where it was beautifully spoken. We shouldn't do this a second time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To remember. I have to quote this again, otherwise the drama of the situation is not really understandable that Austria's schools in mathematics from 11th to 15th century. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Place has fallen back and in the area of problem solution, which was first tested, with rank 15 in the middle field, exactly on average. Thus, Austria has generally fallen back in all the skills tested. Especially the Cordoba Placebo of three years ago, we can really save ourselves this time. At that time, three years ago, it was called, well, we are not everywhere perfect, but at least far, far before Germany. – This is not the case after PISA 2. In mathematics we are exactly a rank ahead of Germany, reading a rank behind Germany, thus practically equal, in the field of natural sciences competence Austria is far behind Germany and in the area of problem solution just behind Germany. If you use all three German-speaking countries – Germany, Austria and Switzerland – you can see that Switzerland is clearly the best cut, then the Federal Republic of Germany comes and then Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I find this dramatic crash alarming, but even more disturbing I find what is hidden behind the averages. This has already occurred in the PISA-1 study three years ago. How do Austrian students first cut out in the top rating area and second in the lower rating area? – Already three years ago, the alarm signs were not to be overlooked that Austria’s students in the top range are very good average, but by far not as good as Australia, New Zealand – Finland anyway – and even the United Kingdom, which is not known to have a homogeneous population. In the lower area, for example, when reading where you have to say that we de facto have something to do with what you almost have to call “functional illiteracy” – I don’t want to approach anyone – people who can read but don’t understand the text, we were already above average occupied at that time. The result of the new study, ladies and gentlemen, is simply disastrous if we are to draw on reading skills. Austria has to assign 20 percent of this lower category to the 15- and 16-year-olds, i.e. that category, in which the PISA test can still be tested, that there is no reading skills at all, or that the knowledge, the skills are so weak that one cannot test them at all. 20 percent of a year falls into this category, ladies and gentlemen! These are in absolute numbers around 18,000 boys and girls, whom we release into the world of work in this way, into the world of life?- Oh, my God! How will they understand and follow simple working instructions of a written nature? – What grows up here is a kind of auxiliary column if you want to, the next 10, 15, 30 years. 30 years ago, this might not have been so bad, because at that time these auxiliary jobs have been available, but today we know that their number is declining year after year and that especially in this area for the few qualified, for which few educated people are becoming fewer and fewer jobs. That's an alarm sign of the highest rank! I think that's all our concern. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] This concerns all of us, not only the parents of these affected children, but all of us, even higher educated here, I assume the 183 in the National Council, whose children may not fall into this category. It can and cannot be indifferent to us what is happening there. Apart from that, it is not at all clear that it is happening. Why are in New Zealand and Australia around a third of the students, in Finland around three quarters less in this lower category? How were the first reactions? – I don’t want to stop for a long time, but a bit strange it was already what happened. The ex-minister Busek, whom I otherwise appreciated, said the 68s generation was to blame. Now I'm counting on these 68s; I was exactly at the right age at that time, 24. My kids have been out of school for a long time. I don't know why my generation should be responsible for these results of the 15- and 16-year-olds. Let's use it! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, from you came a very strange statement: The parents are – I don't know – responsible, co-responsible. – I take away from today’s issue of the “standard” that your statements have been edited. It is your right to do this, but I ask you to take the opportunity to clarify it today. The parents are neither responsible nor responsible for this result. Today, father and mother have to work. We read every day in the newspaper, even more flexibility is required, the tradesmen should best work only on call and then no longer be able to plan their time with the children. Every holiday is questioned, from Sunday to Sunday – what was yesterday? – Mary’s conception. And now, are parents still supposed to take on the role of teachers and school? – The parents of such children, whom I know, have a bad conscience anyway, Mrs. Federal Minister, because they are increasingly difficult to deal with with with all these requirements – only in a temporal way, but also in a qualitative way. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now you have made it worse with the ÖVP!]] And now you're taking up the responsibility?- Oh, my God! I would ask you to take back this statement clearly today. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It was not possible for Minister of Finance to speak to Grasser: Teachers are to blame! Teachers have been on vacation for so long, they should work more. And – that always swings with us – we pay anyway enough, not only to teachers and teachers, but for the entire school system. We spend so much money anyway. The PISA study shows this, among other things. - So Grasser. My colleague Dieter Brosz, inspired by the phenomenon that we are supposed to be world leaders in per capita expenditures per student and student, but only achieve an under-average result, wondered: How is that possible? In doing so, using basic accounting methods, he made a calculation that is not too difficult to understand and is still in the “standard” today. Mrs Gehrer, take the alleged per capita expenditure in the PISA study and also in the OECD Report on Education at a Glance! These are figures that do not invent the OECD, but are reported to the OECD by the Ministry of Education. This is a simple thing of multiplying: People's school times x, undergraduate, so secondary school 1 times y and so on. If you multiply these numbers, come on – say and write! – around €10 billion. Let's not argue about a few million euros! That's about €10 billion for the school system as a whole. Now I think: Can that be true? Who knows? Memories can be deceptive. Look at the overviews of the budget speech! The overview 25 – this is the year 2001 because the data refer to it – has € 5 billion for schools as a whole. This is even including secondary level 2, which is not treated here at all, i.e. the 15-year-old. In the overview 18 there are about 5.6 billion €. The municipalities pay something extra, and private expenditure may need to be added. - Should be! Maybe we'll reach a total of €6.5 billion. But 3 to 4 billion € Austrian school expenses disappear somewhere, just like the water, when you have bathed, disappears in the bathtub in this black hole? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] – Grasser once lost one billion in tax revenue. That's where I say it can be even easier. But with public spending, 3 to 4 billion € disappear? Mrs Minister, you now have an opportunity to explain this! Has You may mistakenly be counting the pensions of teachers? That would, of course, be a sharp misinformation of the world's public. Has anyone perhaps overlooked the fact that double counting can occur when the national teachers are counted at the federal government on the one hand, and on the other hand again in the country on the other? I don't know what happened here! Have you perhaps included university expenditure and the entire research sector? – We are talking here about the elementary schools, the primary schools and the secondary schools from the fourth, fifth, and nothing else. In other words: We have spoken beautifully about the figures to the OECD and, in fact, to ourselves – because until yesterday, at least I myself believed that Austria was spending so much. They don't vote at all! On average, Austria spends a lot on its schools and receives a slightly below-average result. This shows the figures of Grasser, how much we are the world's peak in educational expenditure, now appear in a completely different light. We don't spend as much as it was claimed. We are modest averages, and for that we get modest results. The cuts in the last few years in mother tongue additional education, in the accompanying teachers, in the musical subjects, in the assistance for the integration as well as always disabled children, these figures now appear in a completely different light for me than before. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I hope not to mislead and deceive myself, if I think that PISA 2 has caused a shock and should cause a shock regarding the competences of our children and young people when they are 15, 16 years old. And I hope that all of us, that is, all the four parties represented in Parliament, the government parties as well as the opposition parties, including the trade unions, arbitrary NGOs in this sector, who are always affected, and we, without thinking of the past, are looking at our positions, which we have been rightfully or unjustly represented in the past. We should be devoted to this subject with passion, but without passionately old, perhaps ideologically justified or unauthorized positions. This PISA result must all wake us up and move us to achieve results for our children – at my age soon for the grandchildren – in which not 20 percent of children are almost under the rust, in which the top talents are better promoted than now, in which we achieve above-average results with a hopefully above-average use – and that is not only related to the performance. Of course, we should and must take the preliminary results of the Future Commission very seriously. The sad questions are: When does a child have to repeat, so repeat the class? When does it have to use a year of its life for the same activity in principle? These are serious decisions! And the Future Commission rightly recommends that this replication be significantly reduced. That the children are individually promoted and that we do not target the teaching at an imaginary average, that is, I believe, elucidating arguments. No one has to be a trained educator in order to understand that and to think it right. That goes to the question: Does not the PISA study show quite clearly that the separation of student careers, the school career is too early from the age of 10 years after the elementary school and that all other countries under the same circumstances achieve better results that do not make this early separation? I am not using the rice that exists in this context. I want to avoid that. I want the Austrian schools to be better able to teach children and young people in school, but that's not the only thing. It's not about me – maybe surprised. This is because I am an economist from my education – what I certainly do not want to do is to understand schools as think factories, where children are sent in like workers. Then they turn on any wheels – I'll caricamate it now of course – and then they come out with a greater knowledge. PISA does not even test knowledge, PISA tests something else. PISA tests understanding. And that's something completely different from knowledge. Here the application of knowledge, interpretation, analytical ability is tested, but not knowledge itself. In order to strengthen these skills, I believe we need to put much more weight on the non-cognitive subjects, on the musical subjects, on language training. As an economist, I say that. There is a very interesting project of the University of Music and Performing Arts Vienna, which aims precisely at these abilities of the children. I mean, here are really great re-route profitabilitys possible, just as in sport education, which can do a lot about motorism and camera spirit. That's school, too. And if we understand school so comprehensively and holisticly, then next time, at PISA 3, the test results will not be as bad as they are now. This too is a result that one must take at least or exactly as seriously as the question of mathematics, reading skills and natural sciences. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Gehrer! If I am not mistaken, the head of your ministry is “The Ministry of the Future. ” [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is a cynicism!]] I hope that's not cynicism. I think you don't have much opportunity, yes, I think it's the last opportunity to prove that you want to preside over a Ministry of the Future, that you can't understand that you don't understand yourself as a representative, as a minister, as a representative of a Softened Dogmatics or a dogmatic digestion. This is the last chance, Mrs. Gehrer, Mrs. Gehrer, you have. If we continue to do so, I can only imagine too well how the PISA III results are going to be, and we may not and can not care – even if, Mr. Molterer, our children, yours, mine and anyone else, may not be so affected, because the fifth and sixth grade AHS students have not cut off worse than the last time. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Eben!]] But the children of all the others count equally much, and this 20 percent that we now release into the world, so to speak, into the working world, with completely inadequate core competences, we must devote ourselves to the seriousness that deserves this question. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11710	To answer the urgent question, Mrs Bundesminister für Bildung, Wissenschaft und Kultur Elisabeth Gehrer spoke. Your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e11731	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank my previous speaker for bringing up approaches where we want to continue together. It's about youth, it's about the future, it's about improving the quality of education. But there is a slightly different view between us. PISA checks basic knowledge that is linked to the solution of tasks. PISA does not review any musical skills, PISA does not review social skills, PISA does not review all the other areas that belong to personality education, and therefore, I believe, we must see this sub-area very seriously and very critically, but we must also see that it belongs to school much more, much more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] First: The fact that we have a climate in our schools where the students feel comfortable has already resulted in the WHO study. Our students feel comfortable in schools, whereas in Finland the students in schools do not feel well at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] There's a WHO study on this, and I'm asking you to read it. Secondly, What I vehemently reject is the constant reference to the cuts that are now having an effect. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's embarrassing!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Jarolim) Read!]] You know very well that the students who have now been examined were in no year in a school in which something has been shortened because we carried out the hourly relief in 2003/2004. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Jarolim) Read!]] These student reliefs have been demanded by educational scientists and have been demanded by the opposition – I would like to send you all your press releases – and the trade union youth and the AKS have demonstrated to me and said: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] Finally, relieve the students who have a longer working week than adults! – As far as this question is concerned. In addition, I strongly note that especially in the compulsory school sector, the hours around which we have relieved the students remained in the schools. I have not benefited from this, and in the Federal School sector we have provided €72 million for a technology offensive and €72 million for quality development, for the Leadership Academy, for the Future Commission. Ladies and gentlemen! It has been asked me exactly 21 questions, and I now want to try to answer these 21 questions in the 20 minutes that are available to me as a whole. I apologize if I don't read every question and if I sometimes answer a little shorter so that I can get through with time. Question 1: The goal of the next PISA study is to get better. On question 2: As Professor Haider also noted, projects in three years cannot have an impact on PISA surveys because simply the lead time is much longer. Question 3: I find the goal of halving the number of readers who read badly by the year 2010 to be extremely important and extremely correct, because reading is the most important cultural competence we know. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That was not the question!]] Question 4 – I am now on the fourth question: [[Abg. Oils: That wasn't an answer!]] What has been done?, and this is part of the third question. It has been spent significantly more than €280 000, and it remains to be seen that not everything is measurable with money, but it is about implementing projects and promoting students. There is the teaching of the funding at our compulsory school after reading. There are supplements for children with non-German mother tongue. There is the reading fair “Lesetopia”, which is conducted each year. There is teacher education in reading screening. We worked out and bought the reading screening. We have made an information brochure and reading brochure for all parents. We have also expanded teacher training to ensure that teachers do the reading. We will be 2 million € per year in the next few years... Wait, how much is it? In the coming years we will be € 12 million annually for additional funding measures... € 2 million € 12 million. [[Abg. Oils: 12 or 2?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Wait! € 48 million in four years. We will spend € 12 million annually. [[Abg. Riepl: 4 times 12 is 48!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] We will spend € 12 million annually in addition to approximately 450 posts. We have changed the methodology in the public schools in the direction that there are fewer gaps, that less is copied, that there are more table images again, and that the students also write in a booklet again. – That is the answer to questions 3 and 4. On Question No 5, I must point out that, as already mentioned on Question 3, the €280 000 per year should still be added to the €2 million, so that huge funds are spent to support the weaker students. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: That's the answer to PISA?]] On question 6 it is clear that we are of course looking at which countries are good, but that we are not copying countries, but we are developing our school system. For us, the example of the Netherlands, which also has a differentiated school system, is very important. On questions 7 and 8, I would like to point out the following – and I would like to answer these questions quite clearly –: I never blamed the parents. I can read what I said in the press hour. First quote: We immediately responded actively, namely to the PISA study, and that is, I think what you need to do, and not to look for the guilty, not to make debt allocations across all school partners and in all areas of school, but to actively say what needs to be changed, what needs to be changed. - Quote. Second quote: It's not going to happen in the school sector that you just put one lever around, that everything is different then, because many levers have to be put around, it has to be turned on many screws. And I need many well-motivated teachers who do their best – I thank all teachers who do so in Austria!; this is a boost to my quote – and I need parents and a society that is interested in the school and that appreciates the teachers. [[Abg. Oillinger keeps the front page of an issue of the “standard” up and points to it]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oellinger keeps the mentioned front page of the “standard” in height.]] I especially need people who don't believe everything that is written somewhere. [[Calls to the Greens.]] On the question 9: The PISA Centre is tasked with an in-depth evaluation. Question 10: We will also discuss this question within the framework of the Future Commission. It is not unique in Europe, I refer to the Netherlands. On the question 11: This is also the subject of analyses by the PISA Centre. Question 12: Something was forgotten. On page 76 of the results of the work of the Future Commission: The performance requirement shall be demonstrated by verification. We will discuss this whole question, and I can tell you: I am also interested that the students have as many success experiences as possible, that they have as few negative experiences as possible, and we have therefore already moved the early warning system into the first semester. On the question 13: We're on a good way to do that. We have made 10 000 places more possible this year. 1 800 care places have not yet been retrieved. If we need more care places next year, we will provide them. Question 14: Professor Dr. Haider, with whom I have telephoned today, says that individualization and quality of teaching are essential. Question 15: It should also be noted that we primarily want to improve the quality of teaching and do not expect an improvement with a simple exchange of door signs. On the question 16: I've never defamed anyone. That's what I'm rejecting! I am very much for educationally innovative concepts. On the question 17: With regard to the budgetary data, I would now like to make the following very clear: We have examined exactly how these comparisons come about. The data collection is internationally standard. The data collection is carried out by Statistics Austria. The data collection includes: federal expenditure on personnel, federal expenditure on administration, federal expenditure for school maintenance and school building, expenditure for teachers in the countries, expenditure of the municipalities for 5 000 compulsory schools for school maintenance and expenditure on pension shares. That's the same internationally. [[Abg. Oils: Oh!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: What does “share” mean?]] The pension shares that apply to the school sector have also been raised by Statistics Austria, and this is so normed internationally and is internationally the same, and that is according to my information – I have inquired very carefully – in all of this international data. That is why I believe that the PISA question developed by the Greens is too simple, because the data collection is on a very broad basis and is internationally standardised. It is carried out by Statistics Austria. That is why Question 20 cannot be answered in the direction in which it was put. The educational budget is part of these comparisons, the other parts of which are in the countries, are in the municipalities, also from school maintenance, for 5 000 compulsory schools in the countries and in the municipalities. Private expenditure is also included in the whole of the statistics and all of this is collected by Statistics Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I have tried to answer the 21 questions as efficiently as possible. Finally, I would like to invite you to a constructive discussion, to invite you to put the suffrages on all sides, and above all, I would like to invite everyone to help create a constructive climate for education. We have increased interest in education through the education discussion which is now under way, the unique opportunity to create a constructive climate for education in Austria. We have a unique opportunity to raise awareness of education. And we have a unique opportunity to give the teachers, all the school partners, more attention to all schools in the public and more respect for them. Let's work on it together!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12023	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Brosz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12075	Mr President. Minister for Education! Perhaps we can then find out which calls Mr Großruck made. That is enough for a whole list of calls of order, if already argued with “violence stories”. But let's leave it! Minister for Education! [[Abg. Großruck: The students left a trail of devastation!]] You will not be able to keep a statement with the budget data as easily as you can! Simple: The data published by the Ministry of Education is taken on an official basis. Here you can see school dates of the Ministry of Education of 2001. [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] There are expenditure per capita, per student included. You can take a good look at that. For example, this is €3 852 for the year 2001. The OECD or Statistics Austria – I don't care about this because the responsibility lies with the Ministry of Education – has sent you the number “7 046 €”. This results in a difference of €3,000. By the way, I have today with Mr. Dr. Andreas Schleicher telephoned his sign of head of education in the OECD, and he gave me a clear answer to the question of whether the pension payments should be included: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The only thing you can calculate is the fictitious share of the references. That'll be about 10 percent. Well, we expect that to happen, then there is still a difference of several billion euros, and you have not explained this here in the context of this debate on our urgent request. The answer to this question is still pending, and You will certainly not be able to call the right numbers in the next few days, instead of saying: We need to look at how we can rework!, if it is established that Austria does not have an above average educational expenditure, but at the most, which is in the OECD average. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That was only a part of the incorrect information. You can then calculate that exactly. By the way: They said by the way salopp that we would always have called for the number of lessons to be reduced. – Should I tell you something about the lessons? Skill You remember what discussion we had a year ago about the question, why does the OECD write that Austria has lessons whose number is by far the highest in Europe? We did the same thing. We've taken a note, counted together, and come up with it, you're reporting to the OECD, the 8. School level in Austria, i.e. the 4th. ==References====External links== Undergraduate secondary school, would have an average of 42 weekly lessons per student. There you take the hourboard, follow up, and there you will find 33 lessons. That's a small difference, but that doesn't matter, it's only 30 percent difference. If you say the result of this PISA study has nothing to do with the hourly cuts, I have to tell you: You know the years when the data came from the years before. For the period from 2000 to 2001, where there has been no hourly reduction, the OECD has revised the number of lessons, and it was 190 hours less at a time because we contacted the OECD and showed this abuse. It's not about throwing results, it's about calculating results, and it would be really nice if we could discuss in a serious way the data that's inside here and for which you're responsible. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The fact that you tell us that you could show us our press releases is particularly original. We made a mistake, namely: We have relied on what you have delivered to the OECD. I'd like to admit this mistake. We will no longer make this mistake, and in the future we will look at everything very carefully what you deliver there. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Then turn the spear around, it's relatively simple. Let us continue in your answers, which were no answers in many areas. I do not know if you would have to answer the questions of this PISA study and give such answers to the questions, then I could imagine about what result would come out. Their answers were, in the rarest cases, a concrete answer. The best thing you've done today was your reference to the Netherlands. Last time your example was Germany, but it seems no longer. In recent years, they have represented the absurd claim that Germany had an overall school system. Each educational expert drops from the balcony above if you claim that Germany would have an overall school system. Germany has one of the most differentiated school systems that exist at all, and there is something there called “Additive Total School”. In other words, there is the possibility to register for an overall school that exists next to a gymnasium and next to a school called our primary school, and about 10 percent of students go into such an additional school form in individual federal states. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: No one has fallen down yet!]] This is the opposite of an overall school system, which is the differentiation to the square, but you have claimed for years: We're great! – I can also read this to you, I saw the “Report” yesterday. By the way: Mr Khol, President-in-Office of the Council, stood here two or three years ago and said: We were much better than Germany, and they are very bad because they have an overall school, and we have none, therefore we are better! You can't have an educational discussion like this! Every educational expert gets to the head when he hears such arguments! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The khol is insidious, we know!]] And today you come with the Netherlands!Unknown term type: "%s".? I don't know, did you look wrong again? Do you know how the Dutch school system looks? How long does primary school take in the Netherlands? - Seven years! Seven years of common primary school in the Netherlands! This is in principle what we understand under common school, general school or whatever. But They come here and say: No, the Netherlands has cut off well this time, and they have a differentiated school system, so we do not discuss a common school! For seven years there is a common system, then it is divided! No one asked for a common school until 28. In Austria, too, people may then study, become doctors, become professors – all this is allowed! [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Thank God!]] Not all must have the same vocational training up to 28. However, it is very much about how long there is a common education, common promotion and when one tries to distinguish and make various offers. They have probably also read the statements made, for example, by a Dr. Schleicher, his sign OECD education expert. He has had you executed in the last few days – I quote –: PISA chief Schleicher calls it a problem to “put students into drawers through a differentiated school system”, and that’s exactly what makes Austria! As a result, “in Austria’s social background” has a significant impact on “school performance”. That's what it's all about. We are finally about to get away from the fact that Austria is next to Germany in which the social backgrounds have the greatest decision-making power for the further education careers. In recent years, they have been very much responsible for the fact that this difference has become much greater depending on social origin. We will not spare you this discussion. You can also continue to talk about “Force-Ganztagsschulen”. You say you didn't defame anyone. But I said you were defaming terms. “Force-Ganztagsschule” – should I tell you when that is? – In September 2003, the Federal Minister Gehrer said here in this House, in the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It looks like you!]] Ms Gehrer, Minister for Education, said this literally at other places – I quote –: [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Education and Future...!]] “I can promise you one: We will continue to resist the danger... to introduce total schools in Austria “because it is clear and clear” – hurra, now it comes again! –: “A differentiated, gift-oriented education system with all the help of more socially weak, for less power, is the way of education of the future!” What the OECD tells you about what the education experts tell you, obviously goes in on one ear and on the other again. We note again and again that you then defame the terms, not resort to the discussion. I simply think it is a big problem for the Austrian school system that you sit down with scaffolding and are not ready to discuss openly. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Go! Now it's enough!]] They also said that the Austrian students felt comfortable. That's right! But there are different studies, research into how well-being is. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: After school!]] In the PISA study, there was an additional student questionnaire in which it was asked what motivation the students, which access to mathematics they had. Is it not for you to think that the Austrian students have the slightest motivation compared to all 14 states, which have been extrapolated in the “PISA Austria Study”? Is it not for you to think that they are even “a corner house” deeper and have the lowest value by far in the question: Can you start with what you learn at school later on? The assessment of the Austrian students for this is disastrous! You really have to let yourself be broken on the tongue, what that means. It's not about feeling good. You always question this feeling of well-being; of course the students should feel comfortable, but is that, believe you, feeling well when they say: Mathematics doesn't interest us, we don't need it after all! but at the same time sit in school and say: Great, we're fine!Unknown term type: "%s".? That shows a problem of this whole system! And you can't go here and say, It's all in butter anyway in Austria! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Minister for Education! In the next few days, we will still have detailed time to discuss it, but one last thing to conclude: You said three times that you could not take action in three years. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Yes, yes! In ten years!]] Can I ask you a question at the end? Maybe you can still answer it! [[Call the SPÖ:Nine years!]] Last time, at the conclusion of the study, you said that we would have to do everything we could, “so that we can do the next” – that is, “uproot PISA comparison from one of the best places in Europe to the world class”. Three years ago So it seems to you that it is possible at this time. Other countries' efforts have also timing successes. Of course, not everything goes from one day to the other, but now going here and saying that we had no chance at all of changing anything, there were no ways of promoting – that's just too cheap! For example, there is no way to continue education policy in this country after PISA 2.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12288	Mr Amon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12335	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I cannot understand at the best of my will the joy that the Greens are spreading here! [[Call to the Greens: What is the meaning of “judgment ”?]] In this discussion, they are actually making the Austrian education system mediocre, and that is really not necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Contradict with the Greens.]] I think we should find ourselves in a serious debate with this study. [[Abg. Sburny: Now say your analysis!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: By doing so you admit that damage has occurred!]] And if Mr Jarolim stopped with his unqualified comments, that would make the discussion a little easier. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that the results of this PISA study are not satisfactory and that the results of the PISA study must be taken very seriously. [[Abg. Oillinger:... a little laborious start on your speech!]] That's not a question at all. But I believe, on the other hand, that there is no reason for the whole nation to fall into a kind of self-discipline now; each one suddenly begins to look for the fault of another. There is a wealth of studies: They have now focused above all on the study “Education at the Glance”, but there is a wealth of studies that explore completely different areas of the Austrian education system and which, thanks to the Austrian education system, God is a very, very good witness in many areas. I think we should take other studies seriously in all the serious cases of the PISA study, for example in a very central question, when it comes to: After attending school, do school leavers in Austria find a job or not? – In this respect, for example, our dual vocational training system or the entire vocational education system in the higher and medium-sized sectors has excellent data. And precisely because of this school system, we have the lowest youth unemployment in Europe. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dolinschek.]] We have – and I really want to reject this accusation – taken the results of the first PISA study very seriously. A large number of measures have been taken to take account of the results of the first PISA study. I am thinking, for example, of the programmes initiated by the Minister of Education, such as the “Trustable People’s School” action, in which children can really learn cultural techniques accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Is everything okay anyway, right?]] I am thinking of measures relating to the streamlining of curriculums, the classification of curriculums into core and enlargement areas. I am thinking of a proposal that the Committee on the Future, set up by the Minister for Education and Training, has also explicitly suggested, namely the strengthening of the autonomy of schools. I am thinking of the “Readfit” programme. I would also like to say something about this because you, Professor Van der Bellen, write the following – I quote – in your urgent question: “With this narrow-track promotion...”, there is about € 280 million – apologies, € 280 000, just so we know what we’re talking about. [[Abg. Oils: Yeah, right!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Readtime! Readout!]] Professor Van der Bellen, it's always the question of how to deal with money, that's also a question, because more money doesn't automatically mean better success and better output! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Professor Van der Bellen, you write here literally: ‘Of course, this narrow-track promotion has not allowed for a broad range of measures.’ Mr. University Professor! I believe that it would be serious to point out that the results of this PISA study can in no way be a result of these measures, because this would be completely unthinkable from the time sequence. Anyone who was presenting the PISA study – I was there, your educational speaker was unfortunately not there, he has been represented – has heard that Professor Haider has expressly said: [[Abg. Oils: He can read!]] If you look at the timing of the results, then it means a minimum of ten years until measures we are setting up in the education system today result in an output in a PISA study! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Germany made it faster!]] I don't think it should be overlooked for the sake of seriousness. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Reheis and Mr Oellinger.]] Now to a second area in the reasoning of your urgent request in which you write: “The early segregation of the Austrian school system leads to increasing power distributions because the differences between former primary and secondary school students are enormously large. The results in school types with lower requirements became significantly worse between 2000 and 2003.” – That’s right! That is what the study expresses. But then you say: ‘Without educational organisational changes, this problem cannot be addressed.’ [[Abg. Brosz: Exactly! Completely right!]] I ask you: Why? The legitimate question would be: Where does a mistake occur here in class that leads to these results? [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] That is the legitimate question! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's half the question!]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You didn't understand anything at all!]] Is it not about how to be taught? Is it not also very much about the question of what teachers will teach in our schools in the future? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] For example, I think Dr. Gusenbauer's proposal is absolutely desirable. In this regard, we can, by the way, take a real example to the Finns, who only take every 17. Candidates who want to become teachers in the education system! I would be very interested in your specific proposal, Mr Doctor, as you imagine such a selection procedure. It would make sense to bring it in. Let us discuss this question! It is also very much about the question of teacher training. Also, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Minister for Education has long led the way to a transformation of the educational academies into higher education institutions – also this is an absolutely right measure with regard to the results of this PISA study. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: I think it is very useful to deal with the results in a serious and intense way. On the one hand, the Minister of Education, Mrs. Haider, has appointed Professor Dr. Haider as Chairman of the Future Commission and that this Commission for the Future could work in peace without any political influence. At the end of January, the final outcome of the work of this Future Commission will be available, and then politics will be on the train. And here, too, the Minister for Education has long proposed that a reform dialogue be established thereafter. [[Abg. Oellinger: Then everything will fit in your opinion!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] I made the offer in the teaching committee a week ago that we are dealing with these results very intensively – I mean, also time intensively. We should make a general effort, I think, to get away from Pavlov's reflections. We should make a general effort to take measures that ultimately serve those for whom the school is there, namely the children and young people in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12601	The next speaker was Mr Gusenbauer. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12619	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Amon believes that the Greens have made the Austrian education system ready, then I am not their defender of duty, but, according to these results of the PISA study, to call any criticism of the existing conditions "to make" it shows that you are unable to deal critically with the further development of the education system. And that is extremely bad! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The second concerns your handling of criticism. It's notable. Here in the House, the government quotes international studies every time. No one will be surprised that these are always studies that sing a homage to the results of government policy. Once a study is presented that shows the opposite, such as the PISA study now, one immediately begins to claim: Well, only a part was raised here, and in reality it is not solid, and in reality the school is still much better represented than in the PISA study. – That is, results that do not fit you are trying to relativize in their statement, in order to bring back what is obviously best for you, namely: It's all right anyway, you don't need to change anything. I say to you, Mr Amon, in all clarity: Our children are not stupid than in other countries. Our teachers are no worse than in other countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But the education policy of this government is of the past, and that is the problem we have! To sit down and say: Well, the changes won't work! You want me to tell you something? – When those children who have now been tested as part of this PISA study started school, the woman’s Minister of Education, Elisabeth Gehrer, said. [[Abg. Großruck: He has remained the old cast farmer!]] Now, nine years after school, they were tested – the Minister of Education is still Elisabeth Gehrer. That is, the result of this PISA study is exactly the result of the Gehrer era in school policy. And we must also bear the political responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, and not to blame the teachers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I consider this type of discussion of one of the most essential social policy issues to be truly unresponsible, because it must be clear to everyone: [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Go, go!]] What is missing in education policy is not even to be picked up by such a good social policy. The opportunities of children and young people are defined by the quality of our education policy! In addition, you should also be interested in ensuring that there is a good education policy, because the sustainability of each pension system depends on people who perform highly qualified activities in the future and also receive good wages and salaries. And this can only be achieved if you have a good education policy that increases the chances of young people, of children, and not, as you do. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, that is the key question – the core question! – of social and future policies. And that is why it is particularly depressing that the ÖVP, who otherwise likes to play as a reform party, particularly in the education policy of the repudiators No. 1 is in Austria and has already prevented many educational progress. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] One can be different about different models, but it is shown in this PISA study across which school models bring the best results. And for years it has always been the ÖVP, which is a reasonable discussion on the question: Should the children of ten years of age be separated from primary school and gymnasium?, which prevents a reasonable discussion of all day schools that prevents a discussion of individual talent promotion, which in one of the most essential areas, namely pre-school education, did not perhaps make a contribution to the fact that there are high-quality kindergartens across Austria – no! One of the first measures of this black and blue government was to remove the kindergarten billions – and that was one of the worst pedagogical failures that this government has done, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You remember it at all corners and ends when you look at it: The parents who go to work are increasingly forced to compensate for those deficits that are created by additional hours – at least those that can afford it. It's booming! It's booming to a high degree. [[Abg. May. Worm: Good business!]] You will notice when you read the PISA study that the students in school feel quite stressed that the pressure of performance is obviously no lower. And if you, Mrs. Federal Minister, say they all felt so puddled, then go to schools and talk to the students: The stress in school is not less! The truth is: Stop making others responsible for their own failure! If it was possible in Germany, which last time had no good results, to improve the results within three years, this will also be possible in Austria! We are not interested in saying that the educational debate is now being delayed in such a way that there may be results in ten years. - No! The proposals are on the table, they must be discussed and decided. The truth is that the SPÖ, the Greens, the Future Commission and most experts in Austria are completely in agreement in what direction education policy must go in Austria – the only ones that block sustainablely are the ÖVP and the Minister of Education. Therefore: Stop your blockade if you want a future for the Austrian education system! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This issue is too important to go to the Polish level of Mr Amon. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ellwall.]] But if you say that the report of the Future Commission will be here, I would just like to remind you of what happened to the interim reports of the Future Commission. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] When the Future Commission said it didn't happen so well that the children rehearse so massively, from whom did the first resistance come? – By the Federal Minister! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: She didn't say that!]] When the Future Commission said that school forms were urgently needed all day, who was the first to resist? – From the Minister of Education and the ÖVP! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In your calls you notice: You're not ready to learn! You are not prepared to take the consequences from the failure of your previous education policy! That is why I say that it would be good, that we in Parliament no longer need a two-thirds majority for school laws, because then the time of the ÖVP blockade policy would finally have ended. You do not have the right to take the pupils in our country hostages and to accept the Pisa report every three years for your smooth, ideological ideas of school politics, which unfortunately says it has not got better, but worse! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is why I can only say: The school must be freed from the claming of the ÖVP! Only then will there be more opportunities for our children and young people in the future. Take note of this, take a new path!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12783	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. Legal speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e12801	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Gusenbauer said that the education policy of this government was a prelude. You know what I'm saying? – You are right, education policy is really from the past, namely from your era! Calculate according to: The students who have now been tested were born in 1987, were educated in 1993, and then Federal Minister Scholten was responsible for the classroom! If you want to assign Mrs. Gehrer's sole fault, you'll make it very, very easy. I say it's easy to have someone as a scapegoat, with something not going on at once, but have you forgotten that all these years you have set up the teaching ministers yourself? Have you forgotten that Mrs. Gehrer has worked as a Federal Minister for Education for six years under the Social Democratic leadership – under a Social Democratic Chancellor, under a Social Democratic Finance Minister? Did you forget all this? They come here and give Mrs. Gehrer the sole blame for the results of this study. That's what I'm telling you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: But you recognize a partial debt of Mrs Gehrer – don't you?]] Let's get back to the PisA study. I say there's nothing bad that isn't good either: It has now been recognized to God thanks also by the larger opposition party, the SPÖ, that there is a need for action here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] Mr. Gusenbauer! If you now demand to give up the two-thirds majority and thus dissolve the blockade, then admit that you have been blocked so far. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This is a denial of reality!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Wittmann) Truth hurts!]] And you have blocked because it was, of course, easier to do only what our teachers did not object to, even with regard to various personnel representation elections. Only not one hour more mandatory in school, only non-compulsory education and training! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This is a denial of reality!]] Let's talk about these things, let's talk about these structures, we're talking about the comfortable red-black pride in the school area! We need to talk about it, and we liberals will talk about it. We will look at the vote, and you will have to pass the sample of nails, how serious it is to you with the abolition of the two-thirds majority, because this is the first step into the system. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This is a denial of reality! That's pathetic!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The parents are guilty, it is now supposedly said. I say that such debt allocations are far too simple. We should consider: Is not the entire society – if you already talk about debt allocations – to blame for social development? There are more and more behavioral children, it is said, children from broken marriages, children from so-called patchwork families, children who cross two, three times in the year because the executive is at the door, children who are insecure. [[Abg. Sburny: But don't say now that the kids from patchwork families are poorer!]] If these children then come to school, they are of course not adequately fortified to be able to follow the lessons relaxed. [[Abg. Sburny: That's incredible!]] These are socio-political developments that we must also take into account. [[Abg. Sburny: You have no idea at all!]] Talk to the teachers, they will confirm this! The concerns of the children are carried to school, that is fact. This means that teachers have to be done – and in reality we all have to. We need to find solutions. Now, again, the PisA study says that there are major weaknesses, especially in the field of primary schools; Vocational schools have also been tested, but these are primarily primary school leavers. And in that, I have to say, is really a missing integration policy for many years. We liberals were the first to warn about and say in popular desire “Austria first” that more than a third non-German speaking children in a class are not acceptable, unmistakable. Everything will suffer. And now we are ready, we are actually facing this development. – Once again we had the right to do so 11 years ago! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also say: What's on the table now is too little for us. 400 to 450 children were questioned for this PisA study. That's actually a claw. [[Abg. Brosz: How many? Say it again!]] 450 students. [[Abg. Brosz: 4,500!]] 4 500, okay, I missed a zero. 4 500, still too little. [[Calls to the Greens.]] What we need is a representative Austrian PisA study that enables an accurate analysis of our city-land gap, our regional differences, and which also enables schools to compare each other. I just remember the debate on the education standards that called for performance standards. First came the cry from the Greens and the Social Democrats: For God’s sake, it must not be called “performance standards” – “performance” is a paid word again – it must be called “educational standards”! And like that, there must be nothing to compare, you should not make comparisons. But please, if we don't really compare apples and apples and pears and pears, then we will never come to a green branch. The PisA study has also actually compared apples and pears because not the same schools were used for comparison. Not the same schools as for the last PisA study were tested. If one AHS has last cut off very well and now another has only achieved an average test result, then of course a worse result comes out. [[Abg. Ollinger: That must not be true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This is a denial of reality!]] The following also becomes quite clear: that the primary schools in the country have a different quality than the main schools in the city. In fact, the primary schools in the country – and we can address this word here – already have the function of an overall school. In contrast, the AHS in the city have the function of an overall school, and the primary school unfortunately has come to a rest school. That's the drama! And this rest school is mainly attended by children of non-German mother tongue, by immigrant children. – This is the approach: We have to turn to this risk group, which is more than 20 percent of the students, which is more than 20 percent of the next generation of our workers. I give my colleague Van der Bellen absolutely right when he says: This is the generation that will be the auxiliary workers in the future. That is why we can no longer look at it. Here, from our side, there is a real need for action. It is not about the Grand Connex total school, but about the question: How do we upgrade the primary school in the cities? How do we make the primary school a school that teaches professionally, the children who prepare young people for further education? There it is – I have said it at this point of time – also about the upgrading of the teaching. The fact that an apprentice has to pay more than € 1,000 for the professional maturity test is incomprehensible. On the one hand, one calls for an appreciation of the teaching, and on the other hand, does an apprentice have to pay €1,000 to make Matura? - Please, that can't be the way! We liberals will make sure that solutions in this area come to be changed. I invite you to debate and not to laugh, Mr Gusenbauer. This may be ridiculous for you; I know. Their various professional promotion institutions are very good at cashing along, and they would then fall by 1 000 €. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You are right, your speech is more to cry than to laugh!]] Thanks also to the Chamber of Workers that she supports it in part. They can then bring themselves in accordingly when it comes to really implementing it. Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer spoke about the educational climate. – We really need an educational climate in Austria, an educational climate that also supports teachers. Also, the ORF, which takes the education task only half-heartedly seriously, does not allow any discussion which is really formative, and which, once I say, is not able to bring really interesting documentation, and if, sometime after midnight, is required here. [[Abg. - That's right!]] [[Detonatative condolences with representatives of SPÖ]] These are the challenges facing the ORF as public service broadcasting. In conclusion: We will accompany this whole process very actively and constructively. We shall consider how the Social Democrats really behave with regard to the two-thirds majority. Otherwise, everything we say here remains really empty words, and we remain in favour of the education policy that you have blocked so far. In order for this case not to occur and move, the Members of Parliament, Amon, Rossmann and colleagues make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] You are cordially invited to cooperate. We will face this challenge, and it will become very interesting how the Austrian children and the future of our children will be done.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13086	The woman's wife. Mrs Rossmann's motion for a resolution, drawn up by Mr Werner Amon, Mr MBA, Mr Mares Rossmann, Mr President, is well supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13190	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. 8 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13209	Mr President. High house! Mrs Rossmann! They have now succeeded in removing all statistical facts within half a minute. The PISA study is of course a representative study. Feedback on the tests was 4 500. If we wanted to make regional evaluations that are statistical, a survey size of 15,000 questionnaires would be necessary. But the PISA study is, of course, secured, there is nothing to shake. On this occasion I would like to thank the author and the author of the PISA study Austria very much, with Mr Ddr. Haider and Dr. Reiter, who have not only compiled a very clear, well-readable study, but have also shown that it is very likely to formulate such documents in gender-friendly language. I ask the members of the Federal Government to take an example of this. It's possible, please do it like that! This also works very well in more complicated contexts. Today, Mr. Landeshuptmann Pühringer has been quoted in the "Standard" who has answered the question of whether Minister Gehrer should receive a lack of satisfaction, that being “absolute nonsense, because if the electricity fails, the Minister of Infrastructure is not responsible.” – I see that differently. If there is no electricity for reading in a quarter of households for three years, for example, there is no electricity to cook, then of course the Minister for Infrastructure is responsible and not anyone. If your answer, Mrs Minister, to the PISA study is that you should now discuss everything very unafraidly, I wonder why I should not be upset if a quarter of the young people who leave school or have already fallen from the school system cannot read meaningfully. If you don't excite that – I'm excited! God Be Thanks to that, and I hope I'll be excited for a long time. Only in this way can we take the next step in order to improve something. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Amon has assumed that we are very happy with the results of the PISA study. We, Mr Amon, have no pleasure in harming our children, really not, but you do not take it seriously. You do not take these results seriously when I think of the Minister's answer: The children who have now been tested have learned to read for so many years. She's not responsible for that. – You were a minister at the time! We've known about this lack for three years. In these three years, of course, one could have done something for the elderly to improve reading skills. It is not true that these pupils are illiterate. But you have done nothing, and that is why these misdemeanors and these shortcomings have been shown to an even greater extent. That's your fault, Mrs. Minister! You can't say this was decades ago, you can't take responsibility for it! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] What I notice in this PISA discussion is that one can discuss methodologically didactic questions, yes, that is all right, that one makes the teachers and the parents responsible, yes, that one does not assume any political responsibility for them and that one should not ask any structural questions either. This is not allowed again. You yourself, Mrs Minister, said in your reply to the question: We will continue our school system! They're already restricting it again. On the one hand, you say, yes, we're happy to have the dialogue, but we're leaving our school system the way it is. This is not a starting point, Mrs Minister, if you want to reform something fundamentally, and if our school system needs to be fundamentally reformed, that will be clear to you in the meantime, I hope at least! I would like to address another point that is particularly important to me as a family speaker. The shortages of the education system we currently have are very much at the expense of our families. If, for example, I think that €57 million per year must be invested in follow-up hours in Austria, this shows once again a very important point in the education system, which is not yet covered by PISA, namely the fact that all those who have more money at their disposal can afford to finance their children after-school hours, of course also allow their children the better opportunities for a better education degree. This is a very important point of approach. Finnish system keyword. You're saying we don't want to take 1 : 1. We say we don't have to take it 1 : 1, but we have to look at what's different there. The Finns strongly promote the children individually in schools, and by doing so they prevent the need for private follow-up hours. This allows opportunities for everyone. Mrs. Minister! If it is your concern that all children in Austria have a chance to complete a good education course, then you need to understand this path, then you have to go there and no longer stand up to it! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, you have rejected a survey on the PISA study; I would have liked such a study. I think it would have been good if all interested colleagues had the opportunity to discuss this field with experts, including the public. Too bad you didn't. The reason for this was: We only had a question of education. Mrs Minister, I missed you in this educational survey just like any other member of the government – there was no one there. During the entire educational survey of the Federal Council, there was no single member of the government present! This is also a sign of the importance of education in Austria in this house. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Gehrer, you have invited to the dialogue – I do not yet know how you want to continue. Only if the base is that you say: Dialogue yes, but our school system needs to be continued!, then that is not a basis on which you can have a real dialogue. You can expect us when it comes to an honest dialogue, but I should like to tell you right away: As a fig leaf for co-design, we will certainly not be abused! However, we are happy to be available for an honest and targeted dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13303	The next speaker is Mrs Brinek. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13321	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! The ÖVP presents itself with the PISA study and a necessary analysis. However, we can only do very little with the stand taken by Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not enough to turn on a wheel, that has already been said, but the challenges must be taken seriously. Political reflections such as organisational proposals – Keywords: All day school, total school – lead astray if they are only reflexes. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You will never understand! You lost hops and malts!]] All day school and care policy offers are based on various motives, you know, Dr. Gusenbauer; for example, on the low settlement density in Scandinavian countries, the distance from one school to another, from the parents' homes to the school. In this respect, Finland does not have the same starting position as in urban agglomerations, which you just need to compare. The measures to open the psychiatry in the 1970s, which came from Sweden, and the introduction of an integrative special and healing pedagogy had similar regional-specific motives in the first place, Dr. Gusenbauer, and you should also study that. So: Topographic moments are just as important for day-to-day schooling as educational, family and social policy. – This is the beginning of our analysis. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I have to say that the Federal Minister is much more open than you! This is even an Ural wing of the ÖVP!]] The involvement of the school partners has already been addressed by the Minister, as well as the forms of care she has offered throughout the day. The offer of 10 000 more places is a first, hand-resistant offer. On the topic of general school: We can't say: As a whole school, we need nothing to change, because I see a manifest need for action in folk school. It is stronger than before that attention should be paid to the comprehensive reading and the safeguarding of cultural engineering. I therefore strongly support the proposal of the Vienna People's Party, the last kindergarten year, to use the pre-school year to secure the German skills as a school-leaving requirement, whether it be on the condition that this kindergarten year is mandatory. This proposal has been completely approved. I am very glad that the Vienna People's Party was a pioneer in this respect, before PISA studies were published. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But nationwide, Mrs. Colleague!]] I quote Günther Nenning from the “Kronen-Zeitung” today, which strikes the alarm because in the general school Volksschule in Vienna 39 percent of the children of non-German native language are and the Viennans have not much thought about it to say it salopp. I remember: In 1991, the elections were preferred in Vienna with the consent of the SPÖ, which was councillor Smejkal, because of failure of the Vienna school and integration policy. Since 1991 it seems that not much has been done to improve the quality of life. – Need for action is given in all cases. Further point: Gender question. I am absolutely of your opinion, Professor Van der Bellen, with regard to the aspect of gender question that you have provided in the question. We need to take care of the male risk students. However, we must also take care of the dimension behind this analysis. So: Boys are better in technology and natural sciences, are worse at reading, girls are not so bad because they attend higher schools because more are visiting an AHS because there is a manifest sexualist behind it. We must move girls to go even more into the fields of technology and natural sciences, to have less fear of strategy, power, money, influence, fortification. This is an approach that is to be undertaken in a society-wide way, and not just through individual school-related measures. However, we also need to warn the boys against falling into aggressive behaviour when it comes to reaching qualifications in soft areas, thus admitting pain, admitting conflicts, dealing with mediation and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! That we also and especially in the individual promotion, in which specialist didactics require action and that the 68-er laisser-faire- or Kuschelpedagogik also came to an end, proves us specialist didactics in the current daily newspapers. There's a lot to be said. I agree with you, Mrs Federal Minister, and with the majority of Members here, that in a reform dialogue we should put all the facts on the table and not have a prank. I therefore invite the House to accept the following motion for a resolution by Mr Rossmann and Mr Amon: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13411	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Brinek by Mrs Werner Amon, Mr Mares Rossmann, colleagues on the rapid and efficient implementation of school reform measures is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13468	The next speaker was Mr Ddr. Decliner. I'll set his welcome time at 4 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13486	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are shortly after the mid-term of this discussion, let me therefore draw an interim report: The project that we are doing here, namely truly changing the Austrian school system – and this requirement exists – has a very bad start. Mr Brinek, you are putting a motion for a resolution on the table here without talking to us before, without even losing a sentence on the possibility of a joint effort, and instructing the government to do something she must do anyway, namely to analyse these things and to negotiate them with Parliament. [[Abg. Wittauer: If you work so slowly!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] And you expect us to agree. We have not even seen the proposal concerning two-thirds of the majority so far. Do you imagine the cooperation? – That’s not how it will be! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Under these conditions, the applications will certainly be rejected and you can rely on them! This is not a way of dealing with each other if you want to find a common solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They accuse us of blocking. – I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, I ask you, Mr Amon: What happened at the last meeting of the teaching committee? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: weren't you there?]] . We have agreed to the government's proposals, we have contributed to this. And what have the government and the government groups done the other way round? – You have rejected all our requests! That's the fact. Conversely, it is: You block everything, you're the roadblockers here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs Bundesminister, what has prevented you from meeting our invitation to PISA 2000 already? You have set up a Future Commission, and you have then continued the “future:school” project, in which proposals have been drawn up. Now there is the project “School 2010”. I ask you which of these points, which would have been implemented, have hindered SPÖ's implementation. Make a point! On the contrary: We have repeatedly called for the proposals of the Future Commission to be dealt with here and implemented quickly, because of the weaknesses already in 2000. Even a paper from your own home has shown the five problem areas that PISA 2000 has already identified with regard to the Austrian school system. It seems to me like a new tactic of preventing. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: As the bad man thinks, so he says.]] This future commission, this project “School 2010”, these great stagings – you are building here a great sailing ship with which you can go out, but this sailing ship is not running out, but is stuck in the dock. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What is that like a comparison?! We're building a motor boat, not a sailing ship!]] This is not a school reform, as we imagine it, and this is not a school reform, as the Austrian students urgently need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Rossmann! No debt allocations – this is, of course, a legitimate wish for those who may also be involved in this situation, who are always the first to say: Let's not make any culprits! Let's stick to the facts: In 2000, there was an investigation in which Austria cut off very well, according to which the government stood here and said what a great system it has. Then you entered the government by the liberals and continued to manage the school system with the ÖVP. Three years later: a dramatic crash! Not on the way to the world class, not on the way to the top of the world – we are world champions in the crash. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] That's what we are, and that can't satisfy us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Cleaning yourself so easily is really easy!]] It really is about important things, so that we can accept the invitation without any reservations. We also like to listen to what you have to say against the common school and why you believe that this is not the right way. We are convinced that all the school systems that already separate the children into weaker and stronger by the tenth year of life, are a terrible injustice to the weaker children, especially those children who come from families with a weaker social background. These school systems leave these children behind. And that the proportion of children left behind has risen from 15 percent to 20 percent now instead of being halved is really dramatic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] This is really due to the fact that all the reduction measures were the first to be achieved in support of the weakest. Mrs. Minister, it's not true if you say it doesn't matter at all. You cannot claim that Walter Riegler does not know the Austrian school system, he is an ÖVP man and top compulsory school teacher trader. Riegler says: We have lost 4,000 teachers, of course there is little time for additional offers. Although the new financial compensation brings improvements, the damage to the individual student is difficult to fix. That's fatal. - Quote. This is the testimony that will give you your own chief trade union leader of the teachers here. We have prepared a programme of education – we have already handed it over to you, Mrs Federal Minister – in which there are many proposals similar to those of the Future Commission. We do not need to analyse for years or at least half a year, the proposals are on the table. I'll invite you to: Let's put them on!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13648	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13666	Mr President. Minister! In my opinion, the discussion about the PisA study is completely wrong. We are reacting today in Austria as Germany did 2001. At that time, when Germany crashed, it was everywhere in the German media to read and hear: PisA shock! All just looked at the PisA study. It's strange what's going on in three years. In 2001 we were in the first third – Germany far behind us. Three years later: Germany just ahead of us. Our result: in the natural sciences from rank 8 to rank 20, in mathematics from 8 to 15, while reading from 8 to 19, and in problem solving we are in place 15, just behind Germany. The Swiss have a different access to it. The “New Zurich Newspaper” criticizes the PisA study. Although the Swisss were worse in 2001, they have improved considerably, it can be read in this paper that the PISA study thus becomes the “god of education policy”. Everything looks there, and above everything, this PisA study is being supported. Our schools are highly regarded internationally, managers praise our schools, many like to work here because our education system is very good – I don't say it's the best thing that doesn't change a lot, but it's very good – so it's not right for you to do everything bad now, and that's why I'm doing it with the PisA study; that's too little for me. The “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” also says, except that it calls this study the “gods of education policy” that some countries now have their teachers in education policy so far that they are working on the PisA study. If that is the truth, then the PisA study is not even worth the paper on which it is written. So if countries can be shown to work to achieve good results in the PisA study, then something is wrong. And the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” is a newspaper that is viewed everywhere. It is also not possible – I have to say that – to be up and down again from one study to the next within three years. If short-term measures in education policy were to bring about such strong changes, it would be relatively simple anyway. However, education policy is a reform project, and reform projects need a long period of time until they work. Mrs Rossmann has also said the right thing: Of course, mistakes have also happened in the past. I am not saying that the debt lies, for example, only with the Social Democrats, but where mistakes have happened, one should also recognize them, and one should try together to correct these mistakes. We shall certainly accept the offer made by Mr Niederweiser. But that social democracy in education is now “translating” and it is said that for four years the catastrophe has been perfect, that the education system is terraced and that everything is bad is not right. - Please, go pray! No one can hear this pity anymore, that's impossible. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Red raunzer!]] But there is an example of this, especially in the case of a case in the PisA study, this becomes clear: Use of computers: Austria at #5, Germany at #25 – far back. With self-esteem in dealing with software, Germany is at the very top of the line 2, Austria at #25 – strange. Same thing: Is Austria so bad in mathematics because the students are now allowed to use the computers? May be, then we'll get rid of them! Maybe you can improve that one or the other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] - You have to think about it. [[Abg. Oillinger: The “Golden Lemon” goes to Klaus Wittauer, FPÖ!]] It has also been proved that the origin of pupils for educational success is particularly important in primary and primary schools. If Vienna has a 39 percent share of foreigners in compulsory schools, it is clear that teachers need to take more care of social education and measures than education. That's a normal thing, no one can argue. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: It's just said!]] The CDU and CSU in Germany – because they always say they're doing a different policy – have said quite clearly – I've heard it exactly –: Those who do not have the power of the German language should not go to compulsory school yet. I am in favour – that was always a liberal requirement – that foreign children who are with us should first learn German and then go to compulsory schools. That is, it cannot be so that in compulsory schools, when a high proportion of foreigners are involved, the German language must be taught practically. And if we implement this, the success of education will also increase. Joint efforts to increase the level of education will be a matter of course for all parties, for us anyway. We will put forward our proposals constructively, and I hope that the Social Democrats and the Greens will do the same.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13739	Mrs Sburny is speaking now. Requested time: Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13757	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I find this discussion to be truly remarkable in some way, when you come out of the government groups and talk about the need for us to discuss without doubt – Mr Amon has spoken of paw-low reflexes – but at the same time I read in various newspapers what representatives of your political groups say or in this case representatives of your political groups or the Federal Chancellor. The Federal Chancellor says on the topic of general school that these are “frozen posthorn tones” from the 1960s. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Mr. Gusenbauer does not send his child to the entire school either!]] So if this is not a reflex – and I am now saving myself the addition – then I don't know if all the experts agree that the entire school can be an approach to improve our system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Head of State Pühringer speaks of “Equalizing at the General School”, which we are supposed to save ourselves. – It seems that he has never heard of the fact that overall school does not mean that everyone does the same, but that this is a common school in which a high differentiation takes place, which we never achieve in our system, already divided by the school system and the school organisation, and that is exactly the value of the schools in case they really work well. You are walling before the discussion has even begun. They're closing up completely. One, two days has looked as if the PISA study would give you some thought, as if you were once beginning to at least think about your old models. They from the ÖVP have some people in Styria, for example, who are able to argue differently here and make proposals. Two days, I think, it took. Then the foreign exchange was obvious: We are no longer walling and talking about it, the general school is causing the Pavlov reflex, and there must be no debate on certain topics at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] They then call it “cushion pedagogy. ” I can also talk about ‘pedagogy’ or ‘pedagogy’. You can diffamate anything from each side, but that's what you're doing right now. They do not have a serious debate, but they have immediately closed up in order not to have to carry out this correct analysis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is very good to see on your two requests. The one request you have made, Mrs Brinek, that is to say,'reduction of the two-thirds majority', I really think is nice. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes?]] Where do you want to reduce the two-thirds majority? At the same time... Ah, you want to get rid of them? [[New call of the abg. Dr. Brinek.]] That's interesting! I believe that the FPÖ has also signed the request. There is “reduction”, and I have a certain suspicion, which is, when I listen to what comes from the government bank or from you, namely: The school organisation must not be affected. I guess that's exactly what's right here! You obviously want to reduce it in materials, which are about to rename the subject of physical education or the like. For this, you want the simple majority. On the other hand, you want to leave the school organisation as it is. [[Abg. Amon: Counter proposal!]] That means you don't even want to remember that this could be an overall school. – This is reflected in this proposal, and we will certainly not agree to it. Our proposal is not to reduce, but to abolish the two-thirds majority, and then we see what comes out of the school organisation! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The same applies to the second request: These are the classic populist applications. After a debate in which you have closed everything, you are striking us up here, which says: Please come and discuss with us! You, Mrs. Minister, have not yet explained – and you also say that you cannot explain – how numbers come about that you use yourself. I'll tell you: We are happy to be ready for any dialogue under two conditions: The dialogue is planned jointly, and we are talking together about what the contents of this dialogue are, and the figures are coming to the table, and you are going to announce how you have come to the figures which make up a few billion differences between the budget figures and what you have reported to the OECD. – Before these two conditions are not met, you cannot expect us to enter a dialogue with you on the basis of your content and without a serious analysis!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13855	The next speaker is Mr Brader. His speaking time is 5 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13873	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen Sburny, today's urgent one – as many other educational policy discussions in this House – is characterized by great excitement, and this is no longer surprising, because everyone has a different access to education. I think that this noise in the leaf forest and the severity with which this discussion is conducted is also due to the fact that we are living at a time when tending, evaluating and comparing seems to be the main business of scientists who also live well from this business. [[Abg. Sburny: The severity is due to the disastrous result, and if you don't understand that, I'm sorry!]] If such a study results in a fall by a few points or ranks, then it is immediately referred to a national disaster. I think that is certainly wrong, because you, Dr. Gusenbauer, must also know what this is like if you reach a few points less than you have planned. But apart from the fact that I believe that education is in principle devoid of measurement or at least difficult to measure, because education is indeed an inseparable unit of knowledge and attitude and that attitude cannot be measured empirically, one should nevertheless turn to the current studies very closely. With this in mind, I would like to point out that, for example, in the early school leaving sector, we are significantly better at 9 percent than others, for example, in Finland it is 21 percent. In Austria, the children like to go to school, and I do not see why the Austrian school system is as poorly represented as it happens today. But now to the PISA study, especially on reading. – According to the results of this study, we are three points behind the OECD section regarding reading competence. If you pay attention to the statistical bandwidth, then we are between 12 and 21. It's all right. – I am not pleased with this result! The question now arises: What can you do? – I believe that a wealth of conditions must be fulfilled so that the reading process can succeed well and that the skills acquired in this process will be applied later. First: In particular, it is important to have sufficient linguistic competence, and I believe you will be right to believe that the result of the average reading performance is also dependent on how many children with non-German mother tongues have been checked in this system. This percentage is much higher in Austria than in Finland at 1.8 percent, for example. – As a consequence of this fact, it must be quite simple for the children to acquire sufficient competence in German before entering school, and I can therefore very much welcome the proposal that there should be mandatory funding in the kindergarten in this sector. But from experience I say: This will not be enough if children do not hear a German word in their private environment, and therefore there should also be appropriate training and information for parents. Second point: There are many children who still have developmental neurologic residues at the time of entry into school that endanger the success of the reading process: Optical and acoustic differentiation, spatial location orientation and serial integration skills are, for example, to be promoted in such a way that this reading process can succeed. Studies also show that there is a link between difficulties in the reading process and a sustainable disruption of lifelong motivation for reading. This motivation also suffers if reading in the parents' home is of no importance. With this in mind, we must admit: If computer games and television consumption replace reading, you don't need to wonder if children simply don't want to read. I think we need a new culture of reading, and I would also like to say in view of the upcoming Christmas festival that every book that lies under the Christmas tree is probably worth more than any computer game. Back to school: If we enter into this reform dialogue – and I am very grateful that it will come – I would like us to come to an in-depth discussion on the registration of surface phenomena, and I hope that this dialogue will take place in a more material form than today's discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13910	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13928	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We can be glad that the Austrian students did not answer the PISA questions as you, Mrs. Federal Minister, answered the questions that were urgently addressed to you today. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: My God!]] We would probably have crashed and landed in the last place, Mrs. Federal Minister! And that, I mean, we don't want everyone! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Go, please!]] Since 2000, I have had the dubious pleasure of experiencing your reform and your school-political blockade policy from a very close point of view in the teaching committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] What is happening there – I remember last week – is really a failure, delay, delay and rejection of all the opposition ideas, and I believe that really doesn't bring us any further! Those who experience school and are therefore massively dissatisfied, namely the students and their parents, have been ignored by you for years. You have known for years that something is wrong here and that there is a need, re-forms – real reforms! - to initiate. I recall the educational demand in 2001 with 48 626 signatures, and I recall citizens' initiatives to ensure the level of education and to reduce the number of students. Only this year have there been 90 000 signatures to ensure the quality of school in compulsory education. All this comes from the population, from the people who experience it massively, how school is and how school works on it, and the – unfortunately! – Acknowledge that the PISA results are in line with the facts. Your measures, which you have always sold us as reforms over the last four years, are in fact savings policy! What you have done in the last four years has not been reforms! They have always overturned the cover “reform” and thus saved away lessons of 2.7 million lessons throughout the school life. 4.2 million of these have been lost only in funding hours, there are 5 000 compulsory school teachers less, and more than € 220 million for this can be enjoyed by Federal Minister Grasser. – All these are truly not reforms of the school system, Mrs. Federal Minister! Rather, the sad results of all of these measures you have put are now on the table in the form of the PISA study! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] The main raw material of the Austrian economy is that people, well-trained, knowledge-loving and learning-loving people, educated and educated people, and therefore, Mrs Federal Minister, we have also submitted appropriate applications for real reforms. We from SPÖ are ready for dialogue. We have prepared an educational programme and I would like to draw your attention – you probably know it anyway – to: This education programme is essentially in line with the results of the Future Reform Commission. We demand from you real reforms that benefit people in Austria who benefit the children who benefit our future. – In this context, I would like to quote you yourself. You said today in your answer to the question: We need people who do not believe all that is prescribed to them. – These reforms also need our school system, namely with another school. Therefore, end your blockade policy in education, and finally join us in a genuine reform dialogue! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e13996	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14015	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Has You might read the “curier ” yesterday? – That would be absolutely worthwhile! Christoph Kotanko writes an article about PISA: “Learning effect and false conclusions”, and the title is actually as if he had already wanted to comment on this debate, as it was led above all by the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] It notes: Finland triumphs in the PISA test, but it is necessary to warn against a supposed ideal. The conditions in Finland are not necessarily transferable. If you are here blaming that there will always be the rejection of reflex on the part of the government parties, then I can say: There's no problem with you. always the reflex on: All of this is because we don't have the entire school. The proportion of students tested with non-German mother tongues was 6.7 percent in Austria four years ago, and the current study was already 9 percent, i.e. almost a third more. In Finland, it was consistently only 1.8 percent who had not grown up with the language of teaching. Language skills are a success factor at PISA! And I think you have to see this very clearly, even if you may not like it so well: The multicultural school has failed, not only with regard to those who cannot acquire education because of their lack of knowledge of the language of education. Rather, in a school – and these 39 percent in Vienna in the general school of folk school are only an average – in which more than 90 percent children with non-German mother tongue and still with different mother tongues can not be taught. Of course, they suffer not only those who cannot follow the teaching but also those who could follow him. No one can learn anything! If PISA asked for a basic knowledge and demanded that this be linked to solutions, then you should also keep it that way with a correct analysis and take this setting. Where did it get the most? – In the field of reading skills. I am now very clear: The year 1987 was checked. This year was in the first class of folk school in 1993 and in 1994 in the second class. At the end of the second class, meaningful reading should be controlled. At the time, Scholten was Minister of Education. Now, if you're accusing me that Mrs. Minister should have fixed this, I'll tell you: Apparently, under a social-democratic ministry, the folk school was so poorly constituted that there were students who could not read. Another fundamental issue is: The AHS cut off very well or are on average. Badly bad, polytechnic courses and vocational schools are cut off. That would really bother me now! I would see social discrimination, but not in the fact that we do not have an overall school! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Who is going to the polytechnic schools in Vienna? – Those who have not learned the reading before! And when I see a real escape from public schools in Vienna, I really care, and I think you as social democrats should also be sorry if, so to speak, a lost remnant of which we want him to be the skilled worker of the future cannot even follow written recommendations to 20 percent. I believe that the proposals that come from you are really “frozen posthorn tones”. That's what we've heard for decades! I say that the content in the school is going in your direction more and more anyway. In my school years, one had to repeat because it was impossible to get up with a not enough. That was impossible in good schools, but now it's all possible. So it's going in your direction anyway, and it's actually getting worse and not better! If you, Mr President, say: This school policy is a thing of the past! Yesterday, at least after visiting a public school in Austria, it was possible to read!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14097	The last speaker is Mr Oellinger. His speaking time is 3 minutes and thus corresponds to the remaining speaking time of his group. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14115	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If we had not been able to read the sentences of Mr Brinek yesterday or yesterday in the “Kurier” – she said: We do not need a change in the field of school organisation, since we are already mature – then the sense of the application of the ÖVP would not fully open up to us. For you, Mrs Brinek, Mr Amon and Mrs Rossmann, who are making this request, say: We want a corresponding constitutional change to reduce the need for qualified majority in school laws, then this is only so interpretable in this context that you want to reduce only in some areas. You do not want to go back to the simple majority in general, but of course you want to maintain the qualified majority in the school organisation. The Minister will probably make a proposal to extend the early warning system and start on the first day of school. Then you are satisfied! – Faith Do you really think we can start such a reform dialogue with you after this PISA study?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Faith You are really saying that we are going a step further, Mrs Brinek, when you say: The opposition speaks everything sick and bad, there is nothing at all that we should change!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I didn't say that!]] In contrast, Mr Rosenkranz has seen this problem very well, but she says: The foreigners are to blame. – You have to give it to yourself: Mrs. Rosenkranz found a scapegoat! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: How is it in Vienna, where there are classes in which no German can be German?]] We all agreed, however, that this is not about the search for scapegoats. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very bad condition for a reform dialogue. Since we will not be relaxed on the questions of the school organisation, I would like to inform you as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We must go into the debate, without exception, unconditionally, and not yet again, with conditions which exclude the essential parts of what is to be changed, from any reform. That's not how it can be, Mrs. Brinek! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you draw a summary out of this debate, you can only say: If the beautiful speech, the praise, the false calculation and the overturning disciplines had been at PISA, then the government parties would probably have the top priority at PISA. But unfortunately this is not for the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14208	Now, Mrs Magnette has taken his stand. Grossmann on a speech of 4 minutes to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14227	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger's request is to be fully supported, because then, Mrs Minister, you really lose any opportunity to shift responsibility for your actions or your omissions to the opposition for even longer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You have to answer these misguided errors in education policy, so please stand by them, too. The PISA study, which is under discussion today, is not the first one, as we know. Already the study published in 2001 should have blazed all alarm bells because already massive performance deficits of Austrian students were evident at the time. But more massive than the performance deficits of children are the performance deficits of the Minister of Education. The two PISA studies have clearly shown that your education policy has started weakly and then left much behind, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Instead of taking the warnings of PISA 1 seriously, you have formally missed yourself in your own praise and have not become tired of praising the framework conditions created by you. The framework conditions you have created are now that Austria has provided this blamable result – a result that does wrong to young people in that country, because it cannot support the fact that their potential is not adequately promoted. And this result is indebted to your lack of education policy – and here you have to clearly name responsibility – for young people on the European labour market. Even German Chancellor Schüssel – but only in Sunday’s speeches – recognizes that our most important raw material is well-trained people. The most important raw material is that between the ears, he literally meant. Only, ladies and gentlemen, this raw material is wasted on us. The first PISA study clearly showed that much too much remains on the track during the sorting process at the age of ten. Austria was also recommended for high quality full-day care. You should have read this study very carefully, Mrs. Minister. If you master the technique of mind-taking reading, which I assume is, because I do not want to risk a call for order, then you will realize that you have many recommendations. to be found in traditional SPÖ requirements in PISA studies 1 and 2. Demands such as total school, high-quality all-day school, fear-free learning, learning through motivation and so on have been defamated by you and yours again and again as forced-day schools, single-pot schools, chaos schools. Mr Brosz is right with his findings. They have always blocked, blocked, blocked and proud of all the reform proposals made by the PISA study authors, the Future Commission, parents, and students' representatives, for example, that they have been able to prevent the danger of the school as a whole. No one knows what you are afraid of, except that in future it will depend less on the parents' wallet, which educational and thus future opportunities have children. A very shocking aspect of the study is that school is increasingly perceived as stressful, humiliating and ill. I believe that this is also a very essential reason for the poor cut-off of our youth. In the economy, it has already been recognized that only well-motivated employees are permanently powerful employees, and this knowledge should also be found in everyday school. It is very interesting that, in my opinion, the most advanced educational institutions in the country, children who are eager to learn and who want to know come to school and it only takes very few years...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14284	I would ask you not to turn your back on the speaker, especially the parliamentary staff should not do this! [[Abg. May. Grossmann: There is worse, Mr President.]] I call Mrs Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14311	Then, in a few years, school frustration and motivation are developing. What we need is a school in which everyone feels comfortable, the teachers and the students. Then, I think, the achievements will also be true.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14338	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for Kuntzl for 4 minutes to the speaker's desk, which is the rest of their group's speaking time. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14356	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In response to this really humiliating outcome of the PISA study, the general language regime of the government parties has said: unagitated. “Unagitated” was also the word that shaped the presentation a few days ago. I must tell you, I do not understand the slight excitement, if you look at the result alone, that the number in the so-called risk group, i.e. those who are unable to read meaningfully, has increased significantly. Not only that 20 percent in itself are a terrifying value, but it must be said that over the last few years we have become a third worse. So, against this background, I would say that your reaction is not intrusive, but, in my opinion, unhindered, it is also in the House today if I look at the requests you have made. There is a request to ask the government to make a reform dialogue which it has already announced and wants to make. Secondly, What about the reform dialogue? We have already experienced your reform dialogues, which are a mere two-hour production of the self-representation. We do not need such a reform dialogue, but we need serious parliamentary negotiations, discussions, analyses involving experts, school partners and cetera. Longer, more serious, publicly comprehensible, implementation-oriented and not a two-hour production. It's intrusive, insanity and far too little. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Because of ‘blockade’: Firstly, I do not know where in recent years we have had the opportunity to block something more extensive. You didn't put anything on the table. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because you already know that you block everything!]] I would also like to remind you that there is a high level of consensus in this country, where what has to be done. The Commission on the Future, which the Federal Minister himself has set up, has made important proposals. - Nothing happened! The Institute for Family Research has made important proposals. - Nothing happened! The opposition parties, including the country politicians of your own party, have made proposals in the same direction, substantial, serious, good proposals. - Nothing happened! Where the blockade is here in the house is quite clear. You should take your own nose instead of telling the others that they do not cooperate enough. They are now invited to initiate a reflection process and really move, instead of simply simply blocking ideologically, and to deal with the proposals already on the table. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] One more word to the parents, ladies and gentlemen. The parents are looking for responsibility for the result presented. Of course, parents have a great responsibility for the learning progress of their children, and they do. Only, the cooperation with the parents must expand the school: Information, including, everything. But the responsibility for the learning progress, for the learning success of the children, which remains with the school, which must be observed in the school, better than before. Where we have to start, especially in three areas, the debate has become quite clear: early promotion, which we have to take much more seriously. We need a right of every child to a childcare centre in the sense of the educational institution Kindergarten. We cannot expect the parents to continue to decide at 10 years of age which school they come to, as the educational path looks like. At this age, the potential for development cannot be estimated. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion, Mr President: All day schools are urgently expanded, in the sense of learning success in school and not at home.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14421	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Amon, Mr Rossmann, colleagues on the reform dialogue on education. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request was adopted by a majority. (E 79.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Amon, Mr Rossmann, Mr President, on the rapid and efficient implementation of school reform measures. [[Abg. Oils: Ha, ha!]] I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This request has also been adopted by a majority. (E 80.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, colleagues on the abolition of qualified majority voting in school laws as a prerequisite for a comprehensive reform of the school system. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Call the SPÖ – with regard to the voting behaviour of the ÖVP and the liberals –:Oh!]] – The request does not find the necessary majority and is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14487	I will resume the negotiations on points 3 and 4 of the agenda. Mr Dkfm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Dr. Bauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14508	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After continuing the debate on the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, I would like to add a few points. The transfer to the Austrian legal system has taken place in a part, and, of course, it has also been a matter of improving the EIA law. In fact, this EIA law novelle brings a number of improvements with regard to the increased involvement of the public and NGOs. This is a step forward, even as far as the communities are concerned. But this law cannot be referred to as the great throw that should be addressed on the basis of the previous experiences. The EIA law offers the possibility of a conflict with game rules, but a new culture of conflict between management, project promoters and a self-confident public needs to be developed. The proposed ad hoc recognition, rather than prior recognition by the Federal Minister, makes this positive approach of a wider public participation a little sad. The often used argument of a reduction in costs, ladies and gentlemen, must also be doubted, as it is more likely that additional costs will be expected, for example by the increased staff costs due to the implementation of an authorisation procedure or by the exception of the transport policy coordination of the Federal Road Law. Another drops of advertising is not taking into account the concerns of nature conservation and water rights in a process. What would have been necessary in view of the recognition of the Administrative Court was obviously not accepted on the grounds of the objections of the countries. This is to be regretted because it would be important for an inclusive opinion to be included in the assessment and not for the Federal Minister to be asked to take over the coordination function. There's a huge difference. Finally, I would like to say that, of course, the issue of the 10-kilometre limit on the EIA is supplemented by co-calculation schemes, but above all, noise standards are not set. I urgently call for the environmental noise law and the corresponding regulation. Only then are citizens really involved and able to act against noise and to demand that appropriate measures be taken. In conclusion: It is progress in certain areas and it also means the search for a balance on this important issue that has been initiated between the economy and the issues of ecology. In this sense, there is agreement from us, but at the same time we must be aware that much remains to be done in this area and that this law needs to be further developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14554	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14572	Ladies and gentlemen! We have already discussed a lot today about the Spielberg-new project, about the investments that should be made in this region, in the upper Murtal, Aichfeld-Murboden. As one who comes from this region, lives there, has spent his childhood there, a region that has made a big change and is still ahead, I would like to address the importance of this project because I believe that many times it is not yet known what impact this 700 million € investment has in this region not only for the upper Murtal and for the Styria, but ultimately for the whole of Austria. This is not a question of white-green, but for me it is a question of red-and-white red and for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! This region has experienced the collapse of the state industry and has understood it with its own strength and a lot of dynamic to secure jobs in this region. Nevertheless, we have problems to solve. And I think we have opportunities. This 700 million investment in this region means 10,000 jobs by 2010; 2,000 jobs per year for Austria by 2010; that is not what I say, but that is what the Economic Research Institute says; and half of them in Styria, which is also due to research and development work. That is why, as I believe, we have everything to do, even here in this Parliament, and therefore we also support the motion for a resolution to be tabled and, of course, we also agree, because it concerns the future of this region. It's about jobs, it's about employment. I also say quite frankly, Mrs Glavischnig, it is a shame to look for mistakes in this context in the past. The only thing that people in this region want is that politics is now closed and together tries to create those conditions within the framework of the rule of law – and of course I am adding – so that this project can be implemented accordingly for people in this region, for those in Styria and for people in Austria. That is why I ask you to reconsider your choice of words on this project. And maybe think about it. I would also like to ask you whether you can still vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14612	Mr Grillitsch, you have not tabled the motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Grill: He's being brought in!]] - He's being brought in. We are getting closer and closer to the vote, and I am likely to postpone the vote. [[Call the SPÖ: This is a scandal!]] [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14657	The EIA Act requires two-thirds majority. – But it’s too early now that it’s already lit. [[the speaker points to the already illuminating lamp in the speaker’s coil]] Thank you. Parts of the EIA law require the two-thirds majority, i.e. there has also been intensive negotiations in advance. I would like to point out that I am sorry that only if there is a two-thirds matter will Parliamentaryism come to life at once, while otherwise this is not the case very often. However, the negotiations have brought about something, including the reduction of procedures in transport projects, the access of local authorities to the administrative court and the better party position for NGOs. I think that the environmental spokesman of the SPÖ, Jan Krainer, has certainly negotiated very well here and has also passed his fire baptism as an environmental speaker, even though he himself says he has no two smiling eyes. I'm sure, Jan, next time you have reason for two smiling eyes. Over the years, the EIA law has been very often updated. A number of changes have been made, both positive and negative, positive as regards the extension of the participation rights of those concerned, negative as regards the reduction of thresholds, which indicate when an EIA needs to be made at all. Over the years, the EIA law has also become much more complicated, more bulky and difficult to implement, so that I think that a new texting, a new version and a new adoption in the interests of all parties involved would be in the process, citizens, communities, investors, citizens' initiatives as well as NGOs, with the overarching objective of course, always give the environment a vote to give ecology a mandate. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it would really be in all our sense – and especially in the sense of the environment – if there would be a more readable, more enforceable law here, and I hope that this motion for a resolution will be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14721	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bayr by Mrs Gusenbauer, Mr Krainer and Mr Colleagues on the preparation of a new EIA law is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14776	The honourable Member's head has now been reported on the floor. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14794	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am tabling two amendments. At the first request of Members Kopf, Wittauer, Krainer to draft a federal law that amends the Federal Road Law 1971 and the High Performance Track Act, it is essentially a matter of establishing a transitional period that projects, for which before the 31st century, will be implemented. On 1 December 2004 the preliminary procedure was completed in accordance with the EIA Act and until 31 December 2004. In May 2005, the race-fixing procedure was initiated, which allows for the negotiation of the previous legal situation. Further: If it is established in a finding that an EIA procedure is not necessary, a notification procedure should not be required in the event of changes in the level of more than five metres. The second amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000 is essentially about the fact that the local community can appeal to the Administrative Court against decisions, § 3 para. 7, that NGOs, i.e. recognized environmental organisations, have a party position. Another point is: If, from other procedures, an authority has acquired substantial knowledge of the content of a project, such knowledge shall be taken into account, and in this case, the time limits for decision shall be reduced by three months each, which makes sense in such projects where the Authority already has substantial knowledge of content. There is a broad consensus on these two amendments in the House, so I would ask for your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14831	Mr Kopf, Mr Wittauer, Mr Krainer's motion for a resolution on the report and request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. According to § 53 para. 4 GOG to the MEPs. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e14917	The second amendment tabled by Mr Kopf, Mr Wittauer, Mr Krainer, on the Government template 648 of the Supplements is also explained in the key points, is under negotiation and is equally distributed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15030	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. His speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15049	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Unfortunately, at the beginning ÖVP and FPÖ were not ready to discuss in detail with SPÖ about the so important EIA law. We were therefore unable to accept the government template, which had some weaknesses. Finally, the acid course of the ÖVP could be loosened a little so that we can now give this law the consent. The current overall solution is not quite perfect for us, but at least more enjoyable than the original design. Despite many weaknesses, the law is, in some respects, a positive development of the existing EIA law. It is, I mean, a lot more to do, as I can show you by a specific example. In my district of Leoben, a high-performance ÖBB line was built in Liesingtal a few years ago. The building was set up in such a way that the construction sections always moved in a length of less than ten kilometres. Therefore, no environmental impact assessment was required. The negative consequence was and is that no noise protection walls had to be built and no one was built. Now there is a constant and, I would like to say, completely unacceptable noise pollution. There is an increase in train traffic here. In addition, instead of the previous wooden thresholds, these were used around much louder concrete thresholds. Therefore, in our region, the mayors filed a case at the Administrative Court in order to achieve the construction of noise protection measures. This decision of the Administrative Court has already lasted for more than four years. I believe that this period must be described as completely incomprehensible and unacceptable for those affected. It should therefore be looked in time at how much the population will suffer from noise in the future. Above all, construction operators need to be made clear from the outset that adequate noise protection devices need to be built. Thus, years of legal disputes and undue burdens on the arrants could be prevented. I therefore call on the Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to draw up and implement such improvements in the interests of the many people affected by this noise. One point must definitely be clarified here: The noise pollution, not the construction time, must be decisive in deciding whether noise protection measures should be imposed, because the people concerned should at least have a right to noise protection measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15094	Next word: Mr Rädler. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15112	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glavischnig introduced the political year of commemoration with the memories of Hainburg. However, I can also refer to ten years of EIA law. Especially as Lower Austrian Members, we have great experience with the EIA law on the basis of many road projects, and 100 percent of these experiences are positive. But we also have another commemoration in the near future, namely next year: five years of very successful environmental policy in this Federal Government. I think that the initiative to attach bio-sprit to the fuel has been a pioneer, that next year, with the initiative to promote the retrofitting of cars with particulate filters, we will again have an environmental pioneering role, and we are also an environmental leader in achieving the Kyoto target with the Emissions Certificate Act, which regulates the trading of certificates. It has already been stressed several times today that the current novel to the EIA Act is an important step, in accordance with the Aarhus Convention, signed by 35 nations which are committed to the principles of this Convention, to a greater form of civil participation. It is also gratifying that the Chamber of Labour Austria calls this bill an important step towards modernising environmental law, and I am I am pleased that there is a broad consensus here on this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15152	The next speaker is Mrs Rossmann. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15170	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to my speech on this item on the agenda and in view of the importance that Spielberg might still have a solution, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking for acceptance because I think it's an important step to send the signal with a three-party agreement that it's serious to us that this project is being realized.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15227	The motion for a resolution tabled and tabled by Mrs Rossmann by Mrs Grillitsch, Gradwelt, Rossmann, Amon, Hoscher, Wittauer, colleagues on the future project Motorsportszentrum Spielberg is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15290	As the last speaker, Mr Ing. Winkler to the speaker's desk. He too wishes a speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15308	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In view of the short speaking time and also The fact that most of it has been said simply, twice and triplely, is that I can limit myself to the renewal of the EIA law, namely the future integration of non-governmental organisations, that is, NGOs who will be involved in decisions on EIA-based projects in the future. I do not need to stress that this is a major environmental progress, since many aspects of nature conservation are now included in the environmental impact assessment from the outset by the involvement of environmental organisations. This means that many EIA procedures will no longer take longer, but will be shorter, namely by allowing many ambiguities or inconsistencies, I believe, to be eliminated at the beginning of the procedure. By involving as many stakeholders as possible from the beginning of the process, optimal solutions can be found in the form of an objective discussion process for project promoters and pilots, so that the main objective of the present EIA-Novelle – namely to create legal clarity and security for investors – is taken into account. This will also ensure the location of existing companies and probably also a resettlement of additional businesses. Thus, many positive employment effects can be expected in all companies or industries directly affected. I have already heard that there is an agreement here, but I am once again seeking the approval of this law and therefore of more environmental protection and more democracy and not least more jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15350	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. His speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15379	Mr President. You know what the consequences are – for those outside my group and for those within my group. I am not going to do it too long in any way, in so far as I am referring only to the motion for a resolution which has been officially tabled. I do not want to complain, however, that I had at least been indirectly informed before, and I would like to express my views on this and also briefly justify the voting behaviour of the Greens. This is the so-called project Motorsportszentrum Spielberg. I can predict that we Greens are not in principle opposed to the project, if, of course, it is moving within the legal framework, but that we have in mind a procedure which I would like to offer you briefly and which would contribute much more to a possible and arbitrary success than this motion for a resolution here suggests. Let's just take a little thought in the backward direction, say: in the past. It has been said that this is not to be done, but the Styrian government has not only done so sloppy, as Mrs Glawischnig has said, but has acted against better knowledge and law-abiding. You can't be surprised when something like that comes out at the end! The basic idea was to signal Mateschitz and his alleged or actual investment € 700 million: Come on, come on, we'll make this for you. – Whoever reads the interviews with him knows of course that he thinks so himself. That is why, I think, it was actually not fair to Mr Mateschitz as an investor, if one wants to consider it this way, because it was done here, as if a project without any specific amendments, without major problems can simply be realized. Now we have a motion for a resolution here, which is not about a modified project, about a project that should do enough of those laws that this National Council has adopted here, but it is always about “the project”. It is quite possible to get the impression that the decisions of the authorities and the laws should be adapted to the project, but the project should not be in line with the decision of the procedure, first formally and second, also in terms of content. That this is the wrong way, you know, when you're dealing with the matter more closely, and some of us have done that. I do not agree with anyone's good will here, in no case, even in the SPÖ Group. I have now heard from the discussions within the political groups that this is about a few cracks, but this resolution points in the completely wrong direction. Of course, there or there would have to be some kind of a renunciation. Then the money has to be available for this! Of course, it would be necessary to say that there is a need for such a thing as redundancies or that it needs something like an extended emission protection, where the state government is simply sparse. – And many more points. If You look at the quotations from the negative decision of the Environmental Senate, then you see how in the truest sense of the word was carried out here in the Styria – done! Literally quoted: The procedure and the notification of the first instance are with serious formal and material shortcomings – not only with formal but also with material defects! ................................................................................................................................................................... It is completely incomprehensible to the Senate that there has not been a single requirement proposal for these central areas. - Quote. Yes, this might have helped the project in a modified form and perhaps not with a superrendite, but only with a superrendite minus one to break through! Something else – colleague Herbs has already mentioned this a few times –: The Styrian government has no problem at all of subsidising €90 million of taxpayers here, without the fact that it is somehow clear to this day what exactly and with what binding this tax money is provided for. It is well known that these are federal contributions that flow there; we are talking about the financial compensation. No human is interested in what and with what purpose these amounts are made available. €90 million, Mr Grillitsch – it is just too adventurous to proceed in this way! That is why the National Council – and I am still appealing to the individual Members – should not proceed with a resolution that, because it is supposed to be always about the signals, suggests: Yes, let the project be as it is, and now all stand together so that we can somehow put it over – about the laws of this House, about the authority that is obviously a renite in the eyes of the ÖVP. I find it adventurous, which is claimed in the Styria by members of the state government! I quote literally: a “conspiracy” against the Steirers anyway, okay, but “the one in Vienna” – and now comes – the “Pröll-Partie”, literally! This is obviously the Minister of the Environment – who is now no longer present – because an official of his place is sitting in the independent Senate, and it is meant by the Lower Austrian head of state, because there is also a Lower Austrian official in it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Once you get together a little bit and drag You don't have this problem in the National Council in this way! There would have been a great deal of failure – and I am now concluding – to signal a process that Mr Mateschitz or other investors have been doing: a project proposal that is being examined by the appropriate authority, and then you can see what is going on and what is not going on, and that would also tell the project promoter, please! [[Abg. Grillich: (a brochure holding high) Colleague Kogler, do you know the Wifo study?]] But not: hide serial negative opinions and then let the whole thing go against the wall – that was your attitude in the Styria, that has become system there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And you will suffer the same drop at the 380 CV line, regardless of whether the energy policy is smart or not. [[Abg. Grill: Greens against jobs!]] Because there the negative opinions in the box are already cleared. This is a method that has already become a system, and it does not at all wonder that the EStAG scandal could take place in Styria in this way. [[Abg. Grill: Greens against jobs in the region!]] That does not mean green against jobs at all! I've expected you to throw that again. On the contrary: I am in favour of a process that makes a project capable of being implemented. What, then, does the National Council have if it decides to support a project that is not enforceable, ultimately against its own laws? This is absurd, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call to the Freeman: Green Prevention Policy!]] Don't come with us! We will, of course, look forward to the debate. That is why we have not tabled our own motion for a resolution, because we do not believe that the National Council has anything to do with it by resolution, and not the independent Senate at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15475	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a difficult vote in front of us when we have received amendments very late. However, it is a three-party amendment, and I assume that all three parties who have supported this request also know him. I asked the Green Clubman if he had any objections to an immediate vote. He has no objections. But I personally need a few minutes to check the Croquis. That is why I am interrupting the session for a short time.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15516	I'll start the interrupted session again. Before we reach the vote, I ask all the ladies and gentlemen to take the seats. Mr Keussnigg, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting for a cigarette. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft EIA law Novelle 2004 in 757 of the Supplements. Mr Kopf, Mr Wittauer, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall vote on the draft law as amended by the above amendment. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 757 of the supplements, as amended by the amendment tabled by Members Kopf, Wittauer, Krainer, colleagues. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted with the two-thirds majority constitutionally required. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – This is also accepted again with the required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 757 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – The request reaches the majority and is therefore accepted. (E 81.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grillitsch, Mr Gradwohl, Mr Rossmann, colleagues on the future project Motorsportszentrum Spielberg. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is also accepted by the majority. (E 82.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues, on the preparation of a new EIA law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This request does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. Finally, we reach the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Road Law and the High Performance Track Act, including the title and entry into 758 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have tabled an additional amendment or amendment. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, taking account of the proposed amendment. We shall come to the vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt in 758 of the supplements, taking into account the supplementary or amendment tabled by Members Kopf, Wittauer, Krainer, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – The request was accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law finds the majority, it is therefore also adopted at third reading. 5. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (672 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the 2002 Waste Management Act (AWG-Novelle 2004) (759 d.b.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 437/A by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues on a federal law with which the Federal Law on Sustainable Waste Management (Law on Waste Management 2002-AWG 2002) BGBl. I No. 102/2002 is amended (760 d.a.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 29/A (E) by Mr Mag. Ulrike Sima, Members of Parliament on the introduction of disposable passports or disposable charges to reduce packaging waste (761 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 244/A by Mr Mag. Ulrike Sima, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on a Sustainable Waste Management (Waste Management Act 2002-AWG 2002) BGBl. I No. 102/2002 is amended (762 d.a.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 312/A (E) by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues on the system of mobile phone charges (763 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15706	We shall now proceed to points 5 to 9 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Oberhaidinger spoke. Its welcome time is 3 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15733	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the agenda items 5 to 9 already addressed by the President, essentially directives are to be transposed into the Waste Management Act. There are a number of opposition parties' requests to make waste management more sustainable in our country. I only mention the keywords waste prevention, disposable or disposable taxes, as well as a mobile phone deposit system. Unfortunately, we have to note that the Federal Government or the government parties take observer status on these issues – whatever you understand about them; I have the impression that they are leaning back and looking at how the garbage mountains in our country are growing and no valid answers are found. [[Abg. Wittauer: Do you have the right law? Mr. Oberhaidinger, have you done the right thing about what you read?]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Similarly critical, Mr Wittauer, we see how the directive on electronics scrap is to be implemented in this context. For example, manufacturers are only obliged to participate in the collection system; how – how this should happen – one is silently silent. [[Abg. Wittauer: Must be clarified in the regulation!]] It is likely, Mr Wittauer, that a manufacturer will be satisfied that he will put in a leaflet where to dispose of it, and that could then be regarded as a participation. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's not the goal!]] In contrast, the government and the government take the municipalities very clearly into account: They are obliged to set up tax offices. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing that makes devices no longer return to the manufacturer is causing the loss of responsibility for service life and product design – and this was originally remembered. [[Abg. Wittauer:... unloaded!]] Secondly, we fear a significant additional burden on our customers. [[Abg. Wittauer: I thought you were for it!]] Why? – The directive explicitly provides for free return. This principle will be broken down by the financial burden of the municipalities. What will the congregations do? – They will either charge fees at the same time as the withdrawal – that is nothing new – if they want to waste more financial burden and have to, or if they do not do so, they will simply increase the amount of garbage over a short or long period of time and thus put the resulting additional burden on all local citizens. For these reasons, we will not agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15835	Mr Steindl is now speaking to us. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15854	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Oberhaidin-er, it is not as dramatic as you have done this. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: It will be, Mr colleague, it will be!]] In particular, the basic guidelines of waste management under the 2002 Waste Management Act are the precautionary principle, which takes account of the flow of substances into account in terms of ecological circulation in order to protect man and the environment, conservation of natural resources and disposal of emission-neutral residues while preserving landfill space. The Federal Government has submitted to the National Council a draft waste management law Novelle 2004 under Supplement 672. As a result, the topic of electronic old devices is becoming increasingly relevant to our electronics manufacturers. This government template includes the national implementation of the EU Directive on electrical and electronic devices in Austrian law. The last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection took place with the majority of government parties. I very much regret that the members of the opposition parties could not go along with it. In this novel, manufacturers and importers of electrical and electronic old equipment are obliged to set up collectibles and to participate in collection and recycling systems for historical devices. The municipalities have to set up charging points for electrical and electronic equipment; they are already available to the most extent. The obligation of manufacturers and importers to bear the disposal costs is one of the cornerstones of this law. The interests of the municipalities are taken into account, and it is clear that citizens can deliver old equipment free of charge at the collective offices of the municipalities or at the dealers. Manufacturers and municipalities have to make agreements about the details. The detailed provisions include free return for household appliances and the obligation of trade to withdraw an old device of the same type or function free of charge in the case of repurchasing an electric or electronic device. The total target of 4 kilograms per capita and year is to be achieved by the end of 2006. The financing of the transport of old household appliances from the collection offices or tax offices as well as the treatment must also be carried by manufacturers and importers, so no costs for the municipalities are incurred. This innovation will continue to strengthen the environmental policy of this Federal Government in a sustainable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15890	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. Desirable time: 7 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15909	Mr President. Minister! – Where is the Environment Minister? [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: May I reply?]] Yes. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: Abroad!]] Aha, abroad. On this point: It is a novel to the Waste Management Act, which essentially implements three EU Directives. In the meantime, Austrian environmental legislation is only being amended or amended when it comes to the implementation of EU directives. These are three directives. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Firstly, there is the Strategic Environmental Assessment Directive, second, the Electro- and Electronic-Altgeräte Directive, and thirdly, there is a Public Participation Directive, which is an issue that we have already had today, namely participation. From a green point of view, it should be said that the Electronic-Altgeräte Directive is satisfactoryly implemented. That is to say, everything that is needed from the EU level is now also included in this legislative proposal. The other two directives are not implemented satisfactorily. I explain this by an example. For example, it is required that a draft waste management plan be drawn up and that the public concerned be given the opportunity to participate in the preparation, amendment and revision of such a waste management programme early and effectively. This means being involved early and before, and not simply evaluating a finished product. Austrian implementation now looks like the plan is being completed, and six weeks before the final completion, citizens have the opportunity to deliver an opinion on it. This is neither early nor effective in any way, nor does it mean an actual participation in a process, and that is not meant by the EU. This is a reduction in implementation, which I believe the European Union will not accept. It is also incomprehensible that everyone can look at this over the Internet, but the Chambers of Commerce, the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture, the Chambers of Workers, the Federal Chamber of Commerce, the Municipal Association and the Municipal Association will receive this extra. I do not understand why it is always difficult to bring citizens into this situation, why there is always a special treatment of certain institutions, and the citizen and the citizen who is involved in this implementation of the directive must download over the Internet, why there is no other way of thinking here, for example, that this does not automatically provide citizens' initiatives or environmental organisations, NGOs and civil society. I don't understand this predicament. The last point is also problematic from my point of view. It has also been used in this new law to improve, which has come to us from the European level, to bring about a deterioration in the standard. This is also a matter of participation: NGOs and the public concerned cannot seek review at the Administrative Court. In my opinion, this is also against the spirit of the Aarhus Convention, this Citizen Participation Convention, on which we are now making this whole change in the participative field of Austrian environmental law. [[Abg. Wittauer:... refers to the EIA again!]] For this reason, we regrettably cannot agree to this law, although I believe that the electronic equipment directive has been properly implemented. But with living participation, as it should actually be a command of the hour, the implementation unfortunately has nothing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15981	Mr Wittauer is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e15999	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mrs Glavischnig, it is strange that you always know exactly what the EU wants. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: You just have to read the guidelines!]] This is your view of the relationship between Austria and the EU. I'll hold on to this. Greens want to show us to the EU. This is your Austrian policy! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, exactly!]] Yes, this is their Austrian policy! You do the same with the environment. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Do you know how many procedures are under way in the EU?]] You know very well that the environmental standards in Austria are the number one in Europe. [[Call at the SPÖ: Beings!]] Now you can preach as much as you want, it's like that. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] If you claim that the NGOs and the citizens' initiatives have no rights of participation, I must tell you: They forget that the Waste Management Act refers to the EIA, i.e. what is contained there, is also applicable here. But maybe you didn't really look at the two things together. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Do you know what we're talking about?]] Especially in the communities outside, everyone knows the problem that in the forests and meadows simply refrigerators are stored, washing machines are stored. The collection of these equipment costs far more, Mrs Glavischnig. If the communities have to collect it again, it costs far more than setting up a collection site. You know that! It is important that this is done for the public. I remember there was a green request for the phones to set up a fee. We do it differently: The mobile phones can now be delivered to the community as well, and I think this offer will also be accepted by every citizen. He never knew where to go with this electric scrap or electronic scrap. Now he knows where to put him. Financing is also regulated. It means: The manufacturer is responsible. It doesn't have to be in the law! It is always demanded that the laws be respected. Certain things can be regulated in a regulation, and this is also explained in a regulation. It can't be that we write everything and everyone, for example, if it fits you right now, into the law, but it should be so that the law contains the framework conditions; that's the essential thing about it. In my opinion, the establishment of a coordination body between the collection and the collection system and the collection systems is also useful. The creation of the legal basis for the data system, for electronic data management, from which a European data system is to be created by 2009, is, I believe, also an essential progress. We must not always say in the House that we will not do anything until when we are forced to do something. It is quite clear that we will also do something if it is good for the environment if it is good for the consumer, and finally it results in it being good for the economy as well. The aim is, however, to implement European harmonisation, because it is also a European problem, not just an Austrian problem. That's what we're working on, and we're working very well on it. Mrs Glavischnig, give yourself a back and agree with this good law!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16105	Mr Strasser, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, is speaking. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16124	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the presence of the Minister for the Environment, who, I believe, is now on the way to Brazil, I can comment on the issues raised, in particular the Waste Management Act, on the November 2004. Precautionary principle and sustainability principle, these are the foundations for Austrian environmental policy in the field of waste management. We focus on three basic guiding principles: prevention, recovery and disposal. In this context, the Novelle 2004 and three areas of the implementation of the Public Participation Directive will ensure that the public can be more informed and involved in the preparation of the Federal Waste Management Plan and in approval procedures for larger treatment facilities. Secondly, Implementation of the Strategic Environmental Assessment Directive. This Directive lays down when plans and programmes are to be subject to strategic environmental review, the preparation of an environmental report, public participation, the involvement of environmental authorities in the process and, where appropriate, cross-border consultations. The most important area is the implementation of the directive on electrical and electronic equipment, so that after this innovation from 13. On 1 August 2005, all old and broken electrical appliances will be withdrawn free of charge from the appropriate collection facilities or trade throughout the EU. The aim is: About four kilograms of electrical scrap per EU citizen and year are to be collected in this way. The existing collective structures of the municipalities are used further. The treatment costs, which have so far been borne by the municipalities, must be borne by the manufacturers from mid-August 2005. Such a regulation is currently under review. In addition to the manufacturer's responsibility already enshrined in the 2002 Waste Management Act, this novelle complements the legal basis, in particular, with the following three points: in order to ensure the independent coordination body responsible for financing the collection infrastructure among the municipalities, the anchoring of an agreement on the financing of the collective infrastructure and public work in the Waste Management Act and an agreement to ensure that certain costs are paid to the municipalities. Overall, this appears to be a very reasonable and reasonable development of the 2002 Waste Management Act, and we may request the approval of all parties represented in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16166	Next item is the report by Mrs Pepper. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16184	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The amount of disposable packaging increases into the immeasurable. In recent years, a process has developed which, I believe, we must introduce by law. If not finally acted, it's only a matter of time until the pan-mortar bottle will be an exotic single piece in the supermarket shelf. That really can't be in our best interests. A report from the Chamber of Commerce is more than sobering. For the first time, mineral water decreased to 43.6 percent, while in 2000 it was still 65 percent. It has therefore decreased by more than 20 percent within three or four years. Unfortunately, this is proof that voluntary self-obligation does not work in practice. This does not reduce disposable rates. Each one of us should therefore go inside and think about how he or she is dealing with this problem and getting done. But it is also important, ladies and gentlemen, to have clearly visible markings. It must be immediately apparent whether to take a multi-way bottle or not. Especially for the elderly among us, who cannot read the small print, this is otherwise a huge problem. I was visiting a mineral water treatment plant some time ago. A bottle was pressed from a two-centimetre plastic piece and filled with mineral water. I already admit that this process is practical, clean and also hygienic. But in the sense of the prevention of waste, there must be a rethinking. But the enormous accumulation of plastic, as can be observed in your own family, is also terrifying until the garbage is collected. In Burgenland, we are also exemplary with this disposal. Nevertheless, the plastic waste mountain grows from year to year. Therefore, the economy is also obliged to take producers into account and to stop packing each piece with plastic. There must also be a rethinking. I believe that Mr Pröll, at the beginning of his term of office, has tried to find a solution. Unfortunately, the problem has worsened than improved. If there are no rules for businesses and businesses, it is of little use to appeal to the people, because they like to pay attention to the garbage mountain during their daily shopping. This is not so easy, even if you are good will. There would have to be more. Unfortunately, we cannot give our consent to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16227	The next item is Mrs Machne's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16245	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to Mr Oberhaidinger, who is unfortunately not here at the moment, I am convinced that this waste management legislation will very well improve, in particular as regards the delivery of electronic equipment in the municipal waste management centres, both for citizens and for the communities. At present, citizens are turning electronics scrap into already existing waste management centres. Some communities accept this free of charge, some of them require a fee, and thus the citizens of Austria are treated differently. This law will then, in my opinion, be the same for all citizens, and I would like to give an example. With us the electronic equipment is accepted free of charge at the corresponding charging points. We do so, too, so that the electronic scrap is not illegally disposed of, because of course it is also a problem to find the old devices everywhere. However, our waste management association is currently paying around €7 for the disposal of a television. This will be a thing of the past, as entrepreneurs are obliged to take back the equipment. Even though the costs may be relocated to the new equipment, I think that companies will find ways and means to be able to re-use parts of the old equipment, which will also benefit both. I think that we are right in adopting an EU directive, and we are also creating an additional service for citizens by, on the one hand, giving all Austrians their old equipment free of charge and, on the other hand, also for: municipalities will rather reduce their costs, as they will receive the disposal costs paid by the companies. In other words, the companies are subject to the requirement to collect them. Ladies and gentlemen! We are in favour of a clean environment and therefore we agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16284	The next item is the report by Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16303	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear colleague Machne, I am surprised that you, as a well-known local politician, are so well aware of this regulation. In this novel, we have a very dramatic approach to the question of who actually has to take over these costs. In this novel, we read that the municipalities are obliged to set up a collection centre for electrical and electronic appliances from households. That makes sense, of course, and there is nothing wrong with it. However, there is nothing in the novelle to read that manufacturers have the costs to pay for it. We have therefore prepared and submitted a motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Minister to point out in his Regulation on the Novel, or to bear in mind that manufacturers are indeed obliged to take over costs. Otherwise I can't imagine that, and I don't know how it should be that individual communities approach the manufacturers and then get the money for these costs. You say: 7 € belong to the past! But who's gonna fix this now? Who will now take over these costs? For the first time, this will be the municipalities. There's nothing in the law about that. Please show me the place where this is in the law! This is completely missing, and this was also recorded by the country's waste management group of the Upper Austrians as an absolute lack. The Minister is also asked to ensure that this is in any case in place in the implementing regulation. We have also pointed out that the opportunity has not been used again to actually involve the public at an early stage and effectively in the sense of the Public Participation Directive. We have pointed out that it is now only possible via the Internet, while organisations such as the Chamber of Commerce and the Presidential Conference are given their own exclusive presentation. We have also pointed out or pointed out that early and effective cooperation in the revision of plans and programmes is unlikely to be possible because all options are no longer open at all when the completed packages are already presented on the Internet. This is neither early nor effective! If you look at these many regulations and EU directives, you lose sight of the fact that other things have not actually been done at all, for example in the area that Mr Pepper has addressed, as is the case with the growing of the wastebergs as a whole. There is no effort to avoid waste, hardly any initiatives in the perspective of renewable raw materials in the material field, and there is still a waste of costs on the municipalities and on the public hand, while the profits of this rapid implementation cycle are privatized. In this increasingly rapid cycle of new goods manufacturing, buying and immediately discarding, will not be recycled or hardly any more recycled. If it comes to it, recycling is only more than downcycling, that is, it completely loses its value. That is why I would like to point out that there are very likely prospects for renewable raw materials in the material field, even in the use of long and short-lived plastics based on renewable raw materials, where we have a high demand for research, the development of new concepts, in support of a small research industry, where nothing is happening at all. I would therefore like to refer once again to our motion for a resolution which points out that the reduction in the cost burden on local authorities must be stopped. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16354	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16372	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Oberhaidinger, who is unfortunately no longer here, and Mr Pepper, I think it is very incomprehensible if you are committed to waste prevention and then vote against this revision of the Waste Management Act. It is completely unclear to me because this novel really regulates the first time the prevention of waste in electrical scrap and is really well regulated. It is the fact that electrical scrap has been increasing continuously for years and that waste disposal is not only a problem for our environment, but also a problem for human health. Considering that more than 80 000 tonnes of computers, kitchen appliances, washing machines, e.g. electronic and electrical appliances are happening in Austria each year and that the waste disposal of the equipment has been partially unsorted in household waste or that electrical appliances have even been stored on wild landfills in forests or on meadows, it can be said that it is very important and good that waste prevention with this new novelle is finally regulated uniformly. The degree of recovery of electro-resistance is relatively high. It is precisely through this law that companies and producers are forced to use the products again at last. This amendment therefore takes account of this fact. In the future, the private households and all Austrians will have to take these appliances back to the collection sites for free – on the one hand, the municipalities or on the other hand the dealers who, when a new purchase of a device is made, will have to accept the old appliances and, of course, the phones that are constantly spoken of and to which the Greens have also made a request. The fact that it is really free – Mr Oberhaidinger, who has noticed that he believes that the citizens will have to pay something in the future, even if he had read the law carefully – is quite clear from § 28a: free takeover at the gathering places in the communities. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: But who pays this?]] Producers will be responsible for disposal and for environmentally sound treatment. You must also undertake to pick up these devices from the collection sites. Of course, it is a very special challenge for the coordination bodies, which need to coordinate between the collection centres and between the collection and recovery systems of the producers, so that these devices are really picked up in good time and sufficiently often. It's also quite clear: It must be taken into account that no one feels over-privileged, because on the one hand, we see from the press reports of the economy that this is afraid that communities will generate a basket money, which must not be provided if no additional services are provided, on the other hand, it cannot, of course, be the case that the communities will receive additional and higher costs. [[Abg. Shopf: How is that ensured?]] The coordination bodies covered by a regulation are very likely to be given the necessary responsibility. Of course, the following must not be – and this is precisely what the coordinating bodies have to look at –: that the agreements made between the collective bodies of the municipalities and the collecting and collecting bodies of the producers take place at the expense of the citizens. No additional costs for citizens should be incurred. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore appeal to all of you, including you from the Social Democracy, that, in the sense of the environment, in the sense of a further prevention of waste, you agree to a prevention of large-scale wastes from electrical scrap.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16428	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16447	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, this EU directive is environmentally important, useful and, I think, of utmost importance to the Republic of Austria. However, we have found that a number of problems still exist in the implementation – and this is why we cannot give our approval to this government template today – if we look more closely at the government template. I would remind you of the discussion in committee. It is important to us once again to point out that it is really important to regulate very important points. For the first time, this is the obligation in the directive that manufacturers, but also – and this is always too little mentioned – the importers have the obligation to take over the entire disposal costs of various electrical and electronic equipment. Secondly – and this is also especially important for local authorities – the municipalities are obliged with this innovation to set up charging stations and to receive various equipment from the electrical and electronic industries. Furthermore, the waste owners are obliged to have these waste examined before transfer to the landfills. Waste must be registered. The waste collectors have this task, but also the waste-handlers. Ladies and gentlemen! In precise reading or analysis of the formulations, I have found that they are unfortunately very imprecise and dirty, especially as regards the point of taking over the costs. We fear that once again the communities and their citizens will be invited to the cash register. While it is clear that in the future citizens will have the opportunity to deliver electronic and electrical equipment free of charge at collection centres, there is a commitment that between manufacturers, It is important to ensure that agreements are made on this subject, which are expensive and relevant to the local authorities. We have no agreements to date, and there is no regulation for those cases where such agreements have not been made. There is a need – and we have mentioned this in the Committee – for clear rules. We fear that, if no regulations are made, the consumer will again say: the citizens will come to the financial kiss – and this is unacceptable for social democracy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also fear that the coordination bodies will be a lobby for manufacturers in the future. We have already pointed out this in the committee, and the government parties have not been able to disperse our fears. We also asked the Minister of the Committee whether there were signs of the establishment of these posts in the Chamber of Commerce, and the Minister of State was unable to dispel our fear. This is a policy that we cannot support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16514	The next item is the speech by Mr Hornek. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16532	Madam President. Federal Minister! Estimated Members' Collegiates! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The current innovation in waste management is not only a further adaptation to EU waste legislation, it also brings further improvements in waste prevention and the return of waste to the production cycle. The aim of the Waste Management Act or the main point of view of this novelle is sustainability, which means a conservation of resources. The aim is to limit the still growing generation of waste despite the environmentally sustainable use of waste. As stated in the last Environmental Control Report, more than 3.2 million tonnes of waste from households and similar facilities fell in 2001. A comparison to this: In 1999, it was almost 3.1 million tonnes. That proportion of total revenue, which had to be fed directly and untreated to a deposit, fell from 28.5 to 27.3 percent. The increase in the total volume of waste from households and similar facilities could therefore be addressed by disproportionate success in the separate collection and recovery of wastes. Although this is evidenced on the one hand by a great environmental awareness of the Austrians, on the other hand, it points to the constant increase in the volume of waste, and this indicates that there is still a need for action. The causes of the increased waste generated from households and similar facilities in the control period are a real population increase and a continuing increase in prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen! These data show that the increasing prosperity in the population, but also the very rapid progress of technology and production, leads to consumer behaviour, which also forces more frequent and faster adjustments to the legislation in the waste management sector. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Starting in 2007, it is generally prohibited to place on the market electrical and electronic equipment containing heavy metals such as cadmium, mercury and the like. As of August 2005, final consumers will be able to: At the same time, in the case of a collection site or in the case of a re-purchasing of a similar device, the dealer shall deliver his old equipment. From 2007 onwards, at least 70 to 80 percent of the average weight of a device has to be used for recovery. This innovation of the Waste Management Act is an important further step towards more sustainability.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16572	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16590	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has made it very clear to you what is, as it were, a serious problem with this problem of waste and how much the disposal of electronic waste has to be regulated and the recovery of it. I would just like to say, Mr President, that They owe us the answer to the question again: Who's financing the municipalities? However, they also owe us an answer to another question, including any reference to this matter, namely: How do we handle electronic scrap and waste in the form of mobile phones? You all see, now before Christmas the cell phone business is blooming. We already have at least ten million phones in Austria, a majority – two thirds – of which is no longer used, which is in the households. Our starting point is that you do not leave this material, this unused waste lying around, but you bring it back again. Yes, you can turn off your phones at the dealer's office, the only question is whether this care is really being exercised and the phones are actually returned. Often it happens that children play with it or that they may otherwise be thrown away. That is why our plea is – especially in view of the fact that consumers should be carefully treated with valuable articles – that they should be introduced as a deposit system, because in Austria, unlike Switzerland, in contrast to the Netherlands or also in contrast to Norway, we do not have a comprehensive system for the disposal of electronic waste. It is only now that we are slowly setting it up systematically, and the cost question has not yet been settled. Against this background, we definitely need sensible deposit systems, and especially in the mobile sector, it is very, very close to us that we will soon introduce a deposit system here. I think only of the fact that in 2001, for example, the Vienna municipal council had already pleaded for this. That is why I am still seeking to deal with our request in a positive form; at least in a next round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16627	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16646	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand the subject area which has been attracted several times, namely the mobile phones, in connection with the present amendment to the Waste Management Act. It's one thing. Since Mr Oberhaidinger pointed out that a request for a pledge system had been rejected, on the other hand, Mrs Moser had just referred to the mobile phones as a problem, and she asked the question: What could happen even if the phones were brought back? What happens to your cell phone? – The exact same thing that is regulated by this novel of the Waste Management Act: In accordance with this Waste Management Act, it is disposed of as an electronic scrap. You would have to ask the same question with other things. What happens to the nickel cadmium cells, with the batteries delivered by the dealer? What does the dealer do in the final effect? – I can question that anywhere. The fact is that all that has been presented on the part of social democracy as a reason for disapproval is regulated by this novel to the Waste Management Act. There is a coordination body, and there are, above all, also related regulations and regulations which ensure this. Dear ladies and gentlemen! With a volume of 80 000 tonnes of electrical and electronic scrap per year, I already believe that it should be put on an increased value that this scrap is not only fed to a meaningful disposal, to a waste which is not polluting the environment, but that what is usable – and that is a lot in these electronic devices – is also fed back to the production process in a recycling process. Now it is known that the possibility of recycling is still an expensive one, but I think that research there is on the right track and that, in fact, in a relatively short, manageable period, automation will also be so great that cutting into the individual components will be possible. This is, of course, more difficult than when assembly, when assembly new equipment, which is essentially set on individual types, which, of course, is not possible in the fullness of the models that are being collected. But sensor technology is widely developed, and I am very confident that this will soon be the case, and then, ladies and gentlemen, is the usable, reusable material that will ultimately be recycled. Considering the material composition of – I have called you the volume – 80 000 tons of electrical scrap – these are about 50 percent metal content, the plastics make up at least 30 percent, image tubes and other glass parts in about 10 percent, the rest are pollutants such as CFCs, i.e. fluorochlorocarbons, heavy metals, oils, PCBPs and fats to the extent of 9 percent, non-recyclable residual material 1 percent – one considers that increased value is to be attached to the fact that there is a recycling. Let me briefly address the cost question. I know communities that, for example, require 40 € for disposal costs for a screen, another community does not demand anything for it. Where 40 € is required or an amount of X is required, i.e. no overrun on the manufacturer, the risk is very high that these electronic devices with their share of pollutants they contain will be illegally stored somewhere and will be taxed according to the environment. In other words, the target is clear: Old equipment is intended to be fed into a recycling process in order to deal with these materials properly, on the other hand, to prevent the environmental pollution caused by a cost-effective disposal system and thus to avoid illegal disposal measures by the owners. It has already been described how this collection should work. I think that's the right step into the future. Who says that the phones were a problem, has not realized that a mobile phone is also an electronic device. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16703	The next item is the speech by Mr Steier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16721	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In my speech today, I would like to focus on the transposition of the directive on electrical and electronic equipment into national law. In today's society, electrical and electronic equipment can no longer be thought away from households and offices as a daily companion. In Austria, some 100 000 tons of electrical appliances, some 45 percent of which come from private households, fall each year. The speed of technical innovation is becoming increasingly rapid, so the quantities are constantly increasing. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the EU Electro-Electronic Equipment Directive is to reduce the amount of waste from this area and the load caused by this waste with substances of environmental and health concern. It also describes the manufacturer's responsibility very precisely. Each manufacturer shall be responsible for financing the disposal of waste caused by its products either individually or through participation in collective systems. The main features of this EU Directive are contained in this amendment to the Waste Management Act. First: Free delivery of equipment in shops and collection stations; second: Obligation on trade to withdraw an old device of the same type or function free of charge when repurchasing an electric device. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We do not agree with some parts of the implementation of the EU Electronic Equipment Directive, for example in the area of manufacturer responsibility, particularly in the field of collecting and recycling systems. The AWG now includes the obligation for the municipalities to set up charging stations for electrical and electronic equipment. In principle, the use of already functioning municipal waste disposal structures would have to be assessed positively, provided that clear rules were provided for who would bear the additional costs. However, it is to be feared that these new collection costs will remain with the municipalities, rather than with the manufacturers, and will be passed on to consumers in a logical manner in the form of garbage charges. For example, it is also questionable how the interface between communities and the economy should be equipped. As far as the second partner of shared responsibility is concerned, the objective should obviously go once again towards a single monopoly system in the economy, and here, as in the field of packaging, both industrial and municipal electrical appliances could be recorded. In view of the experience gained so far with such systems and the problems arising from them, we therefore consider this development to be counterproductive. In our view, the success of the future electro-alt device collection is offset by the following factors: Firstly, a clear separation of trade and budget management. Secondly, from a comprehensive and high-quality supply of collection sites. Thirdly, The interface between communities and business needs a satisfactory solution. Fourthly, producers must also have the opportunity to comply with their producer responsibility without system constraints; and Fifth, good public relations are needed so that people know what they expect, what the collection brings. Finally, a little bit on the manufacturer's responsibility. The EU Directive on Electrical and Electronic Equipment explicitly addresses the introduction of producer responsibility as a means of taking into account the recyclability of the products in production. In this respect, there is not much concrete to be found in this novel, which is unfortunate, because this provision could contribute greatly to the development of products in the direction of ecodesign. It would be desirable if Austria could set up initiatives in this area within the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16789	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16807	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house!- Oh, my God! I too should like to refer very briefly to the directive on electrical and electronic equipment and to the regulation under consideration. It is a matter of waste prevention, recycling or recycling, and yet, I would say, to a large extent, of raising awareness of the major environmental issues, especially for waste prevention et cetera. High house! In this law, in the relevant part of the law, in § 28a, first and foremost, it is about defining the obligation of manufacturers to set up collection sites, further about the participation in the collection and recycling system of historical devices and at the same time also about the assurances. Zum Secondly, the establishment of a co-ordination body, probably at the World Bank, and thirdly, the obligation of the municipalities to set up tax offices and to adopt the old equipment free of charge, as stated in the law. I am of course referring to the theme “Commune”. It is currently being handled differently. In future, there will be equal rights, at least from mid-2005 onwards, and certain costs will be replaced for the municipalities. That is what we are going to do. We will be very careful in the regulation to ensure that the costs are not reduced to the municipalities. It just can't be there. I am necessarily already on the next issue, on the financial compensation. In the future, we need to ensure that such basic services in the municipalities are secured in order to make it easier to achieve any cost of low-cost communities. In the next round, we must certainly put on the lever again very strongly. Unfortunately, we do not yet have a sufficient guarantee for the continuation of the weak communities. To the address of the country representatives, in particular to the city of Vienna: In the future, I believe that we Members should take the issue a little more closely into consideration in this pact. We simply must not let a SPÖ-Finanzstadtrat of the municipality of Vienna pull over the table! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16855	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I would ask the honourable Members to take their seats. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First we come to the vote on the draft... – I would ask for a little more attention, it is necessary a number of decisions! [[Unrest in the hall.]] First we come to the vote on AWG-Novelle 2004 and title and receipt in 759 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and with that the draft law has been adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and the draft law is accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 760 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to this request for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and that is why this request has been accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 761 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, and with that this request has been accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 762 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. This request was adopted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 763 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, and that is why this request has been accepted. 10. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (702 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, which regulates the financial compensation for the years 2005 to 2008 and makes other financial compensation provisions (FAG 2005) and the Objective Fund Act 2001, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Special Assistance Act, the Army Supply Act, the War Victim Supply Act 1957, the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spatial Institutions, the Tobacco Tax Act 1995 and the Federal Finance Act 2005 (731 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law amending the Family Compensation Act 1967 (732 d.a.) 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (701 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities on the continuation of stability-oriented budgetary policy (Austrian Stability Pact 2005) (733 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e16991	We now come to points 10 to 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are now going into the debate. Mr Matznetter was the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17042	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! – Feelings [[Continued Hello Rufe at the ÖVP.]] You're not talking to me? . We are dealing with a chapter in the late evening which was one of the most difficult of recent years, and at this point all the negotiators and also Mr. Grasser, were quite conceded that it was not easy to find a solution to the financial balance. On this occasion, however, we should not overlook the difficulties that the execution of this Republic's financial policy means for all parts, for all territorial authorities. I begin with those who are the weakest members, and these are the municipalities, the cities, and the churches. If President Mödlhammer is still at 51. Community Day in Linz has pointed out that the sum of the costs for the two stages of tax reform in the households of the municipalities – €95 million for the first stage, €333.6 million for the second stage – means €430 million annually in loss of financial resources, it is clear that the policy that you are carrying out in this House with the tax reform, especially those that enter into force on the first year of January, is extremely burdening municipalities. Why is this so problematic? – We don't have to think about it. In the narrower home of people a wealth of public-hand tasks is carried out by the municipalities. This ranges from schools to social assistance to road construction, from street lighting to waste disposal, which includes all the immediate living environment of people. This area suffers from a lack of financial resources. This has resulted in a very sharp decline in investment in this sector over the last four years, which means that the economy is also suffering. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a large number of small businesses, such as craft companies, for which the public authorities are a key contractor. These are the sufferers, if there is no means! Member of the European Parliament Auer has rightly pointed out to us in the Committee that the €100 million of additional funding for “his” community, although it is a small community, is just €26 000, but has been silent about the cost to his community of the two stages of the tax reform. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What kind of a car: Klaus or Jacob?]] Mr Auer, I can calculate this. We from SPÖ still want to give our approval to the actual financial compensation, but we will not give our consent to the second part – to this I come now – of the Stability Pact. I am also very clear to you why not: Finally, a federal budget policy has been approved, in which a budgetary process has been chosen at first in the wrong phase of the economy, which has deteriorated in the course of the economic cycle, through a recessive form, by a restrictive fiscal policy – and now that the economy is attracting, the money will be cut out in the form of group taxation; Millions of amounts are to be paid to large corporations, with countries to compensate for this with their surplus! – We cannot and do not want to agree to this! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The third part of this pact concerned the delivery of €300 million for the health package. In this area, we agree with the burden of the sick, we do not agree with self-maintenance and increases in contributions. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That was the idea of your colleagues!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have made better proposals: Increase the maximum contribution base and increase tobacco tax. We therefore only agree with the increase in tobacco tax and reject your non-social increases as a whole! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17135	The next item is Mr Dkfm. Dr. stupid. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17153	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the financial package we are discussing and deciding today – according to the large package of tax reform 2004/2005 – is undoubtedly the second most important financial package in this legislative period. This financial package contains three key elements: financial compensation in the narrow sense, which forms the basis for the financial flows between the local authorities, second, the stability pact of the local authorities, and thirdly the accompanying measures in the field of health reform. Undoubtedly a huge package – and I would like to admit, Minister of Finance: At the beginning of autumn, I was not convinced that this square of the circle will actually succeed. In fact, this represents a square of the circle, with the following key data: once the commitment of the local authorities to stability. Hold on: All local authorities are committed to the objective of stability policy – with the aim of achieving a zero deficit in 2008. The second corner of this square is that the whole thing falls into a time when we have to finance the largest tax reduction in the history of the Second Republic; a tax reduction of €3 billion. For the one who still thinks in Schilling: over 40 billion schilling. The third key point is that this package contains – although the Federal Government and the local authorities do not pay €3 billion of tax money, through tax reduction – that the countries still receive €112 million more, the municipalities by €100 million more and hospitals and health insurance total by €300 million more. The fourth key point is that structural reforms in health care are now being implemented urgently and for decades. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this package is very remarkable! Mr. Finanzminister, I really have to say: Congratulations on this square of the circle! I myself, as I have said, have a little doubt at the beginning of this autumn as to whether this whole package will come into being in this form. – It has come about! I am therefore all the more sorry for the process of social democracy, since there has now been something that has never happened in the history of the Second Republic: that your group here in the National Council does not support what has been done in the Second Republic. Their own negotiators, as officials of the countries and communities, have decided for themselves. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This fits the zigzag course! Typical!]] – A classic zigzag course of SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Gusenbauer versus Häupl!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] I very much hope that at some point your party, dear Hannes Bauer, will get back handshake quality and Pact fidelity. – Today she certainly does not have this Pact fidelity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also say a word about the accompanying health care measures. I'll bet you: In health, too, the principle of saving applies. But in health care does not mean saving, saving at the expense of public health, but means more efficient use of resources! Let me give you an example from my Waldviertel constituency. In financial terms, it is a huge difference whether you have three hospitals or a hospital with three locations in a region. Whether you have your own hospital in Allensteig, Eggenburg and Horn, or a forest district clinic with locations in Horn, Eggenburg and Allensteig, is a difference, because the latter is called the following: the whole back office area is only once. There is only one medical director, only one head of the care service, there is only one commercial head. I believe that saving in health care means: Save with simultaneous quality assurance for the patient! These are examples, as I mean, where you can say: It is good that this package includes an increase of €300 million in health care resources to the same extent as expenditure savings. This is possible; that is what all experts say. It is possible to reduce costs while ensuring quality at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen! One of these financial measures contained in this package is the increase in tobacco tax. I think they're probably all here in this hall. I can make a motion for a resolution from all four parties and I am pleased that this all-party consensus was possible. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Something that the Minister of Finance has already begun. I am pleased that all four parties believe that accompanying measures must be taken in this regard. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17283	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17335	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17353	Madam President. Federal Minister! My previous speaker stupidly said that the “quadrature of the circle” was successful, symbolically natural. Colleagues, of course, also know – with or without PISA knowledge – that this is mathematically impossible. The same is true of us with the financial compensation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't know why this statement is applauded, but please! – I know; at least this is very animated at this time. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: They were your own people!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Considerable is that such an important matter is treated here relatively late in the evening, but I wanted to return to this comparison, to the “quadrature of the circle”. In fact, it is not possible to have everything at once in this giant boat financial compensation. I agree with this and add that it is likely that parliamentarians will be able to provide even more support for the federal line in a negotiating position to the countries. This statement is primarily addressed to the ÖVP, because the interrelationships are obviously mixed with it. Then, when it comes to country interests, you will suddenly see this again party-politically – and the federal line of the ÖVP is then very often "averted", if at all still recognizable. On the other hand, the Federal Minister for Finance – we have convinced ourselves – had a clear negotiating position, he has also given it to us, but we – we have already discussed it in committee – believe that financial compensatory negotiations should be different at least in the future, as in this way, as it is now, the National Council is a purely ratification body. – Of course, you can also want to, but that's not the way it is supposed to be. This is a draft law, the financial compensation law, which binds all those involved for four years. In that respect, it would be worth an attempt to do so differently. I only note that the Federal Minister for Finance represents positions in which the Greens are probably closer to him than the ÖVP, and I am sorry that we can never have a clear debate in the right order, namely: What is now all the central public task – I know, it's not that easy, we're not doing it so easily – what should the countries get, what in particular the municipalities – which really are the worst in my view – and what kind of governance does the federal government have here of course? And of course he should retain competence in these many questions! – So much only as a marginal remark to the parallel negotiations in the Austrian Convention. – Here I simply miss a clear and straightforward approach. Anyway, we regret that every four years. In the meantime, I am already participating in this for the second time – in the truest sense of the word – and I note that there have been some improvements there or there, even from our point of view, that the overall financial compensation remains a convoluted one, which is not only opaque and opaque – that is another coffee – but also in the matter to a non-insignificant part in the wrong direction from our point of view, especially with the financial compensation provisions in the wider sense, that is, where the aim grant law is concerned, where the health financing negotiations and their results were concerned. And that's why we have a few reservations here – that won't surprise you – yet. I should just like to take a few points of view and highlight one more, namely those relating to the tobacco tax mentioned, because I have already expressed my concern that we do not appreciate enough caution here, Federal Minister for Finance. We agree with this point, the increase in tobacco tax, and I would also like to stress that. Here, €90 million of additional revenue is simply assumed, and the additional revenue is defined in such a way that a comparison period of 2004 is essentially compared to that of 2005 and the additional revenue thus calculated is then distributed directly. It can happen to us, of course, because of the problem of increasing tobacco smuggling, that the comparison sizes are collapsing here, only that the price effect is collected by the quantity effect and that we may not have these €90 million at all. As I hear it, there is now another amendment – I do not know if it has already been introduced, right, no – which divides the 90 million €, when they are at the end, again differently than originally planned. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: (a document in height) No!]] Now I want to do more – I find that interesting! – €60 million directly for the corresponding health care funds and €30 million for something else, including something useful, we hope. I just don't know exactly how this is meant, because we haven't been officially presented here yet. I am just saying – and we say this more often in financial laws – that when the germs are decided, it may be laid down that the figures do not hold at the end. This time I am saying it in time; with the increase in the investment premium, because we have considered it to be the right thing to do, we have held back even more and, unfortunately, have kept it right. Two positive things for the financial compensation: The fact that there is now a single key to the division of the Community's federal levies should not be allowed to fall under the table. That's something, too, that had to be negotiated. That's what many wanted, and we wanted it too – so okay. Other points are probably not so easy to carry out. Everyone is always talking about task orientation, so are we; we have been talking about it more often now. We also see that this is not so easy to implement, but at the moment there is no attempt at all in this direction, no one at all! At first, you try to simplify this key system somewhere, and at the end – unfortunately this is the result in this case – it will become even more complicated. Next point: the famous revenue responsibility. Actually, the slogans always say: Merge tasks, expenditure, revenue responsibility! – We find this in principle in all the party programmes dealing with this issue, only, again here – this was said above all in the direction of the countries; in this case I turn to the ÖVP –: It is precisely the opposite in the Convention! What do the country representatives represent primarily with ÖVP party discolouration? – That you don’t want to take on a jota of this responsibility – no, nothing and nowhere! I also do not say that we can consider all taxes as eligible for them, because there are certain competitive phenomena to be reduced down here and all of this more – that's right. But that one does not make the effort at all to find out which tax types or tax types might be in question, I think this is more than disappointing. And you just have to ask yourself what the corresponding programmatic statements are worth. – Strike it down. Finally, I come to a few positions of financial compensation in the wider sense. In particular, there is the objective grant law, the promotion of housing, but also other things where financial flows between countries, communities and above all the federal government are on the way, because we, as a federal government, are the payers. For the so-called housing development. After all, this law makes the honest start, to rebaptize it once and to describe as what it is now: a promotion for housing; then the environment is mentioned – but I also tell you: these agreed Kyoto targets, which are in there, are probably given by the law, but there is no instrument, which will continue to follow the country accordingly – and the best is to conclude as always: Infrastructure. After God, thank you now at least admit that until now, in my opinion, it is useful – some say “unnecessary”, but let us say “unapplicable”, because the law wanted to allow it so far – that funds from this area for road construction, bridge construction and similar things have been spent more. In this context, I should like to return to the Styria which has already been mentioned many times. There, housing aids are used for golf course constructions, namely massive subsidies. I really can't understand this, especially in the light of the background that housing development has already been thought of as – let's keep in mind in your Jargon – medium-sized funding, at least originally for lower income groups. If we find today that many distribution studies show that the top three of income benefits most from housing development, then we can already question the instrument – and I also use the SPÖ – whether it does not need another construction. And if there is no majority here in the house, we are not afraid to say that this is too high in volume, because it passes all the purposes that are useful. It no longer controls social, as was desired – I am not saying “truth-proof” now, this term is unfortunately proven. I also say that the ecological control is in principle missing – you may talk about it, that will not surprise us. In the end, it remains a latte of federal states – it is not just the Styria – that use this on start. And you, and I also criticise you, Federal Minister, in advance: 1.8 billion €! – So say They then never, the Greens make no suggestions on how something could be better used or possibly even saved. [[Abg. Grill:... climate action!]] The same applies to funds in the urban water sector, and the same applies to other areas of financing. We will still have a lot of opportunity to discuss this further. For this reason... – Yes, that was the truth, and that just hurts, especially for the Styria. [[Abg. Grill: Always nice to say the truth!]] [[Abg. Grill: No! Nice to tell you the truth!]] And for this reason, because these obligations are also lacking in the relevant Article 15a agreements, we unfortunately cannot agree to the Stability Pact either, although we understand that any agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities at the financial level will need a pact; that must be negotiated by every government – completely right. But the question is, which is This is the content of the report and how the countries are really taken into account. In our view, this is not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17486	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. Its voluntary time limit is 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17504	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out by my previous speaker that the present financial compensation law is the result of weeks of discussions with all those involved in this law – the federal government, the countries, the cities and the municipalities. As far as the ratification that you have criticized, Mr Kogler, I believe that European directives are also being ratified in our Parliament without long discussions. So, I think, it is a very useful and good way to let all those who are directly involved negotiate, and the result we have is in the sum of one to which we can quite stand. The financial mass of approximately € 270 billion, which is being moved – of which about 30 billion alone in the hospital area – shows what responsibility the negotiators were aware of, and I believe that this new allocation has changed course in the future allocation of the entire financial mass. One thing has to be clear to everyone: such radical shifts cannot take place from today to tomorrow. In the end, it has not been proposed by the Federal Government, but also by the representatives of the local authorities who themselves do not agree that we will choose a different distribution key from today to tomorrow. Thus, this Financial Balance Act is the result of a very responsible discussion of all interested parties and the introduction into a significant change in the entire distribution of the future financial mass. And I think it is a huge success, especially for the rural regions, when we see the result that about €100 million more are available annually for the countries and additional €100 million also for the municipalities, especially for the financially weak communities – where one also has to distinguish between small communities and weak communities, which is often not properly represented in the public debate: For example, a small community is Lech as a tourist town, but it is not necessarily a weak municipality. That is to say, the truth lies in the differentiation, and I believe that all negotiators have to praise what has finally been achieved – including the transformation and payment of national teachers at national level: I think this is a very positive step, that in the future those who are also responsible for the payment will also have the responsibility. This gives room for design, which also gives more influence to structural reforms. Also the annual housing promotion of €1.78 billion is a real signal to ensure the stability of the countries in terms of investments in housing. Even though it is repeatedly called on by Members of this House to support the financial compensatory negotiations with the closures of postal offices, I believe that this cannot be linked because we should also see that these two are completely different areas, which are primarily linked to the fact that none of us have a pleasure when post offices are closed when thinning is done in rural areas. And I think that with this FAG we are making a contribution to ensuring that this thinning of rural areas is stopped. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, as far as the increase in health care is concerned, I believe that a very moderate compromise has been made to ensure that future health investments are made. The fact that these investments must also be earned is clear as in any economic enterprise. These €300 million, which the hospitals will have more available in the future, are a real and important contribution to the savings effects that can be achieved in the future. In total, this FAG is a good basis for internal Austrian stability and, above all, for the continuation of a forward-looking growth policy in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17569	The next item is the report by Mr Mag. Grasser. – Mr Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17587	Madam President. Dear colleague of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the first place, I should like to emphasise – and all those views expressed in the Committee's debate – that these financial compensatory negotiations were particularly difficult negotiations. I think it was really very difficult to negotiate, because, if you compare, in 2000, when we negotiated the financial balance, which is still in force now, 2001 to the end of 2004, the starting position was that we said we have to fix the budget, we have to consolidate the budget, we have to try to achieve a balanced budget across the state. In other words, it was said to save, it was the expenditure reduction. Now we have tried over four years – the federal government, the countries, the cities and municipalities – to slow down expenditure dynamics, reduce expenditure. If you look at the federal expenditure ratio, you can see that the expenditure ratio has also been very clearly reduced. This means, of course, that after four years of saving and reducing expenditure, there are dynamic categories of expenditure, such as health care, care and pension. Secondly, as it has pointed out, Günter stupidly, as the Federal Government said: We need, at a time when the economy has turned, where the upturn has begun, a clear signal of relief and stronger purchasing power both as regards workers and as far as pensioners are concerned, and as far as the economy is concerned, thus €3 billion of relief. This is of course good for taxpayers, good for the economy, but it says, of course, that the local authorities came under pressure from both sides at the end of the day: On the one hand, we reduce revenue – that is, less revenue for local authorities – and on the other hand, there are dynamic categories of expenditure. And this has led to the fact that it was obviously very, very difficult to conduct these financial compensatory negotiations. That's why we also needed more than ten rounds: We officially started in July – of course we had many preliminary talks – and then we needed to conclude these negotiations until November. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the outcome of these financial compensatory negotiations can be seen. We have made it clear from the outset that it is a matter of negotiating an overall package, because it was simply necessary to say objectively: We have three parts that are interrelated, namely, the financial compensation in the narrower sense, i.e. the distribution of the entire financial mass of the Republic, all taxes and taxes, the second the Stability Pact as Article 15a, where stability orientation is general government, all the local authorities in their budgetary management behind it, and thirdly, the Minister of Health is also present today, the health care package and the Article 15a agreement on the financing of hospitals and health systems financed with it. That is, it was clear and there was consensus from the beginning that we are negotiating an overall package consisting of these three essential elements, and I think one can really say: A real success has been achieved in these negotiations! This success means that, first of all, we have achieved a consensus on a principle issue that should not be underestimated, ladies and gentlemen – Seppi Bucher has expressed it: the distribution of € 270 billion over four years – a consensus that goes beyond the party borders. This means that the distribution of revenue – the total revenue of the Republic – is beyond dispute over four years, which is something that is quite clear of a basic consensus in the whole, very essential questions, which Austria has also awarded for a long time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: This result also means that we have continued to be familiar with solid state finances, namely all local authorities, that the countries, the cities, the municipalities and the federal government have said jointly: We are committed to pursuing a stability-oriented financial policy, so that the population can also be given security, largely financed health systems – both health institutions and social insurance – and thus give a very important signal of stability to the population. – This has also been achieved with this financial compensation. I would therefore like to thank the financial compensation partners, the national leaders, the financial partners, especially the core team we have negotiated with: Sepp Rieder for the head office of Vienna, Sepp Pühringer für Oberösterreich, Herbert Sausgruber für Vorarlberg, Karl Pfeifenberger für Kärnten, der Stadtbund und dem Gemeindebund, because I believe that this was really over the political boundaries, on the state welfare, and the result speaks for this stateganze. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In short, the results reflect in detail: I think it really is a great success if we have managed to achieve this objective of a stability-oriented fiscal policy, a fiscal policy that we said in 2000: We want to turn to state finances, we want to come to state-of-the-art households!, and where we have been saying for the first time in Austria for 30 years: We're setting this target down! At the time, all the local authorities, across the party borders, also said that we are trying to achieve a zero deficit and a balanced budget. And all the local authorities, with the Stability Pact, which was jointly negotiated and concluded at that time, achieved this result with a surplus for the first time in 2001, almost with a balanced budget in 2002. That's exactly what I'm saying. Ladies and gentlemen, have been successful now! Many have meant that this is not possible, but we have also managed to negotiate a Stability Pact with the countries, with the cities and communities, which is a continuation of the 2001 Stability Pact. Our aim is to restore a zero deficit in 2008 to a balanced budget. I believe that it is important that, beyond the Party-political debate, all the local authorities, including the three political groups – unfortunately the Greens are not here yet, but I hope that this back will come once again – say, we are making a financial policy that is based on generation-righteousness. This will also lead to a balanced budget in 2008. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, health care. We – Maria Rauch-Kallat, Alfred Finz, my person – have tried to negotiate a package for the hospitals in good work sharing with the countries, with the cities and municipalities, in order to ensure their disbursement, but also, of course, the important health insurance schemes to include social insurance in this package. I believe that everyone who followed the debates afterwards and around this health package has recognized that it has not made anyone easy on this issue. It was extremely important not only to give the signal that revenue increases are being made and therefore the easy way, but also to say that every euro that is demanded on the one hand of additional revenue should also be accompanied by expenditure reductions; on the other hand, 1 € more revenue is also 1 € less expenditure. In the case of the package that Maria Rauch-Kallat has negotiated, I think a very substantial package of expenditure reductions actually came out. The 15a agreement, prepared and presented by the Ministry of Health, has also reached unanimity in the Committee. I therefore believe that this is an essential success in terms of structural measures. I am also convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that we have found a very important way on the revenue side. Since here the impression of being awakened was tried to self-hold, so don't go, that wouldn't be quite social: Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say the following: Before I got here, I still had a phone call with the Magistrate's office in Vienna. I know things are not always easily comparable. But if you pay in Vienna for a kindergarten place in the month 260 € as a self-maintainment, then I have to tell you that this package is really a package of attention that ensures the funding of social security and hospitals to a large extent so that a good investment in the health of the patients and thus also a package that you should be able to account for together. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] I believe that important questions have been raised by Maria Rauch-Kallat. I would like to address just a few points that we have also discussed in the Committee, which one sees as so important that we – and that is why this structural package is so important that we also address these issues – already have a lot of very important open questions and problems to address in the hospital sector. Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of data from the main association, I can give some examples here. In 2003, we had a bed load of 76.6 percent in Austria. In other words, Every fourth hospital bed is currently empty. If one at the same time knows that waiting times in the orthopaedic area for hip surgery of six to nine months exist, this shows that there is clearly a need for significant improvements in the organization. Since these debates are also being held by all of us in the countries, and one knows at the same time how difficult it is to change the hospitals, I think we are talking about quality at the end of the day. 17 499 operations have been carried out in the Wirbel/Rückenmark operating group last year. In 32 hospitals, the frequency was less than ten operations per year, 14 of which had only one operation in this group of spinal cords per year. I'm sure none of us want to sit in one of these hospitals, because that's a question of quality. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No! You got it wrong!]] I think it makes sense to discuss priorities here and say that the quality and health of our patients are our top priority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The last example I would like to give you in the health field. I think there is probably one-bright consensus that we want the money used to come to the patients that it actually serves health. We have been able to select the personnel costs, i.e. only the administrative share that was used by the hospitals per patient in 2002. That was €150.22 per patient in purely administrative costs. On the other hand, in 2003, we had administrative costs per insured person of about €60 – i.e. €60 on the one hand, €150 – on the other hand – and one simply has to say clearly, it is a common task that we have achieved what we have achieved in the health field in reducing the administrative costs – and there is also room for manoeuvre – even with hospitals, because it is important that the money is used efficiently and that the money actually comes to the patients. Ladies and gentlemen! Third example, where we have made a structural change in the financial balance: the national teachers. This is a topic that is of course omnipresent with the PISA study. I believe that we have also addressed the problems that we see and which the financial compensatory partners have also seen. The subject of special educational funding, particularly in the conurbation centres, has been identified. The subject of smaller schools, particularly in rural areas, was also discussed. We have, in order to give a signal here, said from the federal side, we want to maintain these structures, we want to address the special educational need for support. The Federal Government therefore makes available €12 million annually, €2005, 2006 and – after an evaluation – also in 2007 and 2008. Fourth example: The graded population key has already been addressed. Ladies and gentlemen! With Alfred Finz, with the other financial compensatory partners, especially with Jakob Auer and Fritz Grillitsch, and with others who were very committed here, we have also understood the signal of the House, the social democracy, that we want to be said, and it is a concern for us to strengthen the small communities in their financial strength accordingly. Mr Kogler said: We have presented a basic model here, which would have been much stronger for the small communities, which would have taken account of the weak communities. I think, however, that a financial compensation and thus a consensus between countries, the Federal Government, the Federal Government and the Federal Government must always be a compromise and that there is already a substantial progress here by bringing about a change in the classified population key, something that has not been done for decades. Ladies and gentlemen, you all know the discussion of how it is held in the communities that it is simply unfair if the citizen in the municipality A is treated financially differently from the citizen in the municipality B. We manage to change something in the lowest level, in the fourth stage of the graded population key. I have brought you three examples where you can see that this also has a significant impact, across the different local authorities: A Statutory City, for example Wiener Neustadt: 37 626 inhabitants experience a substantial strengthening of their financial strength of €4 million through the consensus we have negotiated. Small town, Bartholomäberg in Vorarlberg: 2 232 inhabitants experience a strengthening of their financial power of € 62 000. An even smaller community, Zell in Carinthia: 703 inhabitants experience a strengthening of their financial strength of €16 000. I believe that there has already been a positive change here on all sides. We have strengthened the financial weaknesses. I say: We would have liked – and have proposed such a model – to put the financial weaknesses and the small ones even more in the foreground, but there was no consensus on this with the other partners. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You have to reduce the tax loss!]] In the compromise way, I think, a good start to a change in the graded population key has been achieved here. I thank all those who are sitting at the table, and say for the federal government, I think it is good that we have also made it possible with 100 million €, which we provide in addition, that there is this entry into a change in the graded population key and thus a more for small financial weak communities. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] Next point I would like to address. We have also given €100 million more to countries so that strengthening their financial strength can compensate for this reduction in revenue in the light of the tax reform. We have already made a significant progress in terms of the climate in terms of the atmosphere of financial compensation, namely, with this single key over all the Community federal levies. They remember that there have been several accusations, especially those of the countries which have said that they increase the taxes that bring income to the Federation, and you lower those taxes which cost us something too. We have now managed to put a key over almost all the Community federal taxes. This is a question of fairness and the way in which financial compensation partners deal with each other. And that is a question of transparency and administrative simplification. That is why I think this is also an essential success. Last point. We have undertaken with Alfred Finz and with the financial compensation partners that we want to start the next stage of the administrative reform. We also discussed in the committee where we still see potential for efficiency. We have already made a round with the countries, cities and communities in the last legislative period. So next year we will start to open this next round of administrative reform, because I believe it is the right of the people to reduce the cost of bureaucracy and administration and thus save tax money where it is not used particularly efficiently. This will be the goal of our new administrative reform round. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: I know, of course, that with the financial compensation, with the Stability Pact, the funding of hospitals is not everything is solved. This cannot be done with such a large package, with which one distributes € 270 billion. I therefore also know, of course, that there are arguments against it. Mr Kogler asked the Committee: Is it important to have the greens' consent? I said: We would, of course, put emphasis on the fact that the Greens too agree. I regret, on the one hand, that it was obviously not possible for you to give this package your consent, on the other hand, if you say it openly, I believe you can say that where you are not responsible, you can of course be more easily opposed. If you were more involved in the table in government, whether in the countries, cities or communities, I believe that you would probably have given your consent to such a total result, in accordance with the law of the matter and the law of the state. As far as social democracy is concerned, I would like to thank her, on the one hand, for the approval of the financial compensation, because I do not regard it as a matter of course. When I look back over the past few years, how strongly we have criticized our financial policy, how strongly we have criticized our budgetary policy, that we have not left a good word on this financial policy, and now, in a fundamental question, in a main work of financial policy, namely, in the distribution of the total revenue and expenditure of the Republic, € 270 billion over four years, we agree, then this is quite a signal that there is a fundamental responsibility, which I also want to acknowledge, for which I would like to thank, however, wherever one sees, it is obvious that social democracy is already attesting, on such important issues of the Federal Government and of Finance Policy, that a good path has been taken here for Austria in the sense of the state welfare and the state interest. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] On the other hand, I would also like to put this in this light – Günter stupidly said it –: Zickzack. That is something I regret and for which I am equally grateful. I do not fully understand the fact that you are going to go a way to balance the financial situation, but you say no to the Stability Pact and no to the health package. Ladies and gentlemen! It's very clear that this is a whole package. This is similar to when the right hand signs a contract and the left says: No, don't do it! We are therefore breaking up an overall package in its approval and rejection, with the impression that it was absolutely essential to try and present something where we can then say that we cannot be for the whole. Or they say: The Federal Government cannot be allowed to succeed in this way, and we must find something against which we can vote. Just to be honest, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, if you let this happen to you yourself: In 2001 you agreed to the Stability Pact. The current Stability Pact is nothing but the continuation of the 2001 Stability Pact. But now you say no. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Slightly tightened!]] – Not slightly tightened, even weakened. Previously we had 0.75% surplus, now we have 0.6, and then we reach pretty slowly 0.75%. You write in your economic programme, if it is valid, in principle a yes to a balanced budget. Our Stability Pact says exactly that, namely balanced 2008 budget, and you still say no to that. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What did you calculate?]] I therefore believe that if one is interested in the issue of materiality, it must be said: This overall package – financial compensation, stability pact and health care funding – is not the best thing to do as an individual, but it is the best thing to achieve across the party borders with all the local authorities – with the countries, cities and municipalities. It has essential structural elements, it stands for stability-oriented state finances, it stands for largely funded health systems. There is thus a security and stability and it is shown that, in the sense of the state gap, one could again go a good way of compromise and consensus with all the partners in the financial balance. Thanks again to all the partners, thank you for the approval of this package and the acceptance of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17755	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17773	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In all the relevant facts, although it is hardly possible in three minutes to answer all of this: The Federal Minister has said that comparisons are always problematic. I give him perfect justice in the kindergarten comparison as far as Vienna is concerned. This comparison was not only problematic, but simply wrong in the comparative matter, because the kindergarten contribution in Vienna is dependent on income and therefore differs considerably from your self-retaining, which all meet to the same extent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Ours are always income dependent!]] - That's different. I believe that the Stability Pact – which you mentioned in detail; it is true that we do not agree with this – in combination with, for example, the tax reform, or in combination with, the 2005 budget, and also with the plans for the 2006 budget that have been announced so far, makes one manifest and quite clear, namely the open commitment of the Federal Government to a client policy at the expense of others – in this case at the expense of the countries and the municipalities. If we put this in correlation with the stability contribution of the countries between 0.6 and 0.75 percent of the gross domestic product and the current economic policy of the Federal Government, this will lead to a further decline, in particular in the area of public investment, which in the end is almost borne by the countries and communities, in particular by Vienna. In this respect, we have already reached a low of around 50 percent of the average of the European Union. This means that this neoliberal downward spiral will continue once again. This is also a reason why we cannot join the Stability Pact in this form. However, where we can join – that has already been mentioned – this is the financial compensation. Now only on a central point of this financial compensation – it has already been addressed by Mr Kogler – the promotion of housing. It is a merit of the countries that the level of housing support has been set at €1.8 billion, after, in the run-up to the Ministry of Finance in particular, this housing promotion has been strongly challenged, and I would like to admit that this is, of course, part of the “game” of the financial compensation. However, it is often ignored that this housing promotion is not only an essential instrument of social policy, even if social security must be evaluated over and over again – I would like to admit – but that without the promotion of housing the market would inevitably lead to under-supply and inevitably to high rents – that is to say, a classical market failure in a maritime property, namely the estate. In addition, however, the promotion of housing is also an essential instrument of governance, such as integration policy, economic policy, spatial planning and, in particular, environmental policy. Thus we are at the point of thermal rehabilitation, for which a purpose was envisaged, but – Mr Kogler has already mentioned it – without a sanctions mechanism, that is, in reality without teeth. This is not a criticism of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance, but an appeal to the countries, namely in the next step – the first step we have already taken with the fixed amount – really to achieve a purpose of total housing support for housing, the housing environment and the renovation. I think that is absolutely necessary. And I would like to get away from the wicked title of this article, which Mr Kogler has already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17816	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17834	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am forwarding that the Minister for Finance was truly willing to provide a financial compensation, in which more money was available. legal status for the weak communities. I would like to thank his officials, who had produced a model in an excellent way, which would have had a little more justice for the less-favoured communities in particular. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] According to this model, 455 municipalities in Upper Austria had had an advantage 433 and 22 municipalities had to take a loss. And, ladies and gentlemen, it's interesting: This supposed loss would have amounted to about 30 € to 40 €. It would therefore not have broken out the wealth for the winning communities, if I were to say so, and for the losers' communities – and always expected, if the Minister of State had not provided the €100 million at the time – even if poverty had not been included. I'll give you a little example: Inside there is colleague Prince from the municipality of St. Nikola. He is the mayor who has recently been well represented in the “Hohes Haus” mission with his excellent asylum accommodation in a very good report, as I mean. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Col. Prinz has its own tax force of € 52 per head in St. Nikola. The city of Linz has its own steering force of 580 € per head. Now this city of Linz might have lost €30, and colleague Prince might have won €40. Then the difference between the two municipalities would not have been the eleven-fold own steering force, but only the ten-fold. This was obviously an impossible thing for certain financial compensatory negotiators. – So much for justice. Now we want to think, by means of the financial compensation, as this law is called, that there would be real compensation, and it would therefore be a bit more useful for this weak community from its share of income. Don't do that! In spite of this, the proportions of income are almost twice the sum per capita in turn of the large community compared to the small, financially weak. Now we all know that larger communities or cities have quite different tasks to perform, that is undisputed, but if the differences are so blatantly fixed or rewritten, I dare doubt. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore say quite openly: I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, but regret that the other negotiators were not prepared to address these aspects more clearly. Therefore, I urgently ask for one: Firstly, and I really demand that Parliament be involved in the negotiations much earlier in the future. It can't be that more than € 270 billion will be decided and we'll nod with our head without influence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There is nothing to help us if, four years ago, the financial compensation was negotiated in the Committee on Budgets, this time in the Committee on Finance, so to speak, incense or hot coals are being imposed, but we have no influence. I call for Parliament to be strongly involved in such an important and comprehensive decision in the future and to be able to exert decisive influence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I also say quite openly: I would also like § 21 to be changed so that the principle of casting can be removed. Perhaps we have something to do ourselves. I invite all the political groups: Let's get together next year and think about what model there is. It could be fairer, more decisive and more forward-looking than those who have negotiated the parish and the city alliances. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] You know, rural areas are very often conjured – and for the weak communities, the changes are partly dramatic – where there is no shopping, no event, no gas station and no mail and where many other areas are no longer available. If, in these communities, there is no need to finance such an institution, with all the efforts to do so, it is mostly supported by the federal state itself, but in the larger cities, the other candidates, as it were, put their hands in the hands, without costing the municipalities, while the small, financially weak communities themselves have to deal with it. There can't be any of that in the long run! Nevertheless, Minister of State: It is a financial compensation which is still acceptable from the points of view of budgetary security and the need to keep the entire stability programme in order. I would like to thank you for your willingness to provide a little better for the smaller communities.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17930	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e17949	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Bundesfinanzminister! High house! I would like to join directly with Mr Auer, whose speech was very differentiated and very critical. It is clear to me, of course, that the distribution of €63 billion between the federal, state and local authorities is not a simple matter, and it is also easier to talk about large packages. There are also large sums. Even if Advent is, not in every package is what everyone wants. So you can be disappointed with so many people when you open it. In view of the fact that the financial compensatory negotiations are about a long-term well-kept practice, I do not seem to be 100% true. They know they are negotiations, and there are compromises, there are necessary ropes of different quality, and it results from the saying “one hand washes the other” not always cleanliness as I wish them. You have to hold that! Also, the frequently quoted and stressed required handshake quality does not depend on how much I press someone's hand, but on what is exchanged there. There we should, I think, already observe a bit of almost criminalistic what the trade was. I am simply annoyed when such important, major reform projects as the health reform – and there is also little money – are linked exclusively and intensively and not always to the benefit of the reform with the financial compensation negotiations. What is the result? Are there two winners? Is there just one winner? Or are the compromises such that many times smoke-callate has lost and many countries too? The Federation does not, it always loses in these negotiations, especially in the health sector. But we do not get to the heart of the matter when law matrices come from a wide range of topics in such a way that they are scarcely legible and barely manageable either. I would like to say a little bit about the health reform. Those who really do not benefit directly are the patients, because the good part of these €300 million, which is to be won in the financial compensation and of which half the countries and communities benefit, is financed by patients, almost 70 percent, if I have done so properly. That's quite a lot of money. If you look very briefly into the preamble of the 15a agreements, you can read something quite funny there. It may be an editorial error. It says – I quote –: High-quality medical care for all citizens is a priority objective of this package. “Citizen independent” is a word! To bring ‘citizen-independent’ health services to women and men, I really find a ‘stressing’, new vision of sustainable health policy! But now the parliamentarians are coming very strongly into force. If they are put before the final facts of this pact, what should they do? It is either a double-binding situation or, if you want to hear it, a double mill. Your party colleagues said yes or no. How do the other party colleagues behave here now? We got it pre-excerted. I think that's unfair, because what really remains away? – It is parliamentarianism, which no longer has much to say, except to make a friendly servant and say: Thank you, that's it! Without me now thinking a lot about being a Member – you don't have to think about it too much – I don't think it's good to think about it, and I ask you to think about it. What Karl-Heinz Grasser as the Federal Minister of Health says, that is quite true, however, not new at all, and I would like to have an explanation of how good this pact really is if the competence of the countries – and these are the hospitals – is now cross-subsidized by the federal government. The countries have the competence on this area and also the competence to take responsibility for these deficits, and they are now getting money at the same time, where it means that it has to be saved elsewhere. I do not assume that you will take this away from the countries, but someone else, and there you do not need much imagination to know who that will be. This may then be the real communities that are likely to be too short in this game. If patients are burdened with €210 million and are fed up with the health reform, then a few things get out of the row, and I wonder – because they are all affected – why not consider the idea of further opening the maximum contribution limit to the top, because only the... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] That's not it! That's a very simple question. Ten percent of the population would be affected, the richest ten percent, whose income contributions over €3 450 ultimately de facto percentage decrease in wages and salaries. There are a lot of things to get out and put something into the health system without, so to speak, punishing the sick again. Unfortunately, I consider the Federal Minister for Smoking to be one of the losers – I remain in the plural – of the negotiations, because she has only been able to win little, and this has remained relatively vague and unbinding. Some of the objectives of the health reform, which were previously the subject of discussions with us and others, are increasingly watered down in the debate or almost lost sight of be. I'm sorry. Therefore, we will not agree, because these contributions of € 300 million do not permanently reorganise the cash registers, do not strengthen them, or do not produce any strengthening of the necessary federal competences, and also what we wanted to eliminate – we said about the uniformization of the funding heads, the smoothing of the interfaces to seams and how these high and well-intentioned sayings were all said – to actually ratify rather than bring on a rail that is really positive change. When – and with this I am approaching my conclusion – the Austrian Convention on Health Policy and Federalism is debated and the summation is: There are health skills, the federal government is responsible, and there are health skills, there are countries responsible, and there is also a third area, since the federal government and countries are responsible, then I have to say: That's a great insight, but it won't bring us on! Nor do I see any objective in bringing federalism and federal competence to a common denominator in health care. At least not yet! I wish the Federal Minister. I wish it all of us. But in these financial compensatory negotiations, it was not the right stone to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18028	The next item is the speech by Mr Neudeck. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18046	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! The 2005 Financial Balance Act, which is under discussion here, allows for a continuation of the reform policy. Although the negotiations were tough and, as was said by Mr Matznetter by the SPÖ side, there were tooth gnawings, a good compromise was found, and it is positive if red and green go off from their total blockade policy and at least partially agree to our structural reforms. It was agreed between the Federal Government and local authorities that the general distribution of tax resources alone was too little – it was already mentioned by the principle of casting canned – and it succeeded in moving forward with the conversion of the graded population key. Injustices in the previous system were not only recognized but also eliminated. It is now about sustainability, which is why the Federal Government, the Länder and the local authorities are called on to continue saving in the administrative field, and Minister of Finance Grasser has set up a working group to find solutions that are widely supported. Especially after today's urgent request and the countless discussions on the PISA study, I am pleased to note that education is an essential priority and that the funding for compulsory schools and special education in financial compensation negotiations has been increased by an additional €12 million. Health funds have also been increased, and savings in the same level are planned to be implemented in the future. It is up to countries and social insurance companies to make constructive contributions and sustainable structural reforms in the health sector. An interesting aspect is also the possibility, in future with the so-called municipal tax division, to distribute the municipal tax over municipal borders regionally. There is also the possibility to think more sustainable economic policies in larger areas, in regions and not only in local areas. Ladies and gentlemen! This 2005 Financial Balance Act is fair, forward-looking and another important step in continuing our policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18089	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18107	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Finanzminister! Unfortunately, only three minutes of speaking time, although there would be to be talk on this question for days. – In June of this year, the Minister of Finance said: There's no more money! The current financial compensation – that is, the last – is the maximum amount of the possible! He did not say the untruth, because there is no more money, but less, although the government parties here rejoice that there are 100 million for the communities each year. However, it is to be considered – and it is to be expected – that by 2007/2008 a round billion will be missing from the communities due to a tax reform that will not otherwise be in the shield, but will lead to the money being added to those who already have it, and to those who have nothing. This is your tax reform, which must be financed and co-financed by the communities! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know what your “greatness”, Mr. Finanzminister, for a community of 5,200 people like mine, the municipality of Schwerberg, means: although I have 51,649 more in the budget, at the same time I increase the national budget by €20 000, the health care contributions increase by €12 000, and – and now the main point – the social assistance scheme is increased by €95 000. So, Minister of Finance, where is the blessing that you supposed to have brought about the communities? I also looked at this with smaller communities, and I have to say: There is hardly anything left of the alms you are now giving us with these 100 million. A set also on the Stability Pact – much praised, much praised! But what does he mean to us by communities? – We do not have any financial room, we have no means to invest. What does that mean? If the municipalities do not invest, this means that small and medium-sized enterprises in the regions outside will no longer receive orders from us, then this means that the number of jobs in these already under pressure will be reduced. This also means that these regions will become increasingly empty in the future. You take everything away from there: The infrastructure's getting away. The post offices are getting away. The Greißlers die out there. The innkeepers lock up there. Mr Principality has been mentioned as a person who does a great deal for the asylumers. – Yes, I accept that and count it high. He's dealing with it. Only: Where the asylum seekers now live, this is an inn and a hotel that no longer exist, he would not have an asylumist, because of course your policy will also be fully implemented there. That is the “beautiful ” of it! Mr. Minister of Finance! For this reason, you will understand – or will probably not understand – we cannot agree to this package under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18153	Next, Mr Grillitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18174	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Matznetter's speeches and today's discussion are quite two-parts, I say: On the one hand, there is the realization that he cannot be worth twice as much as a person in the country from Vienna, adding to what additional tasks the small communities have to perform. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Come on, now stop the shame!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Matznetter and Mag. Gaßner.]] I'm positive! On the other hand, I am saddened by the rejection of the Stability Pact, which is also a lower burden. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, as the Federal Minister has also done, it is a good sign that we are going from the graduated population key to a task orientation, because it is actually the case that the small communities in the country have many, many new tasks to perform – I am thinking of canalization, I am thinking of waste disposal, leisure facilities and the like! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Where? Where?]] It is therefore necessary, in view of the degree of indebtedness of these small communities, to make an hour's notice to make such changes. I say quite frankly, I could have imagined a little more. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes?]] I could have imagined a little more, but this is a step in the right direction, a step in the direction that there is now €100 million more also for these small rural communities, a positive signal! Mr Finanzminister, I would like to thank you very much for being able to do so in this form. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have to say, too: In total, 15 to 21 € per head in these smaller communities are more! Everyone who knows what the budgets are today, both in the federal and in the country, also knows that this is not a matter of course. You just have to look at the whole package: Investment contributions for housing, environment and infrastructure that continue to benefit from housing support and thus allow countries to use these funds in connection with climate protection measures for the use of renewable energy sources as well as for environmentally friendly district heating, or infrastructure in the area of urban water management. In my opinion, summa sumarum is a step in the right direction, so of course it will also agree with us. In this sense, one more thanks to the Minister of Finance that this was possible in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18244	Mrs Sburny's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18262	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's really amazing: I am slowly wondering why this task orientation still does not exist, although they all want it. Anyone who comes to this speaker's desk says that it would be really great if we finally had the task orientation. [[Abg. Grill: Vote with you!]] – Yes, of course, we want that! But: We have surprisingly little influence on whether this is actually happening. [[Abg. Lentsch: It's not amazing!]] We have already discussed this in the Financial Committee, there are purely lip recognitions that you give of yourself! It has not succeeded in taking a step towards bringing together tasks, expenditure and revenue truth – that is, to make one step towards making it clear once that the person responsible for expenditure should also have responsibility for revenue – or has taken a step towards this task orientation, although this seems to be good for all, at least those who have spoken here today. From our point of view, it would be necessary to define criteria for this task orientation once. What you've done now is simply modify the graded population key in such a way that the small communities benefit from it. In today’s speech, colleague Auer has been “on the way ” in a truly grateful way. Compared to the morning debate, it was a real light look that you just once... – Right, you didn't talk, that was probably the mistake! [[Abg. Jakob Auer: I didn't speak in the morning!]] But that you have once explained what it might be about here... – So at least once something like a dialogue that most of your group unfortunately cannot do. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What's going on? Something's going on?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's interesting, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: All...! Listen!]] – I'm listening very well, you can be sure. What has now happened to this graded population bowl is that the small communities benefit from it. And whether this is the final conclusion of wisdom, I think you have to look at yourself, because there are, after all, different tasks for communities: They have basic tasks such as folk school maintenance, natural space-specific tasks, and population-specific and central local tasks. That is, one should start to find criteria for this. It makes little sense to transform everything in the direction of small and micro-communities – just as it has now happened in the financial compensation – until it is clarified what you actually need as a base. What we stand for here is an actual reform of this graded population key, but in another way, because we also assume that the proportions of the communities have fallen from the financial compensation, but at the same time the tasks and costs of the communities have increased. This means that the tasks that the communities have can no longer be performed in the usual form. Mr Gaßner mentioned earlier that the necessary investment by the municipalities can no longer be made, which is often a very serious problem for the regional economy. What would have to happen from our point of view is that there is not a further redistribution to the small and smallest communities, but that one needs something like a flat-rate service for basic financing, and then also fees for central and conurbation-specific tasks. However, criteria need to be laid down. But if all of us want to do this – and we have already discussed this in committee – then now, after the financial compensation has been decided or is going to be just today, perhaps a good time to think about these criteria, discuss them and determine them at all levels of Parliament and with the involvement of all four political groups – for the next financial compensation that may then be agreed.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18376	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18394	Madam President. Federal Minister! Well, it is understandable that the negotiations on financial compensation were difficult and certainly lengthy – at a volume of € 270 billion over four years only distributed too clearly. It is also true that the federal, state and local authorities have slowed down their expenditure dynamics in recent years. And they're certainly massively under pressure, that's no question. On the other hand, we know that changes always happen under a certain pressure. It is also apparent that there is an overall package of three parts that have already been mentioned: the financial compensation in the narrower sense, the funding of hospitals and the Stability Pact. It is not quite understandable to me, however, that we now do not want to vote in favour of the Stability Pact because of the 2005 budget, because of the tax reform, because of the client policy. I should like to take up Mr Auer's proposal once again. But it was not a proposal, it was actually a call for Parliament to be involved in the negotiations the next time. [[Abg. May. Gäsner: Understandably!]] – Yes, of course, first of all I would mean, it’s a reasonable demand, it’s desirable. Only: What would the practice look like? How would this integration affect the final effect? What effect does the accompanying information have on negotiating positions, which naturally change as a result of an approach? Is the end of the negotiations to be achieved earlier? – I do not think it is because negotiations in other areas, as well as in this one, show that ultimately, until the last minute, negotiations are under way. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the involvement of all parties: Yes! It is also an idea that I can quite join, one – we also call it a wishful idea in the sense of a competition of ideas. All four parties bring in their ideas. However, from the current point of view and from the current practice, I do not understand how it should work, namely, on the one hand, the need for reforms to recognize changes, on the other hand – and this impression had to be won especially in recent times – in principle to look for a hanger to nodage, just as is unfortunately the case with the opposition of God often, even in the meantime. So there's nothing to change. Nevertheless: I'm an incorrigible optimist and think it'd be worth an attempt. We will see whether the demands of Mr Auer will be taken into account. I'd be glad if it were. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18429	Mr Bauer came next. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18449	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We all know the importance of financial compensation, the legal certainty of the different local authorities. However, we also know that, if we agree to the financial compensation today, we have no reason to rejoice, but this has been born from reason to bring about this legal certainty. When you look at the history of the FAG: First of all, it was suggested that the municipalities and countries should not get anything at all. After that, it is sold as a great success that they will receive as much as € 212 million. I mean, this is more of a dramatic effect than a great success, because I believe that the financial balance is also done correctly, but the scale of 212 million for countries and communities just mentioned is in fact an estimate difference in the overall budget – and not anymore! In principle, consideration should also be given to a future financial compensation. The fact is that the distribution of tasks has become a very different one and that the communities are increasingly demanding. They have to carry out their tasks, but they can only do so on a very conditional basis despite this financial compensation, because not really more money goes into the communities if all the previous speakers have been properly understood. I join those who say: If one draws an overall balance, that is, the balance of what flows in, and of what they no longer receive or have to do through additional burdens, then it is a balance that does not go out for the benefit of the communities. And you can see that too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Until the mid-1990s, the municipalities had a share of the tax return of 18 percent. Now this value is about 17 percent, so many tasks can no longer be fulfilled. And this has many causes: by reducing revenue, halving advertising charges and the like. But the local authorities have always been involved in the cost increase – and that means looking for a new compensation system. I join those who believe that we should start working on a new financial balance now, one that creates more justice and takes more account of regional financial compensation after the necessary sharing of tasks. In this sense, one should actually set up a working group immediately, it all speaks for it. A sentence to Mr. Grasser. He mentioned that only 76 percent of the beds in the hospitals are used. I was a health board for some time and I know very well that the distribution of utilization is very different regionally and is also a management problem. But, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to make it clear: To demand that, for example, waiting times for orthopaedic operations should be reduced, as existing bed capacity exists, without the question of quality and the question of whether at all sufficient number of orthopaedics are available to include in the discussion is too short. Another thing for training: No one knows whether orthopaedic operations will become largely unnecessary tomorrow. Due to the long training periods, no such mechanistic constructions are necessary for the assessment of future needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18499	It has Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Grasser once again to speak. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18517	I promise, I only need two minutes, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer is looking at something wrong – looks slightly critical. Mr Bauer has just said that the communities do not really have anything of it. . I have not mentioned this in my previous remarks and therefore, honourable Member, I would like to see what we are talking about: Based on the current assessment of the income share development of the municipalities, all municipalities in Austria have at their disposal €6 170 million in 2004. In 2005, although a tax reform with a total of 3 billion discharges will enter into force, the federal government will have a reduction in its incomes, so we will have less money at our disposal than in 2004, increasing the incomes of the municipalities from 6 170 million to 6 240 million euros. That means they have absolutely more money at their disposal – despite the tax reform. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Do you guarantee that?]] In 2006 there will be € 6 370 million, in 2007 € 6 760 million, in 2008 € 7 060 million. In addition, those €100 million from the federal financial allocation I have already mentioned. On the other hand, we should also have a bit of the taxpayer in mind. The communities are now in a situation where they have much more money at their disposal than before. That is why I am convinced: This financial compensation is a success for the communities!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18565	The next item is Mr Dr Fassleven's speech. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18583	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have tabled an amendment tabled by Mrs Stummvoll, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, colleagues in the financial balance and would like to explain it in the key points: Article 3 essentially deals with the rules governing transfers by the Federal Ministry of Finance from tobacco tax. Article 6 essentially deals with the inclusion of the finalisation from the officials' round. I would ask that this amendment be negotiated. I would like to say the following about this decision package itself: The Stability Pact will continue the successful Austrian stability policy. It has brought us one of the world's strongest economic positions and is therefore absolutely to be booked on the country's success account. With the financial compensation, Austria's partnership policy will be continued successfully, a partnership policy that is recognised throughout Europe, which means that an administrative model takes place in agreement between the different local authorities. The rules governing the health care sector will: a successful continuation of health reform, in the way that one of the world's most efficient and best health systems is further improved. You, ladies and gentlemen, continue to refuse at least two areas of approval. Her party president Dr. In my opinion, cast builder has made a serious mistake: He has skinned with the wolves, and a guiding wolf, who does not lead his pack, but howls with it, can only wait for the reaction of the pack to be sooner or later. The first reaction: He has been bitten – by the members of his own pack. Every ninth to tenth bit or disregarded him. What value such a guide wolf still has, you can judge for yourself. For me, this has had a positive consequence, it has shown one: If a person in democracy is not already taking responsibility if a party leader of such a large party is not willing to take responsibility, then the account of this is presented not only to the population, but also to his own functionality, and this is a good sign of democracy in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18645	I announce that the amendment tabled by Dr. Stummvoll, Dipl.-Ing, as just explained in his key points. Prinzhorn, colleagues and colleagues were also presented in writing and are sufficiently supported. He is also involved in the negotiations. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] - I'm looking for peace! With regard to the scope of the application, I have already made it possible for it to be in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18805	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Trunk. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18823	Mr Fassleven, it does not seem to be very credible and not very convincing if you yourself as a gone ÖAAB boss talk about the generation of success and the success people such as Alfred Gusenbauer and his team. Save You will be able to do this in the future, because that does not promote your credibility! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Point two: Mr. Finance Minister, today is the third time that you quote figures from the field of neurosurgery, the surgical orthopaedic in connection with the health reform here. I am very glad that Mrs. Rauch-Kallat is back – I expect her to give you supplementary education; I also expect your friend and colleague Primarius Lanner from the LKH Klagenfurt – because what you are giving here in distorted numbers and non-voting statistics is a huge shame. It is not about distorted figures, Minister Grasser, but about neurology, neurosurgery, in particular, a quality assurance of the living situation of those people who need appropriate care, but not about your cynical approach to so-called empty beds. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Point three – as a poor little subsidiary representative, as a representative of Carinthia, to her permanent accusations Vienna concerning: The fact is that 215,000 people from other federal states find work and well-paid jobs in Vienna, and I thank Vienna in particular as a Carinthian. Many Carinthians find their workplace here, which are chanceless at home and left out. Fourth point, on your statements concerning child care facilities: Minister Grasser! 0 € for childcare facilities in all your budgets – and you are here to discuss a contribution of over 200 € for childcare in Vienna! Vienna is exemplary, should it also be for Carinthia and other federal states. [[Abg. Murauer: Where?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But really not, Mrs. Colleague! You know you're in Carinthia! You have no idea!]] In Vienna you will find point 1, childcare places with quality guarantee, and there is point 2, a social staggering: A third of the parents in Vienna pay € 0, a third pays socially billed and a third pays the amount mentioned by you. These are the grasses, they're the drunks and others. Only those who can afford to pay these more than €200 in reality. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true at all!]] One last point, two facts of your balance sheet: They're talking about taxes and abstract taxpayers. Tax payers are parishioners and parishioners, and these are also the 325,000 fates of the unemployed women and men in Austria in the communities and the fates of the 310 000 people affected by acute poverty. This is the balance of your financial compensation negotiations, where you take away the municipalities money, are investment brakes instead of motor. Minister! Take note of this reality and say goodbye to your virtual world!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18900	The next item is the speech by Mr Glaser. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18920	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Minister! High house! The current financial compensation and Stability Pact is a hard and hard-to-negotiated compromise, which we will agree on together today, to a large extent. While the countries in this financial compensation are treated roughly the same way depending on size and population, this is unfortunately still not the case among the municipalities. Small communities are still not sufficiently taken into account, which is why in my view – and this has already been mentioned a few times – this financial compensation for small communities is only a minimum solution for the small communities. [[Abg. Eder: The Minister said something else!]] A solution that does not help everyone according to their needs is simply not the right one yet. I was quite surprised not to say that I can only shake my head over the understanding of colleague Sburny, who almost regrets that there would be a redistribution here to the small and small towns. I don't know where the financial balance is. You read that, I didn't see anything about it anywhere. Depending on the Federal Republic of Germany, the small municipalities have just between €13 and €22 more available. Where you see a redistribution here, I don't know at the best of will. [[Abg. Eder: The Minister claims that!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I mean, it's and must be our goal to create, as far as possible, for all people and all communities in about the same living conditions. For this reason, even small communities must have a vibrant life, small communities must have economic power, small communities must be as powerful as large communities, otherwise this is not possible. That is why, for me and for many of us, the financial compensation now available is only the beginning of a development that we need to continue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is de facto an upgrading of one-third to 1.5 – certainly for us, and the Minister of Finance sees it that way – quite simply the entrance to the exit from this different division key. The federal balance between the weak communities is still not given, but it is still first divided into the countries and then into the communities. In other words, we still have a lot to do in the future, but overall, Mr Finanzminister, we would like to agree with the drafts before us for decision-making as a start to greater justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18974	The next speaker was Mr Wimmer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e18992	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! My previous social-democratic speakers have left no doubt that we will agree to the presentation of the financial compensation. It is indeed true that countries and communities will get a little more money on the paper. Under the rule, however, as we have already heard, the tax reform takes away the communities so much that the loss cannot be compensated. Nevertheless, this is somehow a positive signal, and that is also the reason why we can agree. It is gratifying that, as I have just said as a citizen of a small community, a little bit of injustice will be exacerbated, namely the graduated population key; by the way, a long-standing demand for smaller SPÖ communities. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But only the little one!]] Yes, it is. It is also good that the Objective Grant Act will be amended, in particular because there will be measures that will support the Kyoto objective. But, of course, it looks completely different when it comes to getting the health package over the stage today. Since, I must tell you, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, you have fallen back again, you have in turn chosen the way of the loads, as has been the case so often. But this will affect the weakest, and we Social Democrats simply do not want to go along with this path. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Shouldn't we actually call this health package a disease package?]] We could call it this way, because who will meet, ladies and gentlemen, if the health insurance contributions are increased if glasses and visual remedies are no longer paid by health insurance if the hospital fee is increased when the prescription fee is increased? – That will hit the weakest, and that is not a sensible policy! Another sentence on the Stability Pact. It's strange, ladies and gentlemen: Almost one third of all municipalities cannot compensate for their budget. How this should work, that they then balance, is really in the stars. I mean, it's not fair to decide a law when you know from home that it can't work like this. Another sentence on a press release, the colleague Klaus Auer on 30 July. ==References== He said he would not agree to the financial compensation – I think it is good, I find it courageous – because he is demonstrating against the post office closures. We will be very careful in the vote to see if he makes his promise true. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19048	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19066	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to comment briefly on health as part of the financial compensation. All in all, I believe that the financial compensation - which has already been said and mentioned several times - is a viable and sustainable compromise, and this also applies to the health section, although I would like to say as social spokesperson of the Austrian People's Party that not all of the proposals that are being implemented here come from our ranks and we would indeed have put more weight on expenditure-side rehabilitation measures or savings measures. But I think it is a viable compromise. Although I am sorry for the interests of the matter and, above all, of the co-negotiating countries and communities, that it is not carried by you, but certainly not for political reasons, because it is not clear that you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, are not able to share compromises, and are unable to take responsibility for government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darabos.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is especially true if you look at things in detail. I believe that even if you are basically opposed to increases in contributions, an increase of 87 cents in the average labour income and of just over 1 € per month at the rest of the average income is quite viable. I do not hide that I have considered the way to promote the generic through the intelligently split tariff, as it was originally intended, to be much better than the limitations associated with vision aids. However, this comes from the area of regional health telephones, and it is a compromise which also includes such proposals. I am convinced that our Mrs Health Minister will manage this socially compatible and properly in the interests of the whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19118	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Long rider. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19136	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The new regulation on financial compensation is a bit of a contradiction between Members in this House: On the one hand, we are responsible for the interests of the federal government and on the other hand, we are, of course, primarily, at least a large part of the Members here, including local politicians. This means that one or the other is argued differently. No question! I am at the financial compensatory negotiations, as the financial compensatory partners have negotiated them, although I also want to say in the near future that it is the case that Parliament is of course on the verge of something. I am glad that there have been a whole series of statements that have been quite prepared to reach out to the small communities and, above all, to the communities as a whole. The task-oriented approach has been briefly addressed by Mrs Sburny today. – No question, this is a topic that we have been discussing for ages. You do not have the problem that the municipalities and cities have, you do not have the responsibility in the cities and communities, and thus you have a simpler starting point. The differing views are known, but in the end, the negotiations have shown that the most important, even from the point of view of the task, has not been brought much into the negotiations – exclusively federal taxes have been converted into Community federal levies and have also come to a uniform distribution key. Ladies and gentlemen! The intercommunal financial compensation has already been mentioned briefly; it is very important for the communities. Finally, we communities are also obliged that we also set the appropriate levels on the part of the company. This is perhaps a way in which the financial compensation will help us in the future. At the same time – and I have to say quite openly – countries are called upon not to impose a fee on communities, particularly as regards the stability criteria. We know that the countries require social assistance transfers from the municipalities. Here, too, the countries have quite a need for rethinking. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Thank you. As far as health platforms are concerned, it is for the first time really possible – and also very decisively – for the first time that the funds are planned and controlled between hospitals and the established area, especially between social security institutions and the legal entities to finance. I think that's a very great thing. All in all, we look proudly into the financial compensation times of the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19190	The next item is the speech by Mr Keussnigg. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19209	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to express my thanks to Mr Bundeskanzler, who is not here at the moment, and also to the Minister of Finance and to all the federal negotiators; thank you, above all, for their offensive for the weak communities and, in particular, for the provision of the necessary financial resources. Because without the use of the federal government – this has to be said here – neither the additional money that we need for this offensive would have been necessary, nor would it have been the change in the graduated population key. I say this in order to point out that this change has, of course, changed the starting point for the next round of negotiations. This offensive for the weak communities is to be seen in a wider context. We know that in rural areas we are constantly losing economic power, but what is to be done? What is the answer? – The red light already shines, that is, my speaking time is almost over again, so I can say it very briefly: It needs a more comprehensive approach. I would like to mention once again the broadband offensive of the Federal Government. This broadband offensive brings households in rural communities more than, for example, single postal offices, much more than others. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This concept of strengthening rural areas also fits in with this financial compensation. It is about bringing additional money into the communities, providing services for citizens, enabling the communities themselves to provide economic support. I would like to take up once again the idea and initiative of Mr Jakob Auer. The increased involvement of the National Council, the Parliament in the negotiations, will also make it easier for some of us to vote, because of the fact that we are too little, and thus hope that we will achieve even more in the next round towards strengthening rural areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19255	The next item is Mrs Machne's speech. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19273	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! High house! In the context of the financial compensation, I would like to begin by thanking all the negotiators of the federal, state and local authorities who in these difficult times have achieved this by all the financial compensation carried out. It has not succeeded in taking all the wishes into account – we have heard this today in many speeches – but we have, I believe, gone on a lot further. During today's debate, I noticed when I listened to Mr Kogler's wish to cut the financial resources for the countries. I do not know how his colleagues in the countries will judge this. Nor do I fully understand that although the SPÖ will agree with the expenditure of the federal government for the municipalities, it will not be the revenue that the federal government needs in order to be able to carry out these expenditures. It's a mystery to me, how else should it be, but it's obvious – or it's just to take note of it. I believe that the creation of this financial compensation was difficult, but it is a step in the right direction for the next four years. I believe that both the cities and the small communities can be satisfied. First of all, I would like to thank Jakob Auer. If Jacob If we had not taken the floor again and again, the financial compensation would not even have been achieved in this form. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Our Minister of Finance has raised again today – we have already heard this in the Financial Committee – that despite the tax reform, the tax income for the municipalities will not fall, on the contrary, they will not rise significantly, but they will rise to a small extent. Therefore, one cannot say that the small communities no longer get. For example, this is €765,000 per year in Osttirol. You can't say that's nothing. With us, the communities are satisfied. I hope it won't devastate the communities on the other side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] [[Call:Your time]] – The speaking time. Thank you very much to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, but also to our Secretary of State and the Minister for Finance. Thank you for these financial compensatory negotiations!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19325	The next item is Mrs Stadler's speech. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19343	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Much has been said in this debate. Finally, however, I would like to mention three points which are particularly important for rural communities. First of all, the increase of the lowest multiplier in the graded population key – a long-standing demand, a screw that has at least been turned; this turning is a step towards more justice, but by far does not bring justice. Nevertheless, this will result in about €80 million Financial mass in the direction of the municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants. The second point, which I believe is important, is the possibility of intercommunal financial compensation. In rural areas in particular, it is now possible for small communities to create facilities or commercial areas, which will allow for tax sharing. The third point is to safeguard and maintain housing and urban water management by 2008 – both areas, which reduce difficulties and additional costs, especially in sparsely populated regions, and thus ensure that good infrastructure can continue to be built. Ladies and gentlemen! The objective of federal government, countries and municipalities to have and maintain a proper household is achieved. It is ensured that the additional expenditure of the weak municipalities in particular can be a little ques tioned. I too can thank you very much, Jakob Auer. You were a wise knight for us. I thank you for that, and we will “enhance.”
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19392	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. – Before I ask to lower the noise level a little! Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19413	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I do not want to say much more about financial compensation, because everything has really been said. However, it is my concern to stand out here because of a special matter. As a member of the Carinthian parliament, you are always exposed to personal competition within the country of your home country. And that is why it has already been fascinating to see that two representatives of the ÖVP, with the same name, have given of themselves very interesting: The one has turned out – that was Jakob Auer – with well-known critical words, from the beginning, but always with clear consent, the other was colleague Jakob Auer, who probably was in Carinthia – Klaus Auer, apologies, a joyous promiser – and the other was Klaus Auer, who had announced for weeks in the Carinthian media that he would not agree to this financial compensation, he would not get his voice. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] He has thus in Carinthia really insecured many small communities and tried to raise the appearance of him as Klaus Auer will, as it were, prevent the great balance coming. I am very excited and very curious about it – I have spoken to say this here; I will then follow it very closely – whether Klaus will agree or not, because as a responsible politician, one cannot and must not preach in Carinthia water and drink wine in Vienna, but one should carry out what one decides from Carinthia to Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19461	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[Unrest in the hall.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – I would first like to ask everyone to take up the seats and suppress the spirit of speech! First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law which regulates the financial compensation for the years 2005 to 2008 and other financial compensation provisions are made and the aim grant law, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act, the Special Support Act, the Military Supply Act, the War Victims' Act, the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spatial Institutions and the Tobacco Tax Act 1995 are amended in 731 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have been silent, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Principal, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Dr Matznetter, colleagues. I shall therefore vote on the draft law, taking into account the supplementary or amendment tabled and the request for separate vote. We shall vote on Articles 1 and 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give them their consent. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Articles 3 to 11 as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, ladies and gentlemen. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on Article 12 of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those Members who speak for it. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn, Dr. Matznetter, Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, on the increased fight against tobacco smuggling. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 83.) We shall also vote on the draft federal law, which amends the family compensation law, together with the title and receipt in 732 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the present agreement, the Austrian Stability Pact 2005 in 701 of the Supplements to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (686, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Re-establishment Tax Act, the VAT Act 1994, the Health and Social Security Aid Act 1996, the International Tax Fees Act 1996, the Fees Act 1957, the Consular Fees Act 1992, the Investment Fund Act 1993, the EU Tax Code, the EC Law on Public Service Assistance, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Use of Standards, the Law on Mineral Oil Tax in 1995, the Municipal Tax Act in 1993, the Re-foundation Tax Law in 1993 (Federal Tax Act), the Federal Tax Code, the Tax Code on Taxation, the Law on Taxation of Taxation, the Law on the Enforcement of Taxation, the Law on the Enforcement of Taxation, the Law on Taxation of Taxation, the Law on Taxation of Taxation, the Law on Taxation of Taxation, the Law on Taxation of Taxation, the Law on Taxation of Taxation, the Law on Taxation of Taxation of Taxation, the Law on Taxation, the Law on Taxation of the Law on Taxation of the Law on Taxation of the Law on Tax on Tax on Taxation, the Law on Taxation of Taxation, the Law on Tax on Tax on Taxation, the Law on Taxation, the Law on Taxation of Taxation of Tax on Taxation of Taxation and the Law on Taxation of Tax on Tax on Taxation of Taxation, the Law on Tax on Tax on Taxation, the Law on Taxation of Taxation, the Law on Taxation, the Law on Taxation, the Law on Tax on Tax on Tax on Tax on Tax on Tax on Tax on Taxation, the Law on Tax on Tax on Tax on Tax on Tax on Tax on Tax on Taxation of Tax on Tax on Taxation, the Law on Taxation, the Law on Taxation and Taxation of Taxation of Taxation of Taxation of Taxation of Taxation of Taxation (2004 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (642 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the sale of unmovable federal assets (735 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19608	We now come to points 13 and 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. This opens up the debate. Mr Matznetter was the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19635	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! There is also another extensive legislative work to be found here at an advanced hour: the VAT Change Act 2004. I should like to say in advance that we have tried very hard to give those parts to which we can give the consent, as well as: These are a large number of amendments, partly judicial amendments, some of which are reasonable, and we therefore have a relatively complicated voting procedure at the end of this point. What we cannot do, however, is to sanction improvement and repair work with an agreement that, if in the past, if one had done things in a craftsmanship – according to the principle that Mr Ab-ordered Walch, for example, always mentions that one reads first, then thinks, and then speaks – had already taken place at the time of the decision-making of the relevant laws. – I can just give you an example of this. You are voting today on a change to the maximum allowable amount for the benefit of the untapped profit. – Remember our discussions at the time when this was introduced: First, we criticized the fact that there was no upper limit. A amendment was then tabled. It was expressly pointed out – I did this in the Committee and here on this pult – that this ceiling has to be understood, of course, per taxable person and not per company, because the form of design allows for any extension of the same by individual companies. – This was not a political objection, but it was an indication that it was crafted badly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] What's now? – A year and a half later, the government will present us with a repair, with which exactly our then objection will be made. Put the shodders down! Listen to these things, and try to listen to reasonable things as well! The tax payer and the taxpayer have the damage, because the use of the construction that moves you to repair means a tax failure. It is one of the many millions that are being sought in the 2004 execution. – Make it better, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: If you were more objective, it would also be better!]] I would like to be brief because we still have a lot of points to say on which to say very much. The repair work on group taxation now involves several pages of change of law before the law enters into force at all. They produce laws of a kind to give an example of how to produce a new car, in which, before the ignition key was turned over by the customer, repairs have to be started. – That’s bad production, that’s bad planning and craftsmanship done wrong! I also promise you from here that you will have to make much more repairs with regard to this group tax for purely reasons of restricting erosion at corporate tax, because you have opened a barn gate! You have opened a tax haven in Austria, and you have not created a modern corporate tax law either. This lack will still keep you company, and we will not tire of keeping it to you either. They have made tax gifts and made design possible, and they will be looking for hundreds of millions of euros of tax money at corporate tax in execution next year and, above all, next year. We'll miss these. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19690	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19708	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Just one word to my previous speaker: Mr Matznetter! This Federal Government and these majority fractions do not make tax gifts, but they make a policy of tax reduction in the interests of jobs in our country, in the interest of the economic and labour location Austria and to raise the purchasing power of our workers. – This is the tax policy of our Federal Government, Mr Colleague! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But obviously he doesn't listen at all. [[Abg. Neudeck: He can explain it right now!]] Okay. Ladies and gentlemen! What is available today as a tax-amendment law is – let us be quite open! – a collection of amendments resulting from the ECJ Judicature, from the national Judicature, from practical requirements, from innovative approaches, such as the bonus/malus system in diesel particle filters, and similar things. I would like to admit that this tax-amendment law withdraws, in its importance, from the big tax reform, no question at all! The latter was the great throw and the great tax relief for the next years, whereas the tax-change law on the other hand is a collection of necessary adjustments by the legislator to the requirements of practice, jurisdiction and so on. I would therefore like to highlight just a few points, especially those where we have really tried to find a solution. First of all, the issue of loans to local authorities was: In this context, we wanted to prevent the tax freedom of interest on loans from local authorities from being combined, for example, with the group tax instrument due to the tax reform. We wanted to prevent that. In the same way, however, we also wanted to prevent us from interfering in constructions that were previously taxable. – I think we have agreed on a very reasonable line in this regard: What was previously taxable is also possible in the future. However, on the method of reconstructing a new design according to the raisin principle of tax law and tax law, we said: This goes too far, because we, as tax legislators, are ultimately highly responsible for the government budget and for the overall budget. As a second example, I would like to mention the ecologically innovative approach of the bonus/malus system to diesel vehicle particle filters. We will put in another amendment which provides for a small change, which, I believe, is necessary due to market requirements, simply by saying: In the case of small cars, in which this technology will not yet be available in half a year, it is not useful to introduce a bonus/malus system. I can't tell the potential car buyer: If you're not buying this car that already has this technology, but another car, you're gonna have to pay for a malus. – That is not possible, therefore we will present here an amendment which will be postponed by half a year for the small vehicles below 110 hp and below 80 kW. [[Abg. Eder: Look here!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I mention as a third example – extremely important for the economy, but also for urban development – that we are now eliminating the five-year mills for operation in mixed buildings, because this has meant that many entrepreneurs have left their business location empty for five years because they wanted to avoid the silent reserves being taxed. This was with an incentive that in the small cities and communities the shops in the center were often left empty: They were deliberately not rented out for tax reasons. Last: I also mention – it certainly is only a circle of investors, but also many small investors – that we are de facto equalizing the foreign investment funds, as far as the white funds are concerned, with the countries. This means that the security tax is removed where an agreement is reached with the bank on the corresponding delivery of the KEST. Overall, this is a collection of necessary changes, and I would like to repeat here a suggestion, Mr Finanzminister, from the Committee – you have heard it: Perhaps you should really think – so that not so much comes together, because it really comes together over the course of a year – whether we should not share in the future and make some of the necessary adjustments in June and a second part in December. – I think that would be a good thing to discuss. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19766	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19784	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! It is a long work. I don't know how many laws are changed under one. But it's true: I made the comparison in the Committee with the budget accompanying law, which is incorrect insofar as, of course, some things were not properly dealt with before, but now in a washup. There are really many smaller repairs in it, and as such we will not criticize them now and not the procedure. It also contains a few points which we expressly agree with, and some that we reject. I'm gonna get one out of each one of them. Before I refer to your remarks, Mr President, I come to the point that we reject, namely the attempt to catch a little of the spirit, which already escapes from the bottle, in the so-called group taxation. In our view, this is a very poor attempt, and indeed: Your house originally presented a more appropriate solution. I do not want to address this because it is a relatively complicated matter, but I would like to say that: The original drafts were in case we did this correctly – otherwise correct me! – in any case clearer and more stringent in terms of content. What did we have to find out? – You will say that this is the meaning of a review process. The industrial association has come up with some textual component in the explanatory statement and texting of the law, but see here: The whole can be found essentially as once. – We would have welcomed a start – and then, in fact, agreed – to get a real grip on the law as described in the explanations that certain phenomena with company value depreciation et cetera are regulated accordingly. Unfortunately, they have buried this again, and that is why we do not agree. The whole thing – in any case, in our opinion – is not really a correction, but a sham cosmetic. That is why we do not give our consent to this. On the other hand, in this case on the issue of the standard consumption tax and also on the mineral oil tax and the relevant novels. This is the case. We now have our approval twice, unlike the Committee: There we were still very skeptical about mineral oil tax. We have imagined that we will look at the matter again and discuss it. – Mr Schultes is still there, who was particularly interested in our voting behaviour. We came to the following conclusion: With regard to the levy on standard consumption, we agree, although we already want to maintain that this is a very small step in the so-called right direction, but after all. I would now like to address your comments as a first step, Mr President. According to our understanding, eco-taxes – as a superintendent – or ecological elements of tax-based design features seem to be very likely to stimulate suppliers on the market to something and not just the buyers at the end of the stage. A real eco-tax works by interfering in the overall structure of price and cost relationships. Therefore, a higher spraying would be possible even for those cars in which this technology is not yet available, although that is not true, because there are certain passenger car brands in this class, which would have been very likely to have this technology available. That was actually a reason to do it there, because it is precisely those that are supposed to benefit from this incentive phenomenon. Just because a few brands don't have that in the range yet, you can't say: That's not supposed to be! . I think that's what goes beyond the idea of the steering function of eco-taxes. – This would be useful for providers as well. In fact, the idea is that long-term economies in which the tax calculation is converted into such a direction could have a “first mover advantage”. In Austria this is not out of the world, because we now – thank God!, I say so – have something to offer in the field of engine technology and exhaust gas technology also in research and development. Being so reluctant seems to be exaggerating to me. In any case, from my point of view, it is a false access if you say: Because not every brand in a given range or product group already has it in supply, it must be weakened or withdrawn in the case in question. In my view, this means that the steering idea of an eco-tax is unknown. In the bonus malus system you so called, this measure is already taking effect. In fact, this is going to lead to a rise in the tax rate. Our idea would, of course, be to redesign – as we have it in the grand – with a much larger throw neutrally: Total and standard consumption taxes remain essentially the same, but a much clearer spray is planned than now. The spraying is also very, very low due to these bonus malus incentives. You could go up higher at the so-called Malus – but I wouldn't call it that anymore – but at the bonus, on the other hand, you could go down further. One can, of course, estimate this with a few quantity effects approximately neutral, so that it all goes out. Unfortunately, these calculations have not even been made. I asked about it in committee. It is actually about a psychological incentive effect, as you said. That is also good, we agree. I would have thought the time was long since ripe, that we would also integrate ecological controls into the individual tax types where it works well, and the In fact, the standard consumption tax would be such. According to her name, she already points out that the fleet could be changed accordingly. At the end of the day, I can still announce that we will be introducing a resolution on this subject, in which the Greens express their opinion that, of course, buses, but only quite the same principle should apply to trucks. With regard to this area, you can hold back more or less noble. We regret this because there would actually be the bulk of these particles by filter, not just at the passenger fleet. This also applies, of course, to the other motorized vehicles, e.g. for piste caterpillars et cetera, even with these, one could do similar things everywhere. This also applies to the mineral tax sector in which fuel is being added. It would be more useful, for example, to equip certain devices very concentrated there solely with these biogenic fuels, where nature is very threatened. This is technologically possible. But you don't do all that, but you'll be content with these funeral stories. To that end, we say: Okay, that's good too, but big modo we won't solve the problems with these very, very small steps! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19873	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19891	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This tax-amending law includes 20 legislative amendments, which, as my previous speakers have already said, are on the one hand EU-related, on the other hand, offer more practical solutions for tax treatment. By means of the Income Tax Act, it is a matter of facilitating the operation of the company. We know that in the past there have been very serious shortcomings in this area and many entrepreneurs did not know how to resolve their business. It is also about wage calculation, i.e. wage accounting abroad. And it's about the municipal tax calculation, for example, that the ÖBB as a whole can calculate the municipal tax and then this municipal tax is divided into the individual municipalities concerned. The Re-foundation Promotion Act also deals with the fact that corporate management, i.e. those involved, can only be re-employed after two years as a participant in the company. To sum up, the amendments to the law are necessary and also facilitate tax treatment. However, because the Minister of Finance has already been so praised, I would also like to introduce a current discussion, which has now been discussed very often in the newspapers, namely the taxation of drinking money. As you know, my sympathy for your being in this direction is limited. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] I cannot imagine that in this way we can maintain the quality of services in Austria, especially in the important area of tourism, where above all the smallest and small incomes are concerned. This is the first time that we have been affected. I believe that there is nowhere in this form in the European and international comparison, and we must try to maintain the quality of services in the form in which it is so competitive in Austria. So I would already signal in this direction that our party is not available for taxation of the drinking fee, and hope that we will find another way in the future. But we certainly don't touch the drinking money, because I'm quite simply convinced that this is not a good way to make people in Austria happy, especially in the case of small incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19945	The next item is Mr Eder. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19964	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with those two points of the tax-amendment law, which were also dealt with by Mr Kogler, namely the bonus-malus system in the soot particle filter question. I can say clearly here that my group will not agree with the government's proposal. I also do not know the amendment tabled by Mr President-in-Office of the Council. However, I think it is a target and I think it is going in the right direction, because it does not make sense to introduce a levy where the vehicles are not even available on the market, especially in the smaller diesel areas. Maybe something can really be repaired in this direction. I would think that would be very useful. Secondly, I can hold on to the addition of biodiesel and bioethanol to petrol: The Socialist Group will vote in favour of this point, because we have considered it reasonable that the date of entry into force, especially as regards bioethanol, i.e. petrol blending, should not be 1. ==References====External links== ==References== We have had talks with agriculture, we have also had talks with the industry producing these raw materials. It was reasonable in the sense of all, in the sense of agriculture, for the corresponding advance periods to grow the products at all, as well as the industry producing these products, for if that had not happened, there would have been more tax on those fuels which are not available with biogenic substances. That would not have been understandable to the drivers. I am therefore very glad to have been able to deal with these two points in this form, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e19991	The next item is the speech by Mr Mitterlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20009	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From our point of view, we find essentially positive changes in the tax-change law. Some of the changes that have been planned are not in the law, we find this positive, for example, when it comes to the credits and deterioration in this area. But what we consider very positive is above all three facts, especially from the point of view, because we are now always talking about emptying rural areas. And indeed. Here is the very positive point of the change as regards the benefit of buildings in the case of operations. Here we have had the situation that renting and leases in particular were not tax-saving. This is now being changed. It has also succeeded in maintaining the five-year limit in the event of disposal and has not been extended to ten years. That is to say, in the final effect, this measure will facilitate the transfer of operations, particularly in the regional area, in remote regions. That is very positive. This also applies, of course, to the urban area, where some roads are now equipped with empty commercial sites. This will also be significantly improved by this measure. A second measure towards equal opportunities in rural areas should also be extended positively: § 33 para. 8 Income Tax Act. There will also be the possibility for frontier workers to benefit from the so-called negative tax when it comes to the border crossing rate. This means that apprentices in this field are equated with apprentices from other areas. They have not had such opportunities as others in the regional area, in the border area, and depend on apprenticeships abroad. Third point: For the site, the possibility of a regulatory authorisation for tax facilitation of access is particularly positive when it comes to scientists from abroad. It is positive that this Regulation empowerment applies not only to the university sector but also, in particular, to the economic sector. We believe that, especially in this area, we must urgently change our regulations regarding foreign researchers, because in the final effect, it will be to create incentives and not just regulations that have long since been overtaken by the past. This is therefore a particularly forward-looking measure, which is also positive for Austria's location. Last but not least a comment on the promotion of diesel particle filters. We believe that this is a right measure to provide for split times now. For cars over 80 KW, that is 110 hp, this applies from 1. June next year, and for all the others who are not yet available, better preparation time, this will only be from 1. Years of the year 2006. In other words, there are possibilities for appropriate preparation. In total, ladies and gentlemen, the tax-amendment law, as it stands, is therefore a measure that strengthens the location on the one hand and, on the other hand, takes quite account of environmental justice on the other. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20058	The next item is Mrs Sburny's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20076	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to join the standard excise legislation once again, because a point has not yet been mentioned here, which I do not wish to leave unsaid. Mr Kogler has already mentioned what is not inside in this law, which we support in itself and in spite of all its shortcomings, and what we think is a gross failure, namely that there is no activity towards trucks and buses. The second thing that has not yet been said here and which is at least as important is that there are no activities in relation to retrofit filters for cars. If you look at the fact that more than 2 million diesel cars are in operation in Austria due to the current tax advantage of diesel, you can see that this is about half of the total vehicle fleet. That means that there is indeed a great need for reflection here. These two points are open. It would really be desirable for something to happen in this area too, especially with regard to the fact that this fine dust exposure is proven to be carcinogenic and particularly affecting children. From our point of view, there is an urgent need for action here. Secondly, I have already mentioned this in committee. From my point of view, what is unacceptable in this law is your comment on gender mainstreaming. I have already said that I will bring this up to the plenary session with concrete figures. They write in the explanatory notes: “Gender mainstreaming – impact on men and women” – which must now be identified by any law –: ‘The amendments to the present draft do not allow for a meaningful allocation to men and women.’ I think this remark is a pure provocation. It is not appropriate, but it is purely political will, whether you wish to do so once, to assign the effects of such laws to men and women. I would like to quote you in this context, because it is also about mineral oil tax and always about the vehicles, about individual transport and about public transport, a study conducted by the VCÖ, the transport club Austria. The “Women & Mobility” study notes that there are different mobility behaviours between men and women. On the one hand, it is found that women are much more mobile than men, i.e. a lot more and much longer different ways per day than men, men being about three ways, so to work and back and perhaps to leisure time somewhere anywhere, while women travel up to eight ways a day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Mr Grossruck, I can imagine that you can't do anything with this. [[Abg. Grossruck: What are the statistics for?]] - I'll explain it to you in a moment. You just need to listen to the end. So women leave up to eight ways by bringing children to kindergarten, then going to work, then going to shop, then back home. There is no much to be seen from leisure time anyway. But after all, they put more than double the paths. Mr Großruck! The decisive thing in this context is that women leave these routes much less often by car and much more on foot, by bicycle or by public transport. This is very commendable, for example, if you look at this matter with the fine dust and on where the increasing individual traffic leads. In other words, it would be very easy to determine how they represent themselves for women or men by developing public transport or, for example, the cycle network in comparison to supporting individual transport. There would be very easy to deduce points, and one could also write into such a law and would not have to resort to this very general formula, because unfortunately we do not yet know anything, because we have not yet taken care of it. Maybe something will change sometime.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20122	The next item is Mr Spindelegger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20140	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In connection with these materials, we have also learned one again: Many questions lie in the detail that require a very intense discussion, and it is only this discussion that often makes a regulation that implements precisely the political will, so that, precisely, a control in tax laws is actually effected. I believe that we are now providing for a system that is also practical on the issue of the lending of local authorities. I would like to thank the Federal Minister and Mr State Secretary and his House for having achieved a good solution in these intensive discussions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the issues relating to diesel particulate filters. I think we have also found a practical solution. I very much disagree with Mr Kogler, who said that an incentive must first be created and the offer adjusted accordingly. I thought it extremely unfair if, especially in the case of motor vehicles under 80 KW, such an offer was not or only to a very limited extent and led the customer, as it were, to certain brands. I think that this would not be practical and not right from politics either. It is not a question of placing certain brands in the centre now, but of leaving this decision to the buyer and of creating an incentive system from policy so that one can also become more aware of how to achieve less pollutant emissions using the appropriate technology. I believe that the amendment tabled by Mr Fassleven will now provide a practical solution on this point too, and we can take a further step towards an eco-social market economy with this system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20176	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking next time. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20195	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The present tax-amending law also takes into account a successful constitutional court’s complaint by the Chamber of Labour of Lower Austria, in so far as costs for universities or higher schools in general, i.e. provided that there is indeed a different profession, than advertising costs, to be deducted. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We Socialists – and I am doing this now – want to make an amendment. Madam President, I would like to ask you to reproduce and distribute. The amendment tabled by Dr. Matznetter and Marianne Hagenhoferoll, in the key points, states that on the one hand, it is made clear that the follow-up of primary school examinations and the cost of the professional maturity examination should also be recognised as advertising costs. Secondly, it's about the particle filters. Since there are no particle filters available for numerous diesel engine models and will not be available in 2006, the tax increase provided for in the Government template, which corresponds to the punishment of buyers of certain car models, will not be implemented. Estimated Members of the Government Party! I would ask you to agree to our amendment. On the one hand, it helps to promote skilled workers' training, and on the other hand, of course, it also supports the knowledge-based location of Austria. This, in turn, benefits the economy and the workers. Furthermore, no passenger car drivers should be penalised for whose models there are no corresponding particle filters. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20240	I announce that the amendment tabled by Mr Matznetter, Mr Hagenhofer, Mr Hagenhofer, Mr Matznetter, colleagues, was also presented in writing and is sufficiently supported in his key points; he is therefore involved in the negotiations. I have caused this request to be made in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are duplicated and distributed. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20320	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Schools. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20339	Thank you, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Today we have an interesting decision in the Mineral Oil Tax Act. We know that our crude oil supplies come to Austria from very dubious sources. As you can see, Saudi Arabia threatened, Libya interesting, Nigeria interesting, Azerbaijan not just a holiday country. In 2002, Iraq has also counted among our suppliers. We will also have better sources in the future. We have the Matzner field and in the future also the Austrian fields, because today we will decide that we will bring biofuels to our fuel. The plants of our fields create starch, sugar and oil. From this reliable solar energy storage we will in future produce biofuels, for our cars, for road traffic. There are three good reasons for this: first, the improvement of our security of energy supply, second, the creation of numerous new jobs in Austria. Thirdly, It will be part of our active climate change policy, and we are at least a little closer to the Kyoto target. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am also pleased that a good solution could be found on the issue of the particle filter, and I am pleased that I can support it. On the question of mineral oil tax: It is good that at least the Social Democrats vote in favour. I don't understand what's going on with the greens. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We just explained this!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You agree now!]] Did it just come? – Then I am all the more pleased that the Green Movement is also showing and everything is solved on this important question.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20395	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20413	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My dear Mr. Vorsprecher! They are not so to speak at the tooth or at the latest state of the art. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] [[Abg. Broukal: At the pulse of time!]] I don't want to say you argued out here on the gum, so to speak. But you have very probably failed to appreciate our constructive approach to this problem. We are taking part in your decision, although we clearly articulate that this spraying of the standard consumption tax is really just a small step to eliminate this disproportionateity that exists in this whole diesel taxation. The diesel has a privileged position in Austria, and this is completely wrong about health aspects. Health policy and transport policy are not comprehensible that the diesel price is so low. [[Abg. Eder: Right!]] You only need to read the latest publications. It's absolutely dangerous to the health of the people in these soot particles. The children have lower lung growth rates. The immune system is severely impaired. The number of cases of disease increases. The 3,000 people in Austria die every year from the fact that too much fine dust is in the air. This is simply tolerated in this house for years. And now there is the first point of approach, which we take with us, only this first point of approach in the back and front, because it concerns only the passenger cars and not the trucks and not the buses. [[Abg. Neudeck: You can only hint to the right and the left!]] There is something we must do if we really want to offer this whole potential for danger, and that is necessary for health reasons. Tomorrow, the health reform will be discussed again. Today, health policy should finally be taken against this burden by these fine dusts and these particles created by diesel gases, especially for trucks and buses. That is why we make a further request in the course of this debate, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you want to make your own health advances appear to be credible to a minimum tomorrow, you must vote with us here and today in this motion for a resolution on the reduction of this pollution by diesel. Otherwise, all of this will be unbelievable, which you always quote in the health debate. That is why, at the end of the day, a single note is made: In 1990, 400,000 cars in Austria were the same. For trucks and buses, it was usually 100 percent. And now, 14 years later, it's 1 800 000. This blatant increase, this more than quadruple of the diesel company, has vehements of health policy consequences, and we have tabled a request here to reduce this burden and to stop it, and I ask you to support it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20513	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20577	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Fassl evening. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20596	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I bring the amendment tabled by Dr. Stummvoll, Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government template 686 of the Supplements, as amended by the report of the Financial Committee, 734 of the Supplements, and would like to explain the key point as follows. There is a new regulation on the transfer of financial resources to own and foreign subsidiaries. I would also like to point out that, in very constructive discussions with the Federal Minister for Finance, the Secretary of State and the officials of the Federal Ministry of Finance, it has succeeded in finding a solution which, on the one hand, also provides the scope for the territorial authorities to be developed. to ensure the future and that on the other hand, on the other hand, prevent tax evasion to a greater extent. I think that is a really successful solution. Therefore, a compliment to the Federal Minister and his State Secretary: Your financial policy is fully in line with our ideas. We are not of the opinion that what one deserves more than the other should be exhausted from the tax, but we believe that monetary sovereignty should be primarily with that which has also earned this money through its own performance. And we would like to encourage you to continue this policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20635	I announce that the amendment tabled by Dr. Stummvoll, Dipl.-Ing, as just explained in his key points. Prinzhorn, colleagues in writing, has been given sufficient support and is therefore under negotiation. With regard to the scope of the application, according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall cause the application to be duplicated and distributed. In addition, it will also be printed in the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20832	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20851	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the small coalition shows how to do it wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Great enough for you!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Yes, but it is the smallest coalition that has ever ruled in Austria. That's what you have to say. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: And also the most successful!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Good? That's another question. Even today again in the diesel particle filter, the small coalition shows us how to do it wrong. According to WHO in Austria, about 2,500 people die from the particles emitted by diesel vehicles. These are two to three times as many as in road traffic die directly from accidents. Most of these particles are emitted by trucks and buses. So one would assume that this law concerns mainly trucks and buses. But this is not the case, and this is the first mistake: This regulation concerns only passenger cars. According to today's law, passenger cars with diesel particle filters are taxed more than passenger cars without diesel particle filters. They are also more expensive from house around 600 €. With higher taxation, a vehicle with particle filters is now about € 1,000 more expensive than one without. According to the law, it is still more expensive and not cheaper. Second error: A car with diesel particle filter is still around 400, 500 € more expensive than one without. So no reasonable law that provides an economic incentive to switch to this technology. The third thing is that you have to ask yourself the question: Does this system support at least cars that consume less petrol or less diesel? And there too: no, not again! That's the third mistake. A very simple example: A VW-Polo, which consumes approximately 4.4 litres on 100 kilometres, becomes 1.5 percent more expensive by this system. And a VW-Phaeton, which consumes almost triples, that is, more than 11 litres, becomes only 0.26 percent more expensive. Here again, a mistake. But there are a number of others, some of whom have already been mentioned in the debate, who will lead to the failure of the success story that has already existed in a similar environmental policy measure, namely the introduction of the catalyst. It would be relatively simple to do so, because the saying would come true again, just on this question: Learning from social democracy means learning how to do it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20913	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20931	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Given the very short speaking time of no more than two minutes, I will limit and focus on a measure which, however, has significant importance for the Austrian financial centre, namely the tax equal treatment for domestic and foreign funds caused by the change in the Income Tax Act and the Investment Fund Act. This measure is an overdue scheme, since the previous state, which includes a distinction in black, white, grey funds and whose different tax treatment has been effected, has also been highly confusing to the professionals and has naturally led to a significant uncertainty among investors. The current system is reasonable and appropriate, and since it – for this it is to be thanked to the Ministry of Finance – has been developed through the involvement of experts and representatives of the fund companies and banks, it is certainly also practical. Where does this scheme lead? – It makes the financial market Austria even more attractive, creates more competition and more freedom of choice for the investor, strengthens investor confidence and thus comes at the right time, because the investment form in funds is currently increasing in attractiveness, thus also strengthening Austria's economic location in international competition. As this measure will be adopted today, it can be said: This Federal Government once again provides a good day for the economic and financial location Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20968	Mr Pirklhuber is next spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e20987	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a contribution to this debate. Enter the novels of the Mineral Oil Tax Act. My colleague Kogler has already said that, unlike the committee, we have been able to agree to this. Mr Schultes, I am a little surprised at the fact that in your remarks you have always spoken only of the'mixing with cars'. – Especially in the field of biogenic fuels, there is an enormously broad scope of application in agriculture. That is also the point why we believe that measures submitted so far are too short or too little to go into the depths. I would like to ask you a few specific questions, and we have also prepared a request for them. From our point of view, it is necessary to make a differentiation between the individual biogenic fuels mentioned here. They all know that there has been a long debate on the subject of “biodiesel” – under quotation marks – about rape methyl esters, where rapes are produced and then “beaded” with methanol to Rapsmethylester, this culture is limited from cultivation, precisely because of the result of the result. If we wanted to expand this production, we would be more dependent on imports, because the Austrian farmers were not yet prepared to grow it to the necessary extent. It is therefore very important to develop ecologically oriented forms of production, to address innovations in this area. Keywords: It is a matter which you, Mr Schultes, have repeatedly addressed, but I have done so in your speech today. In any case, this is also an opportunity to produce ethanol based on sugar or even to go further in innovation, in technology development, namely to use whole plants and produce bio-fuels. – A differentiated system is therefore necessary, which is of course not laid down in the Mineral Oil Tax Act. In any case, we are very interested in furthering such a system. A particular concern in this context is also the closure of regional cycles. Ladies and gentlemen, it makes sense for renewable raw materials produced in a region to be processed there as bio-fuels and finally to be used in this region, especially when it comes to ecologically sensitive applications. I am thinking, above all, of shipping, of nature reserves, of the forest et cetera. So these are areas where it is possible to deal exclusively with vegetable oils, with vegetable fuels without technological change. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a corresponding motion for a resolution by Mr Kogler, Mr Pirklhuber, Mr President, concerning targeted measures to strengthen the role of Austrian organic farming in the context of biogenic fuels. I would now like to give you the most important passages of this report. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21028	Mr Pirklhuber, you have to make this whole request.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21043	Good, Madam President. [[Quoted print version removed]] So it should be so, ladies and gentlemen, that the production of these biofuels will also be assessed accordingly and that the use as well as safe organic production will be improved. I am thinking, above all, of the fact that these plants are to be used in animal feeding. It is therefore important that there is something like an ecologically oriented overall context. In any case, we expect the Greens to develop such a one, and of course we would like your consent to do so, but it is a matter where details still need to be worked out. The aim is to ecologize agriculture...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21096	Mr Pirklhuber, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have not made this request in its entirety.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21114	Madam President, I now welcome my statement on the last paragraph of this motion for a resolution: “The Federal Government is also called upon to step up its efforts to reduce transport-related CO2 emissions by far in line with the far inadequate contribution of biogenic fuels to solving the climate and environmental problems of the transport sector, otherwise the reduction target is far missing.” Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, all measures to calm down transport, reduce CO2 emissions, especially when it comes to achieving better efficiency in the transport sector. In this sense, I hope, That you will also agree with this request, Mr Schultes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21155	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pirklhuber is sufficiently supported, has been properly put in stages and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21264	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Maier. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21282	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's so much the right thing to do. I would therefore like to refer to the amendments tabled by my group's colleagues, which is why I only want to deal with the amendments. Mrs Hagenhofer has just tabled an amendment, from which I read only one sentence: “Remember that there are currently no particle filters available for numerous diesel engine models and also 2006” – you hear: 2006! – ‘will not be available, the tax increase provided for in the Government template, which corresponds to the punishment of buyers of certain models of cars will not be implemented’. Now I ask for understanding, I refer briefly to the amendment tabled by Dr. stupidly brought in: “The supply of low-performance vehicles and particulate filters will not be significantly extended until the second half of 2005, so that for these vehicles the entry into force of the bonus/malus rule will be reached on 1. January 2006 will be postponed.” The zigzag course, which is immanent to the Social Democratic Party, becomes clear again when one hears the statements of Mr Kai Jan Krainer, for it turns out and even demands this regulation for trucks. I would have expected it in itself in this request, but the request assumes that there is no even 2006 in the passenger car. So I would ask you to rejoice first that we are much more courageous here and at the car already with 1. January 2006, namely for the lower classes, this bonus/malus rule provides.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21330	Next, Mrs Tamandl is speaking. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21349	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the debate, I would like to take a brief look at some of the amendments to the Federal Tax Code. It is very gratifying that in the future all self-assessment charges can be paid at a financial office and a financial office is responsible for them. It was true so far that, for example, turnover tax and wage-dependent taxes had jurisdiction at two different financial offices. Now it is not only better for entrepreneurs, but also, of course, a significant administrative simplification. In addition, due to the reduction in taxes from 2005, which is nevertheless significant, it has also occurred that tax morality is increased by various measures, such as the extension of the period in the interest rate, which now takes into account the period of external audits, the external audit rhythm of four years, and also the slight increase in the interest rate of payment and suspension, which, as I believe, also makes a significant contribution to tax recovery. Of course, it would be desirable if the financial vocations introduced by companies, but also by self-employed taxpayers, were to be dealt with more quickly. In fact, the suspension interest would be affected: On the one hand, they might not have been, and on the other hand, they would be much less. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21385	Next, Mr Neudeck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21403	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! It is all said on this subject, but not yet by everyone. In order to amend the standard consumption levy, the previous speakers have already given a brief opinion. I believe that the introduction of the fuel particle filter for diesel vehicles is a positive measure. We have decided to shorten the EU period scheduled for 2008. It is particularly gratifying that the criticism of the automotive industry and the car dealer that the vehicles in the area under 80 KW are not yet equipped with this diesel particle filter has led the government parties to decide – and the opposition has signaled approval – that this by date 1. ==References====External links== diesel vehicles have an increasing share of the total number of vehicles in Austria. In the past this was due to the farmers, now it is already modern to drive diesel. Before the diesel such a holy cow as the 13th and 14th. We will have to take measures here to reduce this harmful fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21434	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft Amendment Act 2004 in 734 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have been silent, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Principal, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment. In addition, Mr Matznetter, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Matznetter. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned and the request for separate vote, in accordance with the legislative system, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Matznetter, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment to Article I(3) and (9). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We now proceed to a separate vote on Article I, points 2, 5, 6, 10, 13, 21 and 22, as amended by the Committee's report. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I now leave the remaining parts of Article I, not yet agreed, in 734 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, ladies and gentlemen. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule II in 734 of the Supplements, taking into account the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, ladies and gentlemen. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I now put to the vote the amendment tabled by Mr Matznetter, colleagues, on Rule XII(2). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall therefore proceed to a separate vote on the remaining parts of Article XII in 734 of the Supplements, taking into account the additional request made by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, ladies and gentlemen. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall also vote separately on Articles XIV and XV points 5 and 6 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I now put a separate vote on Rule XVI in 734 of the Supplements, as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Stummvoll, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, ladies and gentlemen. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall also vote separately on Articles XVII, XIX and XXII as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in 734 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, ladies and gentlemen. In the event of consent, I would like to ask for a sign of this kind. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a similar sign. – This is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues, on further measures against the fine dust pollution caused by diesel vehicles in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on targeted measures to strengthen the role of Austrian organic farming in the context of biogenic fuels. I would also ask the ladies and gentlemen, in the event of approval, to give a sign of this kind. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law on the sale of unmovable federal assets, together with the title and receipt in 642 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this draft law for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also unanimous, and the draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 15. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (644, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which overruns of expenditure approaches of Appendix I to the Federal Finance Act 2004 are approved (Bundesfinanzgesetz 2004 – BÜG 2004) (748 d.b.) 16. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (645, e.g._Other Organiser Amendment of the Federal Finance Act 2004 (749 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21638	We now come to the items 15 and 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I therefore open the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21668	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A budget breach law or a change to the federal financial law are usually on the agenda, which is not a major problem. But if it comes from this government when it comes from Minister Grasser, all the warning signals shine. Why is that so? – Because the way from the self-representation to the budget is a very short one and because a announced budget deficit of 3.5 billion suddenly comes to 1.5 billion. This is an increase of almost 40 percent, ladies and gentlemen! This also means an increase of 1.5 to 1.9 percent of the gross domestic product. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] In this context, we must also ask the question: Where is this budget hole, the unknown being? What does Grasser do to stop this hole? What money acquisition actions does he initiate? – He has introduced the health tax in the form of increased self retention. He is currently thinking about the introduction of a drinking tax, an incredible burden for the people in the hospitality industry who have already paid very badly. He also sends out tax warrants, but not to large businesses, but to the really small businesses that work hard on the money. Here again, too, there is a very unfair policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: What is that...?]] It makes a very bad law on the increase in the investment premium. [[Abg. Wittauer: A tax recovery is a tax sinister!]] This has led to very high outflows from the budget. And what happens to it? – It can be seen again that Minister of Finance Grasser also works very diletantic in budgetary policy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What really hits the barrel is an approach to the budget breach law. While the money is being removed from the bag around Austria, the Federal Government's propaganda budget increases by a third, from €3 million to €4 million. This is a true scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This also shows, ladies and gentlemen, that there is obviously a need to make massive propaganda in order to make people taste a non-existent tax reform or pension reform. I can only say that there is a clear link between budgetary deviation and propaganda budget: The higher the deviation, the higher the propaganda budget of this government. We Socialists do not participate in this deception game. That is why we will vote against these two laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21731	The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21753	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My esteemed previous speaker Mr Moser meant if this government did something, the warning lights would shine. I understand that if you put up the party glasses, as he obviously does, because then you simply don't want to see the excellent budget figures, the facts, the results! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Obviously he is there a little blinded by the difficulties of his red-green friends in the government in Germany. Warning lights could shine there! Because when we talk about point landings As far as the budget is concerned, we know that in the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder]] I am not pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that the disaster is perfect if we are constantly to be seen as a chronic deficit sinter in the EU, while, unlike in the past, we, ladies and gentlemen, are considered to be quite exemplary and can also show our success in the EU. You can still light things so critically! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Obviously, it is difficult for the opposition to recognise some successes. It is nice to see that the budget figures here – as in recent years – can be compared to a point landing! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Please welcome it, ladies and gentlemen, and be a little positive, as a good mood is important for the economic climate and thus also for future budget success.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21825	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Do you stay with the 6 minutes, or do you want to talk less long? [[Abg. May. Kogler: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 4 minutes!]] – Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21859	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I do not understand, Mr Auer: Where do you see world setting moods again? [[Abg. Wittauer:... Get some air! This time-sin is getting really nervous!]] The previous votes have shown that there are always efforts and explanations on how to proceed in a consensual manner. But if you want to keep it that way, perhaps you too are a victim of this government propaganda, and then I would also think that the global downturn mood is appropriate. [[Abg. Wittauer:... on the topic nothing said yet!]] It is, however, appropriate to the item on the agenda, which is being negotiated here under one. [[Abg. Wittauer: You haven't said anything about the topic yet! Just take a breath!]] I'll just say something on the subject. The issue is that the Federal Government can expand its so-called information campaign from €3 million to €4 million – it's funny that this is actually happening in such legislative passages; after all, we have received information. We have even received information from the Secretary of State – I believe you have given us – that teaser posters should be used here, or anything else. One million extra expenses for government propaganda and teaser posters, you have to imagine this somehow: “Relief for...”, next week: “all!” – Just as wrong as before; if you just put a teaser in between, it won’t get better, but costs another 1 million €! I think that's incredible, I can only tell you. And now this is a wonderful match for the overall system; we have to reflect on the 2004 budget, Mr Auer, when it comes to these excesses. The fact that we dealt with the 2003 Federal Accounts in the Committee was one thing. Yes, okay, that was a relatively differentiated debate, where we heard and exchanged arguments like that. But if you want to defend it as a point landing, that the budget deficit should be almost twice as high as originally preliminated, then I don't understand you anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I think you can...!]] They have always valued these distinctions and were in fact very precise in the argumentation. This story is anything but precise, and you can't talk about point landing there anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: A scatter bomb!]] Everything just disappears in the black hole. I told you anyway, because you're always interested in this: The really biggest debt accumulations – if you calculate them and adjusted them accordingly with the inflation data – were carried out among ÖVP ministers, under ÖVP government members and also under ÖVP delegates here in the house. For example, Mr Stumpfully – because you have always been so interested in this – among the Members has clearly made the race the biggest debt indicator. And on the government bank? – See, it is the Federal Chancellor! A piece of art, if he has been in the government for so long; he should only remember it. We've taken this into account. But now you come and explain to us: a point landing. – A couple of billions of foot, but “pointed”! Don't be angry with me. They will not be surprised that we do not agree to these excesses under such conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21951	Mr Matznetter spoke on an actual correction. I remind him of the Rules of Procedure: Facts against facts, no valuations.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e21973	Mr President. Member of the European Parliament Auer claimed here that the budget execution was a “point landing”. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Right!]] I'm actually allowed to correct: A point is a geometric figure without extension. As such, a 2004 budget implementation, which shows the double deficit, i.e. 1.3 instead of 0.7 percent, cannot be identified.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22013	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22032	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think we agree that even at your time, when you still put the Minister of Finance, there has been budgetary overrun laws, that this is nothing new, and that needs make it necessary to provide for budget overruns in a bill. In principle, we also discussed in the Committee on Budgets that the 2003 financial report was a point landing in the sense of what this Federal Government has done, a reduction in total debt while at the same time affecting the economy through very substantial economic recovery packages. This leads to more growth, which leads to a very moderate unemployment rate compared to all European countries. As a result, inflation remains low, the economic recovery packages also have a positive impact on growth. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It is therefore not supposed to break out from your side of grief and not to be painted on the wall even by far a horror scenario.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22062	Now, Mr. State Secretary Dr. Finz is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22080	Mr President. High house! To recapture the relationships: What's this about? We now have a budget overrun law as an object in which – please, the sum of the excesses, all the excesses are combined 39 million € – is 39 million, and these 39 million € are all covered, of course. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: A point landing!]] The German Federal Finance Act Novelle is also only about re-transmissions, since two positions are increased by € 1 million each. What you have said, Mr Moser, with the billions, applies only to the case that the revenue is left behind so that we can receive the corresponding loans. But this is a fact that has not yet occurred at all. So that's just a reserve position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22118	The next word is that of Mr Gartlehner. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22136	Mr Finz has already mentioned it: It is just a preventive measure in case... – But it seems to be expected secretly that the budget that is now to be decided will not be enough. It's not a miracle either. The point extends, as it were, with rapid speed and square dimensions. Of course, it is to be feared that this budget deficit will grow even further and stronger next year than it has already grown. The arguments why we don't vote have essentially heard you. There are these interception rents or rents that are going to hit. In addition, although we have not been presented in plenary today but in committee, there are advances in the area of military expenditure of €70 million, also likely for these dear interception hunters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] – Dear friend Walter, this is really hard for you today. [[in the direction of the Abg. Murauer]] As has been said, all these points are against it, and that is why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22176	The next speaker is Dr. Maier. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit – or just one? Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Dr. Maier: (on the way to the speaker's desk) One and a half!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22209	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! In 90 seconds I would just like to point out that in this package there is a wealth of things that are crazyly exciting. [[Abg. Oils: Aha, “stressing ” now means that!]] I am particularly pleased that the increased passenger traffic, Mr. Co., has made additional resources necessary for airport surveillance at Schwechat Airport. On this occasion I would like to point out that we, the owners of the airport GesmbH in Vienna, should also talk about how the airport charges are, in order to remain competitive with any other competitors. [[Abg. Oils: Do you want to change the color?]] Let me conclude by saying, Mr President, that I am delighted that the Austrian genome research programme will be spent at €8.4 million.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22259	The last speaker is Mrs Lentsch. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22277	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The budget law necessary for 2004 actually bears the wrong name, as we heard from the Secretary of State earlier, because in fact the budget is not exceeded, but it is only reversed. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Incredible!]] It amounts to €39 million more, for example, for a new financial academy, for an apprenticeship offensive or for the reconstruction of Parliament and for many other important things. Therefore, funds are saved or more taken at other places than planned. With this, the Federal Government once again proves that it is holding back to the budget framework this year, and thus also shows that it is a reliable partner of the economy. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we could stand there much better if we did not have the debts of the past. When the SPÖ took over the Ministry of Finance in 1970, there was a budget surplus and practically no government debt – and 30 years later, when the Federal Government regained the financial resource, the debt amounted to 60 percent of GDP. This has to be broken on the tongue first, and all Austrians now have to pay it back. That's so simple. Many finance ministers, many SPÖ finance ministers, could have decided on these reforms, which we have now decided, in much better circumstances, but unfortunately they have not done so. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that is why the SPÖ has also been selected, because people outside knew that it can't continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22312	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft budget law 2004 and the title and receipt in 748 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law finds the majority and is therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law will also be approved by the House at the third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Federal Finance Act for 2004, 5. BFG-Novelle 2004, including title and entry in 749 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft law in third reading, I ask for a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. 17. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (626, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a Federal Act on the integrated prevention and reduction of emissions from steam boilers (Emissions Protection Act for boilers – EC-K) (771 d.b.) 18. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (651 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Act on the Statistical Collection of Goods (Trade Statistics Act 1995 – HStG 1995) (772 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22391	We now come to points 17 and 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Sburny has spoken. Your welcome time is really 5 minutes? [[Abg. Sburny: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Maybe!]] – Voluntary time limit: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22425	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can't believe that this matter is being handled here at this time. Nevertheless, it is a matter which is not entirely insignificant, and you will have to admit to me that I am doing at least those explanations here that justify why we will not agree to this law, at least as far as the Emissions Protection Act for boiler plants in the Novellle 2004 is concerned. This law is actually a novel of the Air Re Content Act for boilers, and it implements four EU directives into national law. This is remarkable in that all four directives should have been implemented for a long time – between 1995 and 1999 at the latest – but none of the four directives have yet been transposed. On the one hand, it concerns the directive on integrated pollution prevention and reduction, two Directives on the limitation of pollution emissions from large combustion plants and the so-called Seveso II Directive, the Directive on the control of hazards in the event of serious accidents with hazardous substances. All four had to be implemented by 1999 at the latest and were not. Accordingly, there are four proceedings for infringement by the EU, two of which have already been condemned by Austria and two cases have been filed. [[Abg. Wittauer: Yes, but small!]] The full implementation of these directives would require a new Air Re Content Act for boilers, while the implementation is still unclear. In other words, Austria is in a dramatic way in terms of environmental protection and air pollution, as we simply cannot accept it. It is totally incomprehensible why these directives were not implemented earlier and why the new Air Re Content Regulation is still pending. Instead, there is a transitional clause, which shows only one thing, namely that the government still does not want to put this new Air Re Content Regulation on the table at last, because this transitional clause only states that the minimum standards must be complied with in accordance with the old directive. Obviously you do not make any institutions to implement it in a correct way. In addition, there are new legislative changes which are a significant step backwards from the point of view of environmental protection. For example, the limit value for a mandatory emission declaration on emissions behaviour for plants operated by heating oil, commercial liquefied gas and natural gas is increased. It is only about the operation of fossil fuels, and here you put the limit of 2 megawatts up to 10 megawatts, that is, it is quite a deterioration in the sense of environmental protection. That's just a small example, with more I don't want to torment you at this time of day. From our point of view, a rapid regulation would be necessary which lays down the limit values and measurement procedures according to the latest state of the art and not only takes on obsolete requirements. Overall, it must be said that it is a blamage that the Austrian government is still unable to guarantee correct implementation, and for this reason we will not agree to this legislative change.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22462	Now, Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian His speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22480	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, together with the Emissions Protection Act for boiler plants and the Trade Statist Law, we should also treat the Eco electricity Act in this place in a block. [[Abg. Sburny: Thank God that this is not being treated!]] I am very sorry that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has not succeeded in establishing a consensus today, which would have guaranteed a necessary constitutional majority. Therefore, because we had the opportunity to ensure the financing of the eco-electric power plants – including new eco-electric power plants – for years to come, we also had the opportunity to ensure an increase in funding. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] It is a shame that the Social Democratic Party has not been able to give its approval. [[Abg. Sburny: I'm lucky they scratched the curve in time!]] However, I hope that the insight will still come to mind that this law has given us a good opportunity to establish stability for plant operators and safety. I do not give up hope in this direction and invite you to do so with us on the next occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22543	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22562	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You have to see that with the Ecostrom Act a little more differentiated. It has been shown during the negotiations that there was also a very great prepotence to be observed here by simply taking back commitments. It is not a single government, and in this case it needs a two-thirds majority. This is a prerequisite for meeting the negotiating partner accordingly. I think that's an important point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the two existing laws, in particular the Emissions Protection Act: We will agree to this law, although there has been this delay of time and although some procedures are open because we believe that there is an improvement in some areas. There is a significant improvement in total with some limit values. There is the extension that new installations are taken into account. There is a clear technical improvement. There is also an improvement in the direction that fewer accidents can be expected. And, above all, there is also an improvement in competition with regard to the reviews. There is no longer only one large institution, but there is also the possibility that civil engineers can act accordingly and also offer, which will make the economy as a whole and in particular also workers better. This is actually the reason why we will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22595	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Speech time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22613	Mr President. Federal Minister! Normally, we do not speak of laws that are not on the agenda, but the Social Democrats will have to live by them, which prevent them from having a proper regime for the future expansion of renewable energy. You have lost this opportunity for at least today and for this year. I regret this extremely, and I strongly reject it, of course, when Mr Moser says that it would have been a prepotence. Don't do that! There have been concessions made, there was a welcome from the government parties, but you must finally know what you are doing, and it fits your zigzag course. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: For they do not know what they do!]] In the past, there were other times when it was still possible to see reasonable considerations as the basis for a common cause and to implement them. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Now on the implementation of the EU Directives and on the Emissions Protection Act for boiler plants: It's right that there are procedures. It is true that there are gaps in the current legislation. The fact that a new emission protection law for boilers is now being adopted instead of a novice of the Air Re Content Act for boilers depends on the integrated environmental approach of the Federal Government and the government parties in which it is not only about air emissions, but also those pollutants that affect the soil and water. In addition, it should be noted that Austria does not just do what the EU has just prescribed, especially with regard to emissions, but, right, the limit values are even lower, and this can be documented accordingly. [[Abg. Oillingers: But less!]] For example, pollutant emissions in the field of power plants decreased by 67 percent from 1990 to 2003. When I calculate the emission reductions in power plants, refineries and industry, minus 54 percent are out. That is, as I mean, a quite acceptable scale. Similarly, there is a corresponding reduction in nitrogen oxides and of course also in dust. In dust, this reduction is 42 percent. So as bad as the opposition parties always pretended, we are truly not. We can be a little proud of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22663	Mr Bartenstein is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22682	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are even significantly better than that claimed by the opposition. On the topic of Emissions Protection Act for boiler plants: It is not right for us to have been condemned in four cases, but there is an ECJ's knowledge. There was a deadline set, and we follow it. Nor is it right that any emission limits have been set upwards, ladies and gentlemen Sburny, but that is a threshold. That's a certain difference. The threshold is set from 2 megawatts to 10 megawatts, with the European Union providing this test only for boiler services of 50 megawatts. High house! On the topic of eco electricity law: I too regret that. If Mr Moser speaks of prepotence, I would like to speak of inconsistency, namely the inconsistency of social democracy, which a week ago spoke of a fundamental agreement in the field of eco-electrics, but which, this morning, did not want to know anything about it. This indirectly leads to the disadvantage that for new plants, which reach the 31st century. This year, it is likely that a certain gap will arise in terms of import tariffs. I hope not too long, but the necessary coordination process with ministries and countries is more complex. We have our experiences.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22715	The next speaker is Mr Eder. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22733	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say very briefly that, as far as the Ecostrom Act is concerned, I do not see the shimmer of hope disappear completely. We... is – as we have done in the Committee – a delay in matter, and I believe that, if we manage to achieve a reasonable balance within the whole area of eco electricity, including the energy situation and the output situation, we will be able to take up this issue again in January or February next year. We'll definitely keep an eye on this. We are, of course, still ready to have talks on this. In addition to what has already been said, to the Emissions Protection Act, I can only note that there is in principle also the possibility that, in addition to the Technical Monitoring Association, civil engineering audits will also take place in the future. This is initially to be considered with a certain scepticism, but I believe that it is also reasonable to open up this possibility. I believe that the whole of the law is in line with the fact that the situation has been facilitated by the smaller installations, but the focus is on large plants anyway. It is therefore necessary to focus on this and to take more stringent action in large-scale installations, but to do so in the case of small-scale installations, as now provided for in the draft law. I have to say here that my group will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22773	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22791	Mr President. Minister! High house! So it's not strange, it's already habit: For the Social Democrats, I thought that they might agree, and now they actually agree – thank you! – that's probably because it's a good law. With the Greens, I know from the outset that they do not agree with environmental legislation. [[Abg. Brosz: This is not an environmental law!]] They do not agree with integrated prevention and reduction of emissions from steam boilers. It's incredible that greens can't agree. So we liberals can do it with full heart. [[Abg. Brosz: Can you spell the word environment?]] Let's see how it was today! It has been said today by Mrs Glavischnig that we would not implement a lot in the environment. I admit: We needed a little too long because we wanted to make a bad law, but for that we overfilled it, over it we filled it. [[Abg. Oils: ‘ Overcrowded ’?]] That's a great thing! Think about it! To vote against is a little too little, one must also be for something, for the environment in particular. – We make good environmental laws, you can believe me. [[Abg. Sburny: You can see that too!]] When I take the eco electricity law, the heart hurts me very much. 17 million €, which means – apparently it's no one in here aware; I don't know if the greens have thought about it – over 1.3 billion total volume, and a total volume of 1.3 billion is not little. If new projects, which are yes, I say, are also important, therefore, because you do not agree with the opposition now, then the project promoters will have to thank you, not us. We've done everything we can to get a good eco electricity law on track. “Thank you,” Green! They have done something bad to the environment. We will make something better for the environment!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22893	Mr Oberhaidinger has now come to speak. He also speaks for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22911	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Ecostrom Act has been addressed here as often as it actually is on the agenda. This is not the case, and that for really good reasons: At the end of last week, Friday, it actually looked as if we agreed with the government parties on a sensible, truly ecologically oriented and economically acceptable eco electricity law. On Monday, the world already looked quite different. It was an expert round. The editorial disagreements should have been discussed so far among experts that on Tuesday we should have really only had to deal with the political content and the cracking points. On Tuesday it also looked completely different for the political round. It has begun to renegotiate content already promised on Friday or Thursday in the previous week and beyond... [[Abg. Head: That's great!]] That's exactly what I'm saying, Mr Karlheinz Kopf. Four of my co-negotiators have heard this as I say, and so we have kept it and passed it on. [[Abg. Head: That's immense what you're saying here!]] On Tuesday, the outcome of the negotiations was so poor that it would simply not have been reasonable to put this item on today's agenda. I'm sorry, too, that something really could have come out. [[Abg. Olympians: Hate!]] But, as Mr Eder has just said, it is not every day of the evening. If the government parties make good proposals, we will be able to discuss them further in the new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22975	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Dr. Bauer. He also speaks for 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e22993	Mr President. Federal Minister! I think it has been sufficiently explained: Negotiations continue, and I also hope that an eco electricity law, which deserves this name and which is important for the future of Austria, will emerge. But I would like to make a comment to Mrs Lentsch because she described how the debt ratio has developed positively and how it is so fantastic. The fact is, Mrs Colleague, that 2004 64.2 and 2005 account for 63.6 percent, which truly does not correspond to the 60 percent mentioned here. As far as the Emissions Protection Act for boilers is concerned, we are going along because it actually represents an improvement compared to the previous regulations. But if the Federal Minister says that we are better than the others, I would like to add: We are still better in many areas, because from a different legislative period there is still a lot to do. But in fact it is so that We have actually come to a follow-up role from a pioneering role in Europe. Again and again, as is the case with this law, we have to say, Mr Commissioner, that it is only an adaptation to the EU directive. As in this case, a procedure is already under way against us, because adaptation to the EU directive has not taken place. There is really no way to say that you are still in the position of an environmental leader if you make the necessary adjustments in the wake, so to speak. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23033	The last speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. He's talking for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23051	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We will agree to these legislative proposals, which is already known, but I would like to mention to the Patent Act that we will be very careful in considering the aberration of the rules governing the management positions, because we have heard several times that the independence of the Patent Office in Vienna could suffer. As you can hear, the European Patent Office in Munich is already very strongly influenced by lobbyists of the large companies, and you really have to watch and see that not the same happens in Austria. I know this won't disturb one or the other here, but I think in the interests of inventors in Austria it would of course be very positive and very important that there is still correctness. Ladies and gentlemen! I also know the patent office personally, and it is really still an office in the classical sense. For this reason it is also good and reasonable that a fresh wind is brought in. In this sense, we support this legal measure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23078	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur did not agree with the conclusion. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law establishing a federal law on the integrated prevention and reduction of emissions from steam boilers, including the title and entry into 626 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is also in favour of this draft law in third reading, I would ask for a corresponding sign. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. The third reading has taken place. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Federal Act on the Statistical Collection of Goods, together with the title and receipt in 651 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This draft law is adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft law in third reading, I would ask him to give an appropriate sign. – This draft law will also be adopted unanimously at third reading. 19. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 477/A by Mr Mag. Walter Tancsits, Sigisbert Dolinschek, colleagues on a federal law amending the Labour Market Policy Finance Act (773 d.b.) 20. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (664, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Law on Working Time and the Labour Peace Act (774 d.b.) 21. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (547, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Land Labor Act 1984 (775 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23177	We now come to points 19 to 21 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Riepl was the first Member to speak. He wishes to speak for two minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23201	High house! First of all, on the agenda item 19 concerning the amendment of the Labour Market Policy Finance Act: It is intended to remain the malus obligation of the service providers in the event of the termination of the employment relationship of workers. I think that's good, that's why we're going to agree. TOP 20 is the draft law on working time law and labour rest law. An attempt is being made to implement the European Union Working Time Directive for air carriers' flying personnel. There is no agreement of the Socialist Group. The implementation of the EU directive is only part of what we mean. The right to be relocated in the EU Directive in the event of health problems – this is about night work – is not covered by the Working Time Act. I refer to clause 4 of the EU Directive. The clause 8 is also not implemented from our point of view. This is about a uniform distribution of working time. This is missing in this government proposal. While the Working Time Act should apply to flying staff, there is no clear regulation of working hours and rest periods. It is provided that such a scheme is subject to a discretionary approval at the request of the employer concerned. This is the first time that we have been In other words, the employer, i.e. the airline, says what it wants to do, the authority issues a corresponding notice, the employee then learns when to work and when to rest. A party position is not foreseen, there is virtually zero co-determination. The economic interests have priority, the interests of workers are subordinate, as has so often been the case with the legislation of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whether that does not violate Community law, the Employment Framework Directive, will show the future, ladies and gentlemen. In any case, we believe that there are violations. We have already said in the Committee that working time arrangements are to be designed in such a way that they are at least kept in the law that, as in this case, this is not regulated by decision and regulation. We do not want that, and we will not accept it either.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23252	Now, Mr Magz, I would like to say a few words about Mr Magz. Tancsits. His speaking time is also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23271	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Riepl did not reveal to us the point in the Working Time Act, namely that it is only an EU-compliant transfer of a practice and legislation that we will of course continue for decades, to the satisfaction of all parties involved and of the small social partners in the field of aviation companies. [[Abg. Oils: A bad practice!]] I am pleased, however, that we are given the consent to the amendment of the Labour Market Policy Finance Act. The issue is that we do not transfer into pension funding, as requested by the debate on pensions, new provisions on the protection of the labour market, which are necessary for older workers, but rather that we put the problems at the root, that I cannot be pushed into the corridor board, but that, of course, I must continue to be treated like any other employee, and that the bonus and malus payment of the service provider remains above the 62. Year of life is valid. [[Abg. Oils: “At the root ”?]] Of course, this is not all, but an essential contribution from the legislator to a new culture of retention, which we wish to see it continue to take place in our economic and working lives.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23319	Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Five minutes, right? [[Abg. Olympians: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Sure! At least!]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23352	It is only now that I understand why these laws are being treated so late, because they are really laws, novellings that should better be hidden. [[Abg. Dolinschek: They are adaptation laws!]] Bad adaptation laws! Well, we agree with the extension of the malus, but a really good solution is not that. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: What happened to you? Just because it's so late?]] Otherwise, it is in the Working Time Act and the Labour Peace Act. This is really an unbearable bad adjustment, and it does not benefit you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tancsits, if you say: It's always been like that! We had one or two or three airlines in Austria – and I said that in committee – 20 years ago. In the meantime, we have much more, and if each airline has its own law on working time and working time, which is laid down by regulation, I must say: No thanks, it can't be! Third point: Okay, adjustments to the Land Labor Act. Just leave me the note: What is the country labour law for in this form at all? Do we need our own right for the agricultural workers? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Yes!]] Well, Mr Dolinschek doesn't know exactly, either, I don't. But we are adapting what should have been adapted years ago. That's it, too. So it's good that it's being negotiated at such a later hour, because it's really not doing anything good.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23424	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23443	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Mr Oellinger! With regard to this proposal 477/A, which is subject to the amendment of the Labour Market Policy Financing Act, we are of the opinion. This proposal sets out an important measure. The aim is to prevent the labour market from being pushed away from the labour market. The possibility of retiring at the corridor board from free pieces and not with compulsion is also guaranteed. This has not yet been possible, but is very important with regard to pension height, surcharges and surcharges. Now, on the government template, which amends the working time law and the labour rest law, in which it concerns employees of airlines, a few remarks. This is an EU-wide system that is now being adopted. We create a law in Austria that applies to all the airlines that exist in Austria. In principle, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation was there, and the social partners have not yet discussed this at all. We have now adopted a regulation that has long been due. As far as the country labour law is concerned, Mr Oellinger and ladies and gentlemen, I must say: This adjustment is simply necessary, because after we have a country labour law in which the adjustment that took place between workers and employees at the time has not been implemented, we must now also implement it, and that is what happens with it. Even if it is decided at a later hour: These are important measures!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23476	Now, Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23494	Mr President. Thank you, High House, for the obviously broad consent to the re-regulation of the Malus, which will also apply and be due if the possibility of starting a corridor board will be given in itself. [[Abg. Oillinger: Don't overinterpret it! A lukewarm consent!]] Breit or lukewarm, at least consent. Thank you very much, honourable Member. On the subject of working time and flying staff, the following is already noted: Firstly, this is the status quo, Mr Riepl, which is based on a modest system. Secondly, It would not be appropriate to integrate this into our working time law now, because a regulation of the European Parliament is in place and we are now doing things that we probably need to change again in a year. Thirdly, It is about a number of improvements that can nevertheless enter into force for the flying staff. Fourth: The German system is quite analogous, that is, the opposite of what you have said, it is not a regulation against workers in the field of flying staff, but rather a regulation for workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23537	The next speaker is Mr Leutner. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23555	Mr President. Minister! High house! We have here today, among other things, a change to the Land Labor Act on decision-making. Unfortunately, in this context, the provisions of the Law on Labour Law, which is rightly controversial, are also being implemented. At that time it was about the approximation of workers to employees, but this law was not an action “fairness”, ladies and gentlemen. An overall assessment of this law shows that the measures contained therein have a clear imbalance at the expense of the workers. The only significant improvement, compensation in the case of illness, is that there are serious disadvantages, the loss of holiday compensation and the search for a post at the time of self-announcement for all employees. Thus, it was not only a matter of harmonizing the workers to the employees, but in reality it was also a massive redistribution in favour of the companies, where workers not only pay for the modest benefits in the payment of compensation themselves, but also suffer additional financial losses. Overall, in 2000 they lost 3 billion schilling under the overall economic line. That's what the situation looks like! I therefore see no reason to transfer the worsening provisions of the Labour Law Change Act, especially when it comes to holiday allowances, into country labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23592	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23610	Ladies and gentlemen! I too am referring to the special arrangements for the flying staff; this seems to be very important to us all. We fly here to Vienna, to our workplace. It is about creating an EU-compliant directive. We are setting up a special scheme here, while maintaining the existing system of moderate fixing of maximum working hours and minimum rest. There are also special situations due to the shifts in time. I do not understand why, on the part of the opposition – you have already done so very excitedly in the committee – you are so negative. [[Abg. Silhavy: Not excited! We wanted to inform you!]] You could have done all of this at the time when you were responsible in this area. You could have changed it. It's been like that since then. [[Abg. Silhavy: The minister is juicy! That is his case, the implementation of directives!]] There are certainly very specific measures here: 96 calendar days without work per year or at least seven days of work per month and also the obligation to notify these calendar days without work at least ten days in advance. - That's very concrete. Otherwise, there are no negative effects, but quite the contrary: There are improvements in the possibilities of efficient measures by the labour inspectorate. That too, I think, is a positive aspect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23660	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is now speaking. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23678	Mr President. Minister! High house! The amendment to the Law on Working Time and the Law on Labour Peace shows once again how half-hearted the ladies and gentlemen adopt laws on the rights and protection of workers. It is also very clear that once again you do not implement an EU directive to a minimum and parts of it – that has already been mentioned by Mr Riepl – when it comes to the rights and protection of workers. It is also very clear that when implementing EU directives, when it comes to the rights and protection of workers, you can take a lot of time. This novel, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition parties, would have already been on 31 December. December 2003, you have to be implemented, so you've been sloppy for over a year! Despite the many times you had, so that you could actually assume that it would be a proper law, this EU directive is unfortunately only very inadequately fulfilled. I would just like to address a single point that is not acceptable to us – Mr Riepl has already mentioned it – and that is the limitation of working time and the setting of rest periods. This can be done without further legal determination and outside working time legislation on the basis of a decision, on the basis of a single employer's proposal and without employee co-determination. This is unacceptable for us! We would have liked that the aspects of worker protection be treated as centrally as the interests of the service provider. We would have wished that there would be uniform legal provisions for the definition of the flight, stress and rest time scheme, because then the rights and protection of workers would be taken into account and then there would be no risk that these would be short-lived in the working day and should be put behind the service providers' interests once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23728	The next speaker is Mr Walch. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23746	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! On behalf of Mr Leutner, on his criticism of the country labour law or on the approximation of workers to employees, it is said: You have not achieved equality for 30 years by the trade union. [[Abg. Silhavy: Neither do you!]] We've made the payment. The union would now be on the train to do the rest of the thing, such as the paid Fridays and much more. Good night, union!, I say there. Please do something at last, don't just make yourself here and not just criticize everything we do! If we are talking about the approximation of agricultural workers, we must also say what the construction-wood trade union has taken away from the construction workers this year. You have given your consent to the changeover money – day money! The trade union has agreed to do so, and this has taken away what we give from the government to the workers in the construction industry, that is, the more than €500 to 700 through the tax reform, by removing day money for every short Friday and for holidays that fall on a working day. I can only say: If you sit in the glasshouse, don't throw stones! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I think that very positive is the corridor board, the protection of older workers. This is not an anti-employee law, it is a worker-friendly law. Please read through before and then create and criticize here – or praise. If you agree, you won't be criticized by me anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23787	The next speaker is Mr Schopf. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23805	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The equality, which has been announced and is now to be decided, Mr Max Walch, provides, among other things, that a number of social policy deterioration be decided upon by the government parties. Among other things, it will be decided that the holiday compensation will be abolished completely. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You don't believe that yourself!]] The holiday compensation will be abolished completely! Furthermore, the post-search agenda for agricultural workers is abolished in the case of workers' self-announcement. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: By self-proclaiming!]] – I said that! – There are at least 5,000 colleagues working in this area. We know that there are great difficulties in employment, especially in the field of agricultural enterprises, and that many workers are repeatedly forced – for this I could bring many examples – to submit the notice of termination. This amendment also repeals the ban on women's night work; the budget day for women is abolished – on the grounds that there is no gender-neutral regime, so it is necessary to abolish this budgetary day. It would be necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to make other arrangements. One could, for example, introduce a budget day – especially in the age of equality – for men who run a household, so that it is also available for a budget day during a certain period of time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the context of the abolition of the women's night work ban, it should also be stressed that no protection mechanisms are introduced, although many other regulations, in particular a number of collective agreements, provide for such. Since this is not the case with this novel, we cannot give our assent here.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23886	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Winkler. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23905	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! I do not want to address polemic statements, but only to say that it is clear that the amendments to be adopted today to the Land Labor Act are reasonable and acceptable compromises, and I therefore seek your agreement. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That doesn't pay off either!]] In addition: Many regulations are EU-wide, many are positive – family hospice and more – things that need to be adapted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, there is a much more difficult problem in this context, which we may be able to solve together. I can now take advantage of the opportunity to address the problems of the Land Labor Act, which is by the way the only codified labour law, as the question has also been raised here: What about the whole thing? The Land Labor Act is the only service law that takes account of the individual needs of employment from the west to the east of our country! If you want to get rid of the SPÖ, I can only say: That would give you many colleagues a bear service! Now I would like to refer to a special feature of the Austrian federal constitution, namely the so-called principle of rocking. The naturally dynamic development of agriculture and forestry has not yet been taken into account with regard to the competence of land labour law for its employees. Therefore, we face the fundamental problem that there are many employees who have no training regulations, no professional status, no legal labour and social law regulations. It would therefore be high time to jointly find a solution for those servants who are, as it were, outside legal standards. I would ask for your support, because we could really do something for many colleagues. In the interests of the agricultural and forestry workers, I therefore seek, in accordance with positive rules, for these colleagues at least in the 21st century. ==References====External links== – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23941	The next speaker is Mr Keussnigg. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23960	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! The country labour law, which we are now dealing with, covers occupations that are characterised by hard physical work and where those in it are constantly threatened by latent health risks. Think, for example, of the forest workers who have been exposed for years, from the wind and the weather! In recent decades, agricultural and forestry workers have developed a very positive career, a very positive image: From post-war servants and girls, highly specialized, highly trained and socially well-respected professionals have become. A success story of the special kind! The harmonisation or adaptation of labour rights is also correct and important for these professions, the present carefully prepared bill is a contribution to this and, of course, it is our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e23987	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24005	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This government template, which amends the Land Labor Act, also deals with the adaptation or equality of parental leave law, the Holiday Directive. The reason for this is a infringement procedure, which the European Commission has sought against Austria. [[Abg. Oils: Again!]] I would just like to say that this is a continuation of what we decided in the Health Committee a few weeks ago. Very briefly: It is only about equality, there should be no preference for mothers or fathers. But, Mr Oellinger, you can work to ensure that there is not only a budget day for men, but that much more fathers go in Karenz.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24040	The last speaker is Mrs Marek. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24058	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, the Chambers of Agriculture are committed to the framework conditions of those people working in areas for which Austria is internationally known and for which Austria is a large part. I can only very much recommend you to watch a film on the homepage of the Austrian Chambers of Agricultural Workers, showing you with beautiful pictures of what the workers represented by Josef Winkler do and in what areas they do. By the way, as a women's politician, I should like to say that there are no differences in income between men and women in the area of the Chambers of Labour. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard here several times – and this from a professional point of view – where the problems facing the Chambers of Labour and the workers they represent in their daily work lie. President Josef Winkler is working tirelessly in the sense of the people he represents, for which I would like to thank him at this point. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] I very much hope that it will be possible to make positive changes, in the sense of those concerned, in relation to the clear responsibilities of the representatives of interests, but also in terms of professional status and working conditions. I'd like to be available for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24104	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. There is no final word on the part of the reporting. We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Labour Market Policy Financing Act, together with the title and receipt in 773 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to the draft law, I ask for a sign. – The consent shall be given unanimously at second reading. We shall immediately reach the third reading. Whoever agrees to this bill at third reading, I ask for a sign. – The third reading also gives unanimous approval. The draft law is therefore adopted. We shall also vote on the draft federal law, which amends the working time law and the labour rest law, together with the title and receipt in 774 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is given by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is also adopted by a majority at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Land Labor Act, including the title and receipt in 775 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Mr Silhavy, colleagues. I therefore put the draft law to the vote, taking into account the request for a separate vote. We shall be voting separately on paragraphs 1 to 7 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 9 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who agree to this to give a sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall be voting separately on paragraphs 11 to 14 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is also unanimously accepted. We shall also vote separately on paragraphs 17 to 40 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give them their consent. – This is unanimously accepted. The separate vote on points 43 to 45, as amended by the Committee's report, is now taking place. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall be voting separately on paragraphs 47 to 51 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft law in third reading, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 22. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (685, e.g. and 685 d.a._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Staff Act 1948, the Richterdienstsgesetz, the Land Teacher Service Law, the Land- and Forestry Law Land Teachers' Service Law, the Federal-Personal Representative Law, the Federal Employment Law 1989, the Federal Teachers' Law on Service and Forestry, the Law on the Service-Law, the Law on the Service-Law, the State Contracting Teachers' Law 1966, the Ordinance on Payments and Assistance, the Pensions Act 1965, the Bundesbahn-Pensionsgesetz, the Bundesbehörderten-Sozialplangesetz, the Federal Teachers' Law on Teachings, the Land Contracting Law 1966, the Land- and Forestry Law of the Land Contracting Contracting Law and the Teaching Practice Act (Dienstle-Novelle 2004) (767 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24237	We're now on the 22nd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate is being debated by Mrs Magistrate. Opened Stoisits. – Dobar vecer, honourable Member! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24263	Dobar vecer, gospod predsednik! Mr State Secretary! Good evening! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens will agree to the 2004 Service Law Novelle. I say in very short words why. In particular, I have reason to reason because there has been the opposite voting in the Committee. There was an intensive discussion in the Committee – I was unfortunately unable to take part in the Committee meeting – on the issue of the recognition of high school diplomas and the service disadvantage of high-school graduates vis-à-vis university graduates. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where is the colleague Glavischnig?]] [[Abg. Where are everyone?]] Our concerns about this will be expressed again today in an amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, and it will also be signalled by the second reading voting behaviour that the current solution, as contained in the 2004 Service Law Novelle, does not have our approval. [[Abg. Oils: Completely right!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of Abg. Oellinger)... was not in committee at all! ... don't know!]] However, unlike the Committee meeting on Friday last week, the following changes have now been made: There is a motion for a resolution tabled jointly by all four political groups in the National Council – Mr Neugebauer, who I believe will be speaking about will also argue and read it – and I believe that this motion for a resolution is a clear call to the Federal Government to close this gap that still exists. We hope that if there is a four-party request to the government, this will also be taken into account, although I would like to complain that the resolution does not contain a deadline. But we are also willing to swallow this crotch, because I do not want to say that a salary increase of 2.3 percent for public servants in Austria is a conclusion that is respectable – if I think of past years, where there have been very short-term salary accounts – and therefore our consent to the Service Law Novelle 2004. Thank you. Laku noc!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24361	The next speaker is Mr Neugebauer. His speaking time is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24379	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This Service Law Novelle 2004 is a collective law that amends a total of 18 laws. It is the result of a social partnership compromise between the Public Service Union and the Federal Government. As far as the general provisions are concerned, I shall refer to them as speakers. The salary balance of 2.3 percent has been positively assessed by the co-operation to a very high degree. I have already been able to say elsewhere that, in connection with this, we are also carrying out a redistribution of the amount of living. And on the subject of vocational education and equality, I can make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am pleased that this outcome of the negotiations will be approved by the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24434	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Neugebauer, by Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner, DDr. Deweiser, Mag. Stoisits is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24510	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24528	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! In principle, it is to be said on this law that it contains many positive provisions, such as the quite respectable salary conclusion. A real drop in advertising has already been addressed, namely the non-equilibrium between graduate graduates and university graduates. It's a shame you could have done this. It would have been reasonable to do this in a throw, especially if one confessed to the Bologna process that equivalent studies were also treated equally with an equivalent possible number of points. This could have been quite easy to take part in this law, namely to determine the number of points in the Bologna process. That would have been a relatively simple exercise. There will therefore be another amendment tabled by us on this point. The motion for a resolution which has been tabled here is to be accepted because it is moving in the right direction. It's a shame you didn't do this with this Novelle Service Law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24563	Mr Scheibner, two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24581	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said, this is largely a consensual matter. That's also positive. There has been a discussion, Mr Parnigoni, about the issue of the equality of studies in high school with the academic studies for public servants, not for contract staff, because there has already been a more modern scheme. We have said that we are of course in favour of equality. But if you had done this or did what you now demand, namely the immediate absolute equality, you would have built into an old vehicle a new engine, and that rarely works, even here in the public service. [[Abg. Oillinger: In the pension reform, however, you drive the old vehicle for quite a long time!]] We believe that this strict scheme – A, B, C, D and so on – is absolutely obsolete. That is why we hope and we also firmly believe that this archaic assignment will finally be abolished by the Single Federal Workers' Act and that a functionally assigned requirement profile will be created for the individual functions and that the corresponding training will be defined there, because for a function of a group leader or section head in the Ministry of Agriculture, a different study will be useful and important than for such a one in the Ministry of Economic Affairs or in the Ministry of Defence. Another example: If absolute equality were to be implemented immediately, then a Lieutenant who is a fresh exitr of the military academy and “Magister (FH) – Military leadership” would be classified in A, who is 50-year-old Colonel, who serves this Lieutenant, in B. So you can see that this is not possible at the moment. But a complete reorganisation of the salary schedule and service schedule in the public service at least for those areas where Pragmatisation is still necessary – and this area, I hope, will be very, very slim in the future – is certainly necessary, and this task we have to put ourselves fastest.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24621	Now, Mr. Dr. Lopatka. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24639	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If the opposition speaks of a respectable, good result, I can only congratulate you, Mr Fritz Neugebauer, and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany on this conclusion, which has succeeded here, because a four-party agreement has not been foreseen at this item on the agenda. It is indeed true that you have found a very good compromise here: On the one hand, against the background of the biggest tax reform and the objective of reducing the burden on the budget as little as possible, on the other hand, 2.3 percent is a very nice salary conclusion. This is also covered by what is possible in the other areas of God, namely that workers will simply have more money at their disposal in the future. In the case of metallurgical workers, a 2.5 percent salary and also over 2% of the other professional groups – that is clearly above the inflation rate – this is something very, very positive, and this is also exactly what this degree fits in for officials. One more thing: Of course, officials are also making a big contribution to the fact that we have already saved many posts in this area in recent years and that efficiency has also been greatly increased, especially as regards the eGovernment and other initiatives that the Federal Government has set up. All in all, it is a very good result, which rightly finds the approval of all four political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24676	The next speaker was Mr Ddr. Decliner. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24694	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! To Mr Lopatka I would like to make a brief comment because it is necessary: The increase in efficiency and the savings you mentioned have also indicated that some 4,000 to 5 000 teachers have retired early on – and we are missing the way we do today in the debate. have seen the PISA study, which, however, is reversed in the current budget, with € 190 million in addition, for higher pension expenditure. That is, what we actually do save when you send people with 50 and just over to pension, thus creating a huge amount of pension, and if these people are missing in the active position, that is put on the stand. We have already announced our consent to the request itself and to the law itself. It is also very important that we have been able to agree on this motion for a resolution. He does not fulfill what we would have liked today, but he is a clear sign to the government, and therefore we agree with him. However, I would like to take this opportunity to make the following request, which provides for this equality with university graduates immediately: [[Quoted print version removed]] With this provision, the House would be able to deal with this issue today, which would certainly be the better way. Finally, let me point out the following: If a new right of service is now being negotiated, then the solution to other major problems is still on the table. The Bologna process was mentioned. The Bologna process provides for three-member studies, and according to the current state of the public service service service, the Bachelor is still not – that is, the Bachelor! – recognized as the first part of the study or as the first phase of a study, as the first degree. This topic will inevitably appear at the latest when the first ones finish their studies. All the studies have now changed, the students are in the middle. It would be a command of fairness to tell them as quickly as possible in what form the Bachelor will be treated in public service under the University Law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24770	Mr Ddr. The amendment tabled by Mr Wittmann, Mr Niederwieser, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Fauland is now speaking to us for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24792	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! To DDr's just proposed amendment. I would just like to say to Niederweiser – I believe it has just been explained by Klubobmann Scheibner – that the current system of civil service rights is not yet applicable to this very rapid regulation, but we would create problems which the system would not handle. You first have to adapt the system, adapt the system to the new challenges, and only then can you think about implementing it. As already noted, in the field of “Military leadership” we then produce ad hocly 100 academics a year more. The system is not able to accommodate these people. First, we must make the necessary adjustments in this system, and then we will do the second part. So a step-by-step tactics would be recommended. The appointment requirements in the current official's schedule are certainly a matter that should belong to the past. There is a need to take new paths towards a function-related classification of the people working in the public service and to develop themselves slowly there, because only in this way can one create a homogeneous transition from the present system and then also fully implement the needs of both the Bakkalaureat students and those at the technical universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24822	The next speaker is Mrs Grander. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24840	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On Service Law Novelle 2004: I would like to focus very briefly on the innovation that creates the legal basis for teleworking in the Federal Service, which Telework also creates in the public service. Telework is introduced through express service regulations. In 2002, this has already been submitted by the Public Service Union, and now it comes what is good, because this is especially true of the desire of young families for better compatibility between work and family life. The service provider shall replace the costs incurred by the service provider. There is also a role to play by staff representatives in teleworking, i.e. the service provider is obliged to inform the Service Committee in writing that he intends to grant a service provider telework. – That would be very briefly the content of telework. In the light of the advanced period, I would just like to stress briefly the good social partnership dialogue. I think that there were good negotiations, and the law as a whole has also worked well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24874	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24892	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As my previous speakers have pointed out here, this innovation is a negotiated outcome between the Federal Government and the Public Service Trade Union. I think we all confess to this outcome of the negotiations, and I would like to say one thing, because I really would have expected it: I was not at the negotiating table at all, but after I had already asked the Minister of the Interior in the committee why he was actually discussing a better set-aside arrangement for executive officials in the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs, and since, as I was told, that was also the wish of the institute, I was surprised that this was not also negotiated within the framework of the Service Law Novelle. That would have been nice. Especially with regard to the recast of the Security Police Act, this would certainly have been further secured by many colleagues of the Executive. However, I would like to thank you very much for this point, which concerns the entire public service, on behalf of the Group of Socialists and Democrats on behalf of the public servants. I would like to express my special thanks to the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate and invite you all: Let us always remember that colleagues are providing a first-class service for the citizens and for us. Therefore, we do not always see them as a cost factor!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24924	Mr Praßl is now speaking for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24942	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the Law on Agricultural and Forestry Workers' Service contains essentially harmonised statistics, which have become necessary in this Act due to changes in other legislative instruments. Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, special provisions for female employees had to be withdrawn following the EU Equal Treatment Code, but on the other hand, improvements to labour law could be incorporated into this law. I may mention two improvements here: the extension of the payment of compensation in the event of sickness and the extension of the leisure allowance for the search for a new job in the event of a service provider's announcement. These are very important points that are now having an improvement effect. Work security also serves as a new provision for favouring temporary workers. Ladies and gentlemen! § 55 also adapts the terms of the holiday law to the holiday law, which the replacement services arrive. Since there is a four-party union here, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is will also make a positive decision. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e24984	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Grossmann 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25003	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If you talk about service improvements for officials in the framework of the 2004 Service Law Novelle, you must not forget the large group that is allocated to distributed legal entities. This applies, for example, to postal services, who have no easy life in times like these. For those affected by the harmonisation of pensions, there has been great uncertainty as to whether pension funds should also be set up for them. During the negotiations on the harmonisation of pensions between Chancellor Schüssel and the Public Service Trade Union on the night from 16 to 17. In November, the establishment of pension funds was agreed among other things. The magazine of the Public Service Trade Union can be found in the full text of this Agreement. That's what it says, for example: ‘In the context of the forthcoming salary negotiations with the public service, negotiations will also be held on the establishment of a pension fund for those parts of the Federal Service for which such a one does not yet exist.’ I would now like to save you the details of this agreement. In any event, these wordings do not differ from whether officials are directly engaged in a local authority or are assigned to a distributed undertaking for service. That means that calls for clarification. The Members who have been signed are therefore requesting the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I do not think there is any reasonable reason to deny these persons the pension fund scheme. [[Abg. Neugebauer: This is agreed!]] I therefore expect your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25055	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Be so sweet and give us the request so that we can check if it is sufficiently supported! Otherwise, he's considered not to be brought in. [[Call the SPÖ: How do you want to check this?]] – I need to check if he has the necessary number of signatures. I am always ready to teach. [[Abg. Newborn: (in the direction of SPÖ) But he is overtaken by you! He's outlawed!]] So he's not signed yet. The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. Perhaps he is given the signed request, and he brings it in again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25101	Mr President. High house! Two comments soon. First: We are indeed pleased that this consensusal conclusion has been reached between the Public Service Trade Union and the Service Provider on the side of the federal government, because we believe that such arrangements should be found in consensus, not only when it comes to the Confederation but also otherwise. We find that very positive. We would also generally wish that those concerned should be involved in the adoption of measures which concern them. Secondly, The arguments that have been put forward here today by representatives of the government groups, why there is no way to achieve equality between the graduates of technical colleges with university graduates, are not coherent. I think we should deal with each other honestly. The only problem that really exists is to integrate baccalaureate graduates into the federal system. Of course, there is no problem at all, by law, ensuring that, where academic degrees or special qualifications are required, which are in particular academic, the planning posts are also occupied with graduates from professional universities. You could've done that now. We're happy if you're going to take care of this later, but you'd have had the chance even now. The arguments you have put forward against this are not conclusive. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] I agree to submit the motion for a resolution once again: [[Quoted print version removed]] The main reason is that there is a particular uncertainty among these officials and that it is therefore possible to clarify them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25163	The motion for a resolution which has now been tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Elisabeth Grossmann, Pendl, Dr. Wittmann is sufficiently supported and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25226	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore come to the vote, first on the draft law, title and receipt in 685 and 685 of the supplements. Mr Wittmann, Members of Parliament, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part concerned by the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt. Mr Wittmann, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment to Article 1(47). I ask those Members of the House who agree to this to give a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Government's proposal in 685 and 685 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I would ask those Members who are voting in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This has now been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in favour of this draft law at the third reading, to have a sign of approval. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. [[Abg. Neugebauer: (in the direction of SPÖ) Bravo, colleague! Thanks many times]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner, Dr. Niederwieser, Mag. Stoisits, colleagues, on a uniform service law and the classification of post-graduate graduates. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. . The request is given unanimous approval and is therefore accepted. (E 84.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Elisabeth Grossmann, Pendl, Dr. Wittmann and colleagues concerning pension fund officials affected by the harmonisation, who are allocated to distributed companies. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request does not find the majority. He is therefore rejected. Before we go to the 23rd place. I have had the minutes on the current hour and on the security debate. The calls for orders were requested. First, I come to where I don't give a call for order. This concerns the speech by Mrs Partik-Pablé in the debate on the Security Police Act, in which she said: “For you, drug trafficking is obviously a cavalier crime, Mr Pilz Member!” I've been thinking about this very carefully, I don't give you a call for order here. As part of the current hour, however, Mrs Partik-Pablé has said – and I still find it – that “they are always the ones who keep their hands on those who act unlawfully, who are drug dealers who are going to come to Austria illegally.” [[Abg. Scheibner: She certainly didn't say that!]] This is where Mrs Mandak raised a call for order. I give this call for order to Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is really ridiculous!]] 23. Point report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 472/A by Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dipl.-Ing. Uwe Scheuch, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Private Radio Act and the Private TV Act (768 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25336	We're now on the 23rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Stoisits. Five minutes? [[Abg. May. Stoisits: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Too much!]] - Too much. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25370	Mr President. I don't need 5 minutes to explain why the Greens will vote against the novels of the Private Radio and Private TV Act. We are not, in principle, opposed to event legislation. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. So what now?]] We are not opposed to legislation that takes place on the basis of an occasion when a change is made in such a way that the intention is also followed by the need to change the law, which has not happened in this case. [[Abg. Neudeck: Can you say that in German? That's a sentence from the PISA study!]] That is why we do not agree with the amendment, because a system that was originally fully legislative has led to a judicture of the Administrative Court and is still preserved in this novel that you are presenting to Parliament today. That is to say, one – I say it anyway – failed legislation is not a better legal situation than it was originally given by a failed repair. This type of event legislation cannot find the consent of the Greens. However, there are also points in this novel, which we quite agree with, for example, the cartridges. This small point in the private television law and private radio law is quite acceptable, but in total – I do not repeat what I said at the beginning – this kind of – I say it once more as presumptuously as possible – cannot find the approval of the Greens. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: I didn't understand that now!]] That was my last speech today. Now finally: Good night!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25431	Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer is now speaking for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25452	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I regret that the Greens cannot agree to this proposal, but I suspect that this is obviously a misunderstanding and falsely ascribe it to a bad occasion legislation, which is not the case. It is a change to the private radio and private television law, which has become necessary to restore legal certainty to the media industry, because a great unmistakable awareness of the administrative court has led to great unrest. The Administrative Court has found that a subsequent change in the Company Contract between the application for a licence and the decision of the Federal Communications Senate on the licence is so essential that two applicants are therefore required to withdraw approval. That is not the case in our opinion! We are making this innovation so that the licences for these two candidates are not lost, because clearly the legislator of 1993 would not have wanted this to be an essential lack, because this has nothing to do with the selection decision of the licences at all. I think that the Greens, to my regret, are on the wrong steamer, but we need this novel to give the necessary legal certainty, in accordance with the private radio and private television market, especially for this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25485	Mr Marizzi is now speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25503	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Why do we change this law? – This repair is important because it contained incomprehensible regulations. There was a lack of legal certainty. We have discussed in great detail in the Committee that these regulations are also practical. I believe that large modo operators – these are actually the most important ones, ATV, KRONEHIT Radio et cetera – are satisfied with this regulation. It is also possible that private radio operators and private TV operators can now move within the framework of legal certainty. I think there should be a positive development on private television and on private radio. We are glad that the media are independent of this country, complementing private and public media. That is why we are happy to give this law our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25534	The next speaker is Deputy Dipl.-Ing. Shame. 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25552	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! As my previous speakers from the ÖVP and SPÖ have pointed out, this is an urgent need to repair a formal error that simply creates legal uncertainty, namely legal uncertainty in an area that is particularly important to us liberals, namely to ensure, In addition to the state television of the ORF, which has a clear mandate to also allow private television and radio. In this sense, my group will vote in favour of this request, as has already been discussed and discussed in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25584	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25603	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, the basic intensions of the Private Radio Act and, of course, of the Private Television Act concern frequency regulation, also the possibility of applying for national broadcasts and, therefore, the admission in this field. We've been dealing with the middle of this year in a novel. In principle, this should also prevent the fragmentation of the radio landscape and ultimately promote the cost-effectiveness of the individual private radio stations and television stations. Ranges, market shares, advertising revenue and much more have also helped private radios to become more professional. I believe that it is important on the part of the legislator that we build on appropriate legal certainty. With this innovation, we will also be able to provide legal certainty. I am confident that this law, with its novels, will bring about one thing, namely not only that the conversation will be expanded as a whole, but also, above all, that the information content of the private radio stations and private television stations will be strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25633	The last speaker is Mr Magistrate. Controller. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25651	Mr President. High house! The Private Radio Act and the Private TV Act 2001 were milestones in the variety of media and opinion in Austria. This intention of the law should continue to be respected. It is clear that in the selection process, the ownership and character of the programme should be described and defined, but all details must not be stoned that, for example, small changes in the content and timing of transmissions would already lead to the withdrawal of approval. It is therefore intended that the person who has already invested, on the basis of a decision of the Authority, have a certain degree of security. In the light of the findings of the Administrative Court, there is now a need to establish: In particular, changes to the social contract are not to be considered as a change which can at the same time benefit from the selection procedure so that the old procedure does not become invalid. It should also be noted that for someone who succeeds in the appeal proceedings, there is no legal right to grant the authorisation. And it is also important to note that in the event that the VwGH takes a note of the Federal Communications Senate, the first instance decision is not lost. It is about the fact that one who has already invested in an administrative decision is Investments do not lose in order to maintain the diversity of the media and opinion in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25684	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur did not agree with the conclusion. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 768 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is also in favour of this bill at third reading, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This was accepted by the majority at the third reading. 24. Point Report of the Committee on Culture on the Government template (704 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Film Promotion Act (766 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25733	We're now on the 24th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Muttons. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25757	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a saying: “Good thing needs a while.” – Unfortunately, proverbs do not have a universal right to truth, because although the creation of the new film promotion law has taken place for a long time, a particularly large throw has unfortunately not become: It does not constitute a comprehensive revision, but includes some problematic innovations. A few brief comments on licensing arrangements. – Ladies and gentlemen! It is positive to say that such regulations are now provided for, although there is a competent regulatory authority for this purpose and therefore there would have been no need for a revision of the Film Promotion Act. It is also positive to note that at least one point of our demands has been taken over in a committee statement, namely that the film economic report must also be submitted to the National Council in the future and can thus be discussed publicly. It was also particularly important for us to withdraw the planned aggravation of the aid provisions: Thus, a film should not only be successful at international festivals, but also have a minimum number of visitors in the country in order to be eligible. - That was taken back. Now to our criticisms: First of all, we criticize the massive expansion of the competences of the director of the Austrian Film Institute, as it shows: The Federal Chancellor appoints the Director, so he is in direct dependence by the Federal Chancellor. The Director shall determine the members of the Project Commission, which in turn shall determine which films are eligible for funding. The Director also has a right to vote. – Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that you are already beginning to perceive how a certain power line is going through! To the Film Council, which should have an advisory function: Why does the Federal Chancellor hold the Presidency? Why is not the chairperson or the chairman appointed by the film council itself? What function do ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-Cancellor, who is actually responsible for transport issues, have in this film council? Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Depoliticization can't be a question here! With regard to the Supervisory Board, we also demand an exact definition and an extension of the competences as a counterweight to the Director. All in all, then, there is a pretty powerful place for the public sector director and a direct possibility of influence by the Federal Chancellor. The striking feature of this novel is the time-consuming proximity of the new occupation of the Austrian Film Institute and the massive expansion of the competences of the new director. The impression arises quite forcefully that this more lightweight novel to the Film Promotion Act has been used to create a closed society between the ÖFI Director on the one hand and the Federal Chancellor on the other. This attachment of individuals to political decision-makers leaves a very small side-effect from the point of view of democracy. We would have wanted a more substantial and courageous law, especially with less democratic political regulations, with less unsightly optics and increased participation by film makers. Mr Christ will explain this on the basis of an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25816	The next speaker was Mrs Wolfmayr. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25834	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to go into the rather antique ideas of the board of directors, as she had designed my predecessor before. This legislative innovation is a long-standing, important and necessary adaptation to European and international development. The special thing about her is that in many preliminary discussions and in a long assessment phase it was worked together with film makers in the industry. The proposal was on the Internet and everyone was able to comment on it. The late concerns of the opposition in the Committee are probably more party-political than objectively motivated. In short, to the law: In addition to the expansion and upgrading of the film institute to the competence center, the aim is to promote young people and to present the Austrian film abroad. Film and television usage rights and withdrawal periods are being re-regulated, there is easier access to reference film promotion and an annual film economic report that will finally provide objective figures from the Austrian film landscape. – It is nice that at least we agree on this! I am not going to continue to address the oppositional ideas, which are rather harsh as far as the Executive Board is concerned. We want clear responsibilities and a clear flow of decisions, and that is what we stand for. This is an important law that will strengthen the film and creativity location of Austria in the future, and I hope once again, but probably in vain, that the broad agreement we have reached before the Committee also expresses itself here in your voting behaviour. They will probably vote against us again in principle. At any rate, we want to support and support the rights of the film-makers of Austria now and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25876	The next speaker was Dr Zinggl, Member of Parliament. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25895	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Without a doubt, the amendments to the Film Promotion Act, as they are now present, have long been necessary. Most of the reformed paragraphs are quite fine, and the filmmakers – they are referred to by you, Mr. State Secretary, as extra-parliamentary opposition, as APO – see this very similar. They say: The main thing is that something happens. This term “except parliamentary opposition” already says something about the relationship you have with film art in Austria: You obviously see this as an opposition to what you do! However, we of the parliamentary opposition are not entirely satisfied with the law, because it is nothing but the German Film Promotion Act, which entered into force at the beginning of 2004, almost immediately captivated. However, there is something like the film board that is now to be set up. In Germany, however, it has more rights: It can, for example, decide on the budget and take very basic decisions at all. Our film council, on the other hand, has only consultative functions; it is likely to prevent a debakel similar to that of the diagonal in the future. Funny is also that this film council should advise the Federal Chancellor. At the same time, however, he is chairman of the Film Council. The Federal Chancellor thus advises himself so to speak. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In my opinion, the better example would have been the Italian Film Act, which clearly describes the orientation of Italian policy towards film, while in us the Film Promotion Act has become nothing but a kind of rules of procedure of the Austrian Film Institute, whereby the Director is essentially granted many rights – too many rights, as we think. We believe that democratization can also take place there, and we would have liked the film board to have more opportunities, more choices. We have also tried to discuss this with you in the committee, but you have not gone into it, you have not discussed it. [[Abg. Steibl: Was certainly not an exciting proposal!]] You have also not taken up our other proposal, namely the proposal for a balanced occupation of the Selection Commission or the Project Commission, as you call it, with men and women. It is now stated in the proposed text of the law: “A proper representation of women is to be ensured.” – This is too dirty and too sluggish for us. For women are not represented by the film, but the film is to be represented equally and balanced by women and men. Would it really have been so bad to follow it or agree to it or discuss it with us? – Saying Now, please, there are too few women who could occupy these positions. I can't accept that. I would send you a list in the morning so that you can forget this argument again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] I hope some of you at least think: He is right in essence. Mr Partik-Pablé gave a similar opinion in the Committee. But, of course, the vote will go back to the committee, and the caravan will continue. Well, maybe next time! We're patient. Developments take place, and I am sure that one day you will still give us the right to do so, just as you will one day accept the equality of homosexual partnerships and will vote in favour of them, also for the whole day school and for much of what we demand today. I just need to take the federal procurement law as an example. In the summer, we criticized the fact that the books are inside; we wanted to take the books out of the federal procurement law. You refused. But now all the contracts have been settled, and in January we will surely vote together in the right direction. This is always the case with conservativeism: First, the renewal is rejected. [[Abg. Wittauer: But this has nothing to do with conservatively that you refuse! That's a wrong opinion!]] Then the developments will force directly there, and then they will be accepted. [[Abg. Wittauer: Incorrect definition!]] Finally, they are defended with claws and teeth and claws, and it is pretended to have been responsible for these developments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25967	Next, Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e25985	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I would also like to talk in detail about the Film Promotion Act. I do not, however, because we have been sitting here in Parliament for twelve hours now. I would also like to deal with the accusations of the opposition because we have already done so in detail in the Committee. In the Committee, the opposition parties have also essentially said that it is a useful and good law. I'm also convinced of this: We will agree. – I’m already going to end my speech with that.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26015	Next, Mr Morak, State Secretary. – Mr State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26034	Don't worry, I'm just getting out in the frame of the representative; I know how late it is. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Madam President. Mr Zinggl, I am not defending anything with claws and teeth. This government, I think, is very much trying to show a reformer here, as is the case with the United Kingdom. So far in this Republic has never been the case, including under the Film Funding Act. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] I do not understand, however, Mrs Muttonen, who says: On the one hand, the law is nothing at all, but at the same time, an incredible fullness of power comes together with the Director; there are no fundamental changes, but that is already one. So I don't know what you really want. But we can talk to each other after that. I believe that in principle this law will be adapted in about every six years, adapted to promote reality. Let me give you a few figures. We have increased film funding to 9.6 million, parked the film promotion of the federal government at the ÖFI; we have set up a new TV film promotion fund at the RTR with €7.5 million, which has caused sustainable investments in this country last year of approximately € 25 million. I therefore believe that there have been some changes in the film landscape. In addition, of course, we also increased small film funding by 20 percent. I think that something has been moved in this area, which was basically in the sense of the film industry. At the same time, we said it was also important that we facilitate the transition between university and professional work in film. So we have introduced youth film promotion or the promotion of the first films. We started this after an evaluation and in principle made some specificizations. Say: In the eternal dispute between intentional model or not intentional model, but democratic model, we have gone a middle path. If you say that's an incredible wealth of power for the insider: Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, every theater director has much more power than this poor person who sits up there and is film director! That's where it's all different. That means, of course, that there is a very clear decision to make. First point. Second point: Believe me that we were also trying to ensure the continuity of the dialogue with the filmmakers. That's why we also set it up in the Film Funding Act. I would also like to say that this Film Council does not advise the Federal Chancellor, but, of course, the Federal Government. So this is a normal process, as I would like to point out. In principle, we have introduced an essential milestone here with the right-wing period of about – not in any case, but yet – seven years. We have chosen a model here that basically has consensus in Europe. This also means that we are promoting free producers on the market, because we have a problem of undercapitalization of free producers. I believe that with this film promotion law we have addressed the circumstances and conditions in the Austrian film industry. I think it has become a good law, within the scope of the possibilities of the Austrian film and the Austrian film industry. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26095	Next is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26113	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This law contains absolutely meaningful points. We strongly support the re-regulation of the rights of use and the extension of the time limits. This is a regulation that is absolutely desirable and necessary in the sense of the film-makers. That is why we will also give our approval to this part of the law at second reading. It is interesting, from my point of view, that you can't get used to using a sensible regulation to provide even such a small institution with your political access and to redesign it in this sense. In other cases, go the way for you to make a so-called structural reform first, in order to be able to re-occupy in person. Here you go the reverse way: First, you put a person whom you are politically pleased with as a new director, and then the structure is changed, then this director, by chance in this order, will be equipped with greater competences. Of course, it's not that you can talk about a giant load of power, but it's remarkable that even a small institute is not safe from your political access and is redesigned accordingly. It is a pity that you also did not address small points to which we would have proposed significant changes, such as those that the film council can meet not only once a year – at least once a year – but also when at least five members of this body – and we are talking about a consultative body – call for them. [[State Secretary Morak: At least once a year!]] So there would not have been any real danger in the past, and you would have been able to come up with a step forward here in our political wishes. Total: Unfortunately, a worthy conclusion of today's day to continue with the democracy reduction package tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26153	Next, Mrs. Dr. Brinek will speak. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26171	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Kuntzl, stay calm. I also say this to the previous speakers Zinggl and others who have spoken of an APO constellation or anything else. I believe that in a good sense and in a good atmosphere, including with regard to increasing the film budget and the project, taking into account the needs of the film industry and the promotion of young people, we will decide on this act, in the broadest sense also unanimously. The wish that you wish to vote separately on a number of points is also to be taken into account in parliamentary terms. I also believe that it is important if I say that the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor, is to take responsibility, then he must also sit in the film board. That's what's supposed to happen. I also believe that there is a good practice, good experience, good comparisons with other legal formulations as regards the formulation of “adequate representation of women”. Of course, if there are more women there, you will also get over the 40 or 50 percent weight, which is otherwise formulated. I am also pleased that in the National Council on the detour of the referral of a member of the government to the film report there is a discussion on the film report will be given. We will have the opportunity to comment regularly on the situation of the film industry, film promotion and so on. At a later hour: Thank you, Mr State Secretary, thank you all. That's a good thing. May we still be able to decide many good things! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26214	The next speaker was Mr Christ. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26232	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The government groups in the Committee have provided a very questionable example of their democratic policy ideas and have even refused a prospected four-party agreement, in the form that Mrs Wolfmayr kindly said: Of course, we do not want to discuss this. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In order to bring all four parties to a joint request, MEPs shall make Mag. Christine Muttonen, Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zingglund Colleagues today: the following amendment in the sense of organisational simplifications, more participation and more co-design possibilities, as well as an appropriate representation of women in the project commission: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! You are welcome to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26345	The amendment tabled just now by the Members Christine Muttonen, Wolfgang Zinggl and colleagues is sufficiently supported, properly applied and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Rossmann. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26367	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! To the Film Promotion Act: good thing needs a while, and we very much welcome that this is now on the table. It was a long wish of the filmmakers, and we are pleased that this law on film promotion really takes a lot of account of the film makers and they have a lot of attention, for example, that for the first time the promotion of children and youth films is possible. Mr State Secretary! It is also particularly important for us that the concept of scriptmaking is now included in this law, as is an appropriate marketing law. In this sense, we are pleased that we can decide on this law. We hope that the film industry in Austria will really bring about a new upturn.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26402	Next, Mrs Fleckl is speaking. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26420	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Film Promotion Act, which is being dealt with here today, contains, as already quoted, very positive and, of course, necessary provisions. But I think that all these positive parts could have been regulated by the Radio and Telecommunications Regulatory Authority throughout the country. We wouldn't have needed a novel. That's why they're already wondering: Why a novelle? – The answer was quickly found: Black and blue influence policy comes to my mind. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: My God!]] An example of this is the film council already quoted. The Film Council, which is actually to be used as an advisory body, now has a new chairman, and that is the Federal Chancellor. Absurd is that now the Federal Chancellor advises himself; apparently he does not trust anyone in Austria anymore. The fact that Mr Verkehrsminister, Mr Vice-Chancellor, also refers to the next draft, is also very remarkable. This looks like this: the Austrian film from the point of view of transport policy. I'm just saying, Schuster, stay with your performance! The Minister of Transport should do this. Finally. It would have been nice for the filmmakers if this time the Reasoning Director had been in charge of this law. But in a law where the script was printed blue on black, there is no more to be expected than a stripping. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26458	The next speaker is Mrs Felzmann. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26476	Madam President. High house! Mr Kuntzl meant that no structures were defined in the Film Funding Act. I would just like to summarize it briefly. The fact is, on the one hand, is about the international adaptation of film promotion. The organisational tasks of the Institute will be extended. In the course of the tasks, special attention is paid to the promotion of young people. Reference film promotion is provided here or facilitated access. Television rights will be re-regulated with the seven-year withdrawal periods discussed, and we will also experience an increased presence abroad. These are already very strong structural changes, which, of course, need to be followed by a strong director. The fact is that the accompanying process has also been very intensively led to this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if you now believe that we have not taken your concerns into account here, I must say to you: If you enter the Committee directly with new ideas, it is of course relatively difficult for us to discuss them and take them into account. That's where I want you to consider this. Well, yes, it's excellent that we're going to have a movie economic report here. We have seen in the first report on the Austrian creative economy, which we have produced, how important it is that we have data, facts and figures in our hands so that we can define new strategies, for example, when it comes to a tax model for the film industry. We need facts to do that. In order to address the Director briefly: This has now been given very clear tasks and competences. We have gone away from the intentional model and have created a means of creating a clear allocation of decision-making flows. A political responsibility is also to be lived here, and I think that we will be very happy with the new director. I appreciate him in this way – and that was to be felt in the Committee – that he will bring not only extensive expertise but a very high ethical claim to his work! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I think this is a very good basis for the Austrian film industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26522	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26540	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you say that we have only made the request in committee, that is the right thing to do, but here you will experience what we are constantly experiencing: We always get applications on the table at the last minute, and these are quite different applications! [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] This is often about serious changes, as digits are changed without knowing at first glance what it is all about. On the other hand, we have been dealing with very simple demands, demands which we have been making for a long time. Among other things, we have been demanding the report since the survey. But you still have the opportunity to agree to our amendment. I know that you are not going to do this, so I should like to sum up as the last speaker of my group: Where there has been talk with the filmmakers, where agreements and meaningful arrangements have been reached, we will agree – for example, licenses; this is positive to see. But where you are actually trying to strengthen the political influence, we will of course not agree. We can't and don't want to go with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26576	The next item is the speech by Mr Pack. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26595	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! A picture says more than a thousand words; we not only listen to words, but at the same time we take things visually. This is a fact that the film industry is taking advantage of: It can turn the viewer into a different world. Since it's almost half twelve today, I think – half one, excuse me! – we want to move, one or the other, into a “other world. ” [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Chew: Half one!]] [[Further calls: half one]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: PISA study!]] [[Further calls at the SPÖ:PISA study!]] That's why I'm going to be very short. I think it is particularly important to stress that this novel is an essential contribution to more representative and presentation of Austria as a film location abroad and to optimise the internationalisation of Austrian film production in terms of production and marketing. The system of Austrian film promotion has proved to be successful. It now contains substantial improvements and changes, most of which are made in the organisational field. In this sense: Give your consent to this proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26671	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote on the draft law in 766 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Muttonen, Dr Zinggl, colleagues, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. There is also a request from the honourable Member, Mag. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amendment referred to and on the request for separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt. Deputies Mag. Muttonen, Dr. Zinggl, colleagues have an additional request concerning the addition of a sentence to § 2a para. 5 in point 6. I ask those Members who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Muttonen, Dr Zinggl, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning paragraphs 6, 22 and 27. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on paragraphs 6, 22 and 27 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on paragraphs 40 to 47 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are speaking for it. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would also like to ask those Members of the House who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a similar sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00089_d7e26770	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 483/A to 488/A. Questions 2381/J to 2415/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for today, Friday, 10. December 2004, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting will begin with a Question Time. The sitting is closed.
