ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e3416	The meeting was opened. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen and ask them to take their seats. The official protocols of 43 and 44. Meeting of 13. In January 2004, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies of Vuhrmann, Dr. Spindelegger, Schieder and Oberhaidinger are reported as prevented. The Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor have announced their intention to make statements on the issue of “Tax relief brings recovery for business and work”. These are on the agenda as item 1. In addition, there is a request from five Members on these statements, according to § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a joint debate. The statements and subsequent debate will take place after the current hour. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e3463	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Does the environment come under the wheels?” First of all, Mrs Lichtenberger has spoken. It speaks and has a term of 10 minutes, according to business regulations. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e3487	Ladies and gentlemen! In the Tyrolean Inntal, the health and the environment are dramatic. Over a thousand doctors point this out. Along the Tauern motorway there is a suspicion that the higher rate of cancer is related to the increasing traffic burden. At the same time, I find an article from the “Society for the Care of Road Construction Technology with Asphalt”, in which it is announced radiantly and triumphantly that it has finally succeeded in being installed in Austria over a ton of asphalt per head and year. That is to say, one is working hard to ensure that these burdens are also increasing. A few details, ladies and gentlemen, that this title, “Does the environment come under the wheels?”, should once again explain: Since 1990 – even though many of you have much more pleasure with road construction technology... – I will now see if anyone might be interested in this topic. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: All!]] I am not going to leave you alone with this issue and, in the interests of the people, call for measures to protect the environment and protect the health of people along our roads, even if you, Mr Wittauer, do not agree with it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e3543	Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to lower the sound level and listen to the speaker!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e3558	Maybe you'll get some data I'll call you to think about. Since 1990, traffic has increased by 54 percent in Austria. Heavy traffic has almost doubled at this time. The high-level road network has grown by 14 percent, while at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the rail network is shrinking. This government is silenced one by-way after another, the shift to the rail is good for Sunday's speeches, but in practice this has no real significance for you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Furthermore, I don't have to talk about that for a long time, there was the transit disaster, with which the last last restriction still existed for heavy traffic through Austria, and in addition, completely national measures to restrict transport are missing. The federal control station network, to which all the parties are confessing here in the house, will only come in many years and will cover only 1 percent of the trucks controlly, ladies and gentlemen! That's far too little. An offensive is necessary – and not for spreading new asphalt carpets. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Not only do we have to threaten foreign countries to control trucks now, but we also need to control their ability to drive in the interests of safety of domestic and foreign heavy vehicles. But that must also be done and must not only be announced! Ladies and gentlemen! There needs to be an offensive in investment, as well as an offensive with regard to political will. 1 percent control in a few years – this is far too little in view of the dramatic situation we face! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There's still a night's driving ban missing. We do not have a duty to install particle filters, ladies and gentlemen, although the number of studies that demonstrate the harmfulness of the particles that document the health threat arising from these particles is increasing. Instead, ladies and gentlemen, this government has begun to put seven times as much money into road construction as in the extension of rail by 2011 – and this data has been taken from the general transport plan. The money that the Minister is constantly talking about, namely that two thirds are to be invested in the rail and one third on the road, is well beyond 2010, 2020. There is no funding for this. These are empty promises, Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This policy has consequences, and has serious consequences for transit routes. However, these transit routes are being mercilessly expanded. And this concerns not only high-level roads, but also such routes as the B 100 in Carinthia, where the environmental impact assessment is avoided by the fact that each project is by chance just so long that it is not subject to the EIA obligation. This quantification is forbidden, but it takes place in Carinthia. This is a procedure that you can only do more with the sentence: “The environment comes under the wheels!” [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Law and law, applicable EIA law, Ladies and gentlemen, you are obviously indifferent in this matter. On the Tauern motorway there is the same problem. Noise protection measures are promised for the population, but only if the head of state fails to comply with the laws, namely that the EIA is properly implemented. Millions are opposed to the environment, ignoring the obligation to review the environment in order to be able to build faster. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] The main thing about asphalt – everything that comes later is indifferent to you. For example, the fact that you will increase the capacity with a two-tube extension of the Tauernbahn, thus doubling the load for the arrivings, you have to answer. I will not rest to draw your attention to the consequences for health and the environment which you are approving to buy just to roll out the red carpet for international and national heavy traffic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is an outdated policy, and, of course, because we know that the entire government's climate change offensive is calling into question the commitment to protect the global climate, which has also been entered into by Austria. Industry, house fire and private have reduced their emissions, and you, ladies and gentlemen, are destroying this reduction with your transport policy, because the growth of emissions in transport is “refreshing” any positive change. That means, private, industry can save as much as they want. We do not make our contribution to the improvement of the world climate, because at the same time you want to favor your friends of asphalt. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is an archival policy that does not respond to the challenges of the future, especially in terms of climate protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You build a locomotive in the middle of a national park without regard to losses, which is difficult to question, endangers it, even destroys it. They no longer take any account of the consequences for nature and the environment in road construction. Ladies and gentlemen! It turns out that laws apply everywhere, but then, when it comes to building roads, these laws should no longer be valid. Mr Minister, Minister of the Environment, who unfortunately does not listen to this issue. It is your responsibility to address this question and to pay attention to the protection of nature also in road construction and railway construction. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] It is the responsibility of this government to take this into account.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e3694	Mrs Colleague, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e3710	Even if the Minister did not have to be mandatory, I would have expected him to be so interested in this issue, namely climate protection, that he is still present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e3737	Mr Vice-Chancellor spoke for an introductory opinion. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e3757	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate spectators at home! If Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger has said that she regrets the fact that the Minister for the Environment is not present on this undoubtedly spectacular subject, 'Come on under the wheels?', then I can tell you - you can ask yourself in Brussels, honourable Member - that I am a worthy representative of Mr Umweltminister, even if I am Minister for Transport. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Just as I have behaved in Brussels in recent months and for the interests of Austrian citizens, for more quality of life and for the environment, there was already the feeling that I am not the Transport Minister, but the Environment Minister. [[Bravo call at the liberals.]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You know that I did not let it happen at the last meeting of the EU Environment Ministers on 22 February. In December, it was about the well-known successor of the ecopoint system to be personally involved. I was, as it were, an exodus among the Environment Ministers, and I have made it clear there that what is now being decided in the Environment Council is an ecological mumpitz, apart from costs, and that is why it must be rejected. You have, unfortunately, accepted it. I am therefore obviously a better Minister for the Environment than many others at European level. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Rest-Hinterseer: Obviously not, otherwise you wouldn't have failed!]] Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger, you have claimed that the control master plan is too short, too little effective and too little restrictive. I can tell you that the Master Plan is extensible on the table of the Minister and his officials, but we also have to bear in mind that traffic – I say openly, because I do not close my eyes to reality – means prosperity that transport means economy and that traffic also means jobs. Take note of this, and stop devastation of the truck and mix with international transit traffic! Stop pretending that every truck would be an evil hub on Austria's roads, which brings us under the wheels. That's not how it is! These controls must also take account of international competitiveness. We have also always said in the internal discussions that we need to be careful that we do not intervene negatively against the domestic economy, because the consequences you then claim again at the next or next session. Then again we have transparency, because unemployment is so high and we have too few jobs in Austria. This is related, please note! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is also the homemade truck traffic. You will be surprised now – you always target a little bit of transit, of course in your region of Tyrol, on the Brenner 90 percent transit traffic and 10 percent homemade or small border traffic – if I tell you that in total the traffic movements in Austria are 1 percent transit and the rest are homemade. So we need to catch up, especially with regard to the expansion of the rail – but don't make me responsible for that! It is not rolled out of the truck transport of the red carpet – the blue one, by the way – but it has been shipped over the last decades to the red carpet as regards a transport policy in the sense of moving traffic to the rail. There's been a lot of failure in the last decades, I'll give you the right. Keywords: General transport plan – no financing. You know, I am a person who, especially in transport policy, thinks not only of the next five or six years, but also of the horizon a little further. There is the time until 2020, 2021 – that is 15 years in transport policy – a not too long period. And I'll tell you how the relationship actually is. Let us sit together and count on this very slowly! [[Abg. Rest-Hinterseer: slow for you!]] 45 billion are earmarked for investment, of which about 30 billion are going to the rails, about 15 billion are on the road and 0.5 billion are on the waterways. This is a ratio of two parts in favour of the rail for a share in favour of the road – for better understanding: two thirds of the rail, one third of the road development – and that is good! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Be insured: I do not want the environment to be under the wheels, but I would like the economy, the goods and the people to be able to maintain their mobility, that the economy is flourishing, and that is what we need wheels to do, because this also depends on wheels. It's best for me if there's a track under those wheels. And that's why I fought in such a way and ensure that by 2010 at least 1 billion to 1.2 billion € can be invested in rail development, new construction, in the course of the ÖBB reform – which you have criticized, but that's your good right – because I want to force the rail at last, in particular the cross-border rail networks, because that was missed. [[Abg. Rest-Hinterseier: What do you notice this?]] Another topic – you take all of this for granted – is: Trans-European networks. You know that as regards the most important projects, 5 projects and 6 projects from the next 19 at European level have been integrated into the Trans-European Networks as important construction projects. Four of them are rail projects. – In the past, only one project was inside, namely the Brenner Base Tunnel. Among them – I do not like to say this because transport policy in Austria should actually be red and white – social democratic responsibility is a project, but through good negotiation and negotiation skills it has succeeded in implementing a volume of €12.27 billion, five projects in the near future with a co-financing contribution of 20 percent by the EU. This is a success, this is offensive transport policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] What else can you do? I could now talk about bans on night driving, sectoral driving bans and all that you like to hear, but I'm talking about something else that's important, because the inevitable traffic is present, it's also increasing. We should do everything we can to shift it to the rails, but we should also do everything we can to protect the population from the negative effects such as emissions or noise. In this context, I also call you numbers: I proclaimed 2004 as the year of active noise protection, both in terms of road and rail. And here we have an increase in expenditure from around €34 million in 2003 to €42 million in 2004, and in 2005 – because I think a little more and hope that the Minister of Finance has seen the budget negotiations – to €52 million. In the railway area it is similar: We have invested much more in noise protection than ever before. Please take this statement: “Invest more in noise protection than ever before, ” seriously. I'd like to go through with you once. I should like to say something interesting in this area: that we already invest 25 to 50 percent of the total investment costs in expansion, both in terms of rail and road, in noise protection measures and environmental relief measures. I would also like to give you concrete examples of where huge financial resources flow into noise protection and environmental-relieving measures: for example A 8 in Wels, Voralpenkreuz, € 146 million in investment, € 73 million of them for noise and environmental protection measures; A 1 delivery, €31.9 million in investment; and €20 million of them in noise protection – this list could continue. That's what I'm going to do in the railways. In conclusion, however: We have to stop ideologising this. [[Abg. Rest of interest: Exactly! Great!]] We need to know that one of the four fundamental freedoms in the EU is free movement of persons and goods. We are in a single market, take note of that! We must help ourselves nationally – we have seen that the EU does not do so; in the EU I do not always have the optimal support, even from the Greens, that is a pity, but I will continue to fight. [[Calls to the Greens.]] We must set national measures, we must invest in the development of the rail network – we are doing so, we are spending as much as ever in this area – we must force noise protection, we must involve the population, but we must also increase the acceptance of transport that is not preventable or which cannot be avoided and which cannot be reduced. We are in a growing Europe, which should also please you. Finally, I can tell you: It will be possible to measure the overall transport policy in terms of actions. And I'm not afraid of a comparison with the last thirty years, I'm even saying. Look In the next ten years [[Abg. Rest of the interest: Please don't!]] We will force the rails, we will force noise protection, we will invest as never before, and we will make the whole situation tolerable to the Austrian population – believe me!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e3900	We are now entering the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current hour must not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Miedl spoke. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e3925	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Lichtenberger, it's really adventurous. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Don't take seriously!]] You write a letter to the President asking you to hold a current hour, assume that the Minister responsible is present, and then claim that the Minister for the Environment is not here. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes!]] Now the State Secretary and the Minister are here, the Minister is speaking and answering, explains the position of Austria – I ask you what you want, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That was the first question, Mrs Colleague. The second question: We know very well – the Minister said it very clearly at the end – transit, the mobility of people in Europe is a cross-border problem. They define a problem, pretend you have solutions, and they are motivating that Austria, the Austrian government, the Austrian Parliament, did not break anything further. If it were, Mrs. Colleague, I'd have to ask: What is the situation in Germany with a green Minister for the Environment, with a green foreign minister? Everyone in front of the TV at home, everyone, ladies and gentlemen, here in the hall knows the traffic situation on motorways in Germany and in Austria – and that is no comparison, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If the solution were so simple, the Greens in Germany would have managed for a long time – they could not. Ladies and gentlemen! I tell you, Federal Chancellor Schüssel, together with Gorbach and Kukacka, defended Austria's position with teeth and claws. You know very well, Mrs Colleague, that we are expecting a new road cost directive that allows Austria to have some flexibility. We want to use this road cost directive as a steering instrument. You know that because of the Road Costs Directive – in reality, it always starts with the money – we are only allowed to take into account construction costs and maintenance costs, but we cannot and must not take into account the environmental costs you have rightly mentioned at the moment. Now we are talking about sensitive areas in Austria – Tyrol, Mrs. Hakl will talk about them; yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have sensitive areas in Austria; it is the cities, which are the burden of traffic, to be seen as very sensitive. This is about the pollutants in the air, because we have a fine dust problem – well of course we have them! – there is a traffic accident development that needs to worry us across Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: We are very far ahead!]] And now we say – that is the position of the government –: Dear Europe, we would like to have 25 per cent surcharges on these fees, so that they can be used precisely for this problem! – That is what we want, ladies and gentlemen, and there we need lobbyism. We should agree on this in Austria, we should jointly represent this position, Mrs Lichtenberger! Tun Not every moment, and on every appropriate occasion, as if you had eaten the wisdom with the spoon, Mrs. Colleague! That's not okay! We need a uniform position that we represent within Europe – then we are more successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs. Colleague! Concrete: Brenner. I would have liked you to take part in the reform of the Austrian Federal Railways. [[Calls to the Greens.]] For the first time, we are committed to the use of €1.2 billion annually for the expansion of the rail. I remember: Minister for Transport To one – here he sits as a Member –: ‘Rail instead of traffic blinds’. That was a slogan, a keyword. What did he do? Nothing! – We make €1.2 billion annually available to force exactly the expansion of the rail, ladies and gentlemen! This is a serious policy in the sense of the environment which I have long missed from you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs. Colleague! I have looked very closely at your press releases. They are motivating, among other things, that we, the ÖVP, and the Federal Chancellor, supposedly did too little lobby work. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Monieren!]] - We were on our way to lobbying. If you realize that the Germans don't follow our path – the Germans don't follow our path, they want something else – why don't you talk to their Foreign Minister Fischer, with her Minister for the Environment Trittin? Why don't you and don't use an Austrian solution? Why don't you tell us here what you get as an answer? And why don't you say, Mrs Lichtenberger, that election campaign is that you are in the middle of the election campaign and want to inherit the rather unsuccessful colleague Mercedes Echerer, that this is one of the reasons why you are here today and are doing so, as if you were going alone on the path of environmentally sound transport in Europe? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Stay a little bit on the subject! That's a joke! What are you doing?]] [[Further calls for Greens]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that the Austrian road is a clearer one. [[Abg. Oillinger: We are also glad that now is finished! That's embarrassing!]] I would like the Greens and the SPÖ to support us in this, because it is at least about the health of people.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4075	Mr Prehauser has now reached the speaker's desk for 5 minutes. Mr Collegue, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4093	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I agree: Transport and the environment cannot be separated. Two components, of course, have to be seen when it comes to transport: on the one hand, emissions, pollution emissions, on the other hand noise pollution. The noise pollution – the alleged studies – affects 14 percent of the total population to an unbearable extent. In the case of pollutant emissions, you have to look at things even more closely. For example, a study measuring on the Tauern motorway, Zederhaus measuring station, says that there are 20 percent of truck traffic, 80 percent of other vehicles; however, in the case of pollutant emissions, the 20 percent of trucks account for 80 percent of the harmful emissions. This is, of course, a sentence that has to encourage us to think. These figures come from a study prepared by the Salzburg Environmental Councillor Othmar Raus – for all who do not know him: This is the Social Democratic Environment Council that has led the Salzburg lakes to have drinking water quality again, which together with the economy has achieved – he is able to talk to the economy – to influence Hallein Paper so far that the Salzach is green again, which has managed to move the Kaindl Spanpplattefabrik with joint work to build up filter plants so that it is compatible to live in the environment; of course, it is not pleasant. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Are country elections in Salzburg?]] You see, ladies and gentlemen, Salzburg has government members like Othmar Raus and Gabi Burgstaller, who work with policy on matters. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The ÖVP has to offer a two-star: Choose me today, you'll get another tomorrow! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can only recommend to the coalition to go with bowl in the next election campaign and say: Choose me, then you'll get Haider! - Maybe you're successful, I doubt. How does the Federal Government move forward in this area of environmental policy? – Kurt Steyrer has set a mark, Kurt Steyrer was the one who created the catalyst at the time very much to the unhappiness of some lobbyists of truck traffic, who had feared that something would also come for diesel vehicles, but which has not yet occurred. I'm asking: Why? Why don't we think about designing particle filters? Why are we not similar to Kurt Steyrer's nearly 20 years ago? Ladies and gentlemen! I can also tell you why we are not able to do this: because this government has other concerns. This government must first and foremost make a Minister of Finance the wall that has a self-evident idea of the taxation of its own revenue. Of course, there is no time to think for Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not true that the government would have been totally inactive – there were at least four ministers in the transit area. The first, we know, had empty batteries, was honest and went. The second Minister, Mr Forstinger, has taken over the lobbyist's role as a lobbyist, who is now standing by her side with emergency grotesques. The third, Minister Reichhold – everyone knows, his hard negotiating tactics in Brussels have led us not even to get what would have been possible. What was the success? Sad to be able to accomplish it afterwards. – The Blamage, the Blamage before Europe, remains. [[Abg. Scheibner: The approval is not very large!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that good environmental and transport policy can only be made by a government that is aware of its responsibility and is also willing to carry it in the interests of the population. That would definitely be the case for the Social Democrats – but this coalition is not.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4167	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4214	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens are starting this plenary day with a truly exotic theme for them today. The topic of environment is really a pure orchid theme for the greens. They've been out of the environment for a long time. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Where are your exponents, once for environment, for environmental protection, a Freda Meissner Blue, a Herbert Fux? – You have long eliminated them from your party! That's reality. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The left wing of the Greens – Mr Pilz, Mr Oillinger, Mr Kogler – has never had anything on the hat with environmental protection, ladies and gentlemen. The core competence of the Greens – which is demoscopic – lies in the support of schinasylants. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: What is the core competence?]] That's your job, your activity, you're profiled! Mrs. Glavischnig, I have something new for you right now. You're running in Carinthia, I've heard. In today's newspaper, reading – there's something to do for you again – that a Chechen clan, 19 men high, so-called asylum seekers, ransacked – is happening in Carinthia. Do you know what the reason for that was? – Because they should be housed in a quarter where there is no TV and no satellite system. There's something to do for you again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I hear your demand: A TV for every asylum seekers! – These are your competences, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. That's the reality! But now on the topic of the current hour, which is a really important topic for Austria: the transit question. The rulings in Brussels – which we must already be clear about – have clearly failed us. What was decided against Austria in Brussels in this respect is cynical, is superfluous, but is particularly harmful to the Austrian population. That's the reality! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Lichtenberger, it is simply absurd to implement such a system, which is bureaucratic and expensive, which harms us Austrians. I do not understand that you want to carry out such a clumsy, harmful and expensive solution for Austria. We liberals and our coalition partner say: That's not in question at all. What we here are dictated by Brussels, which is harmful to the environment, bureaucratic and expensive, we will certainly not do that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It's just not true how you juggle and play numbers here. The fact is: € 1.1 billion for the 2003 rail, the same amount for the 2004 rail. Of course, we invest in the street, we confess to it – yes, that is certainly necessary, ladies and gentlemen – and we also confess to noise protection. Because I am a delegate from Salzburg, I bring an example from Salzburg: the environmental protection measures along the Tauern motorway. We are negotiating that – a long-standing demand from us Freemans in Salzburg – appropriate protection measures are put in place for cedar house, but of course also for Flachau and the entire route there. [[Abg. Oils: Very good! Yes! Fast – FPÖ!]] We are very glad that we have a free movement minister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are of course also very confident in this respect that, if the second tube comes, the corresponding environmental measures, which already account for two thirds of the total cost, will also be implemented. And, Mrs. Lichtenberger, these street investment funds are not spent here to put a concrete band in the green meadow. Rehabilitation measures are equally involved: Salzburg: Ovenauer-, Hiefler-Tunnel, this year. 25 million € costs to clean up the oldest motorway tunnels. These are necessary measures which we are setting here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. One aspect, which you of course, because you have no competence, does not lead to the meeting: Employment and economic recovery. Thousands of people get jobs through these investment measures for rail and road! This is our responsibility, too! And gross domestic product increases by about half a percent, and that is proven. Ladies and gentlemen, we bear responsibility. That is why these investment measures are so important to us. Last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Transport has already said this: the year of noise protection. It is important to link these investment measures to noise protection: this year 35 million, next year 50 million. Ladies and gentlemen, especially of the Greens: They have long passed on the subject of environmental protection – we operate the environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4323	Next, Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig comes to the speaker's desk for 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4342	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr. Vorsprecher! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It was pre-voicers too, wasn't it?]] I don't mean them now! I now turn exclusively to the speakers, to the men who have now spoken. I honestly tell you, if I imagine, I am now sitting at home in front of the TV and looking at this debate, this mutual hack, I really wonder what this is supposed to bring. What does this style mean that you're hacking around on us, hacking on Mercedes Echerer? What are you doing? – I find that embarrassing. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Why can't we really seriously talk about this subject without these mechanisms being used, that everything we say is automatically bad and everything you do is automatically good? Can't you even step back and see if we have a problem or if we don't have a problem? And we really have a problem for the next ten years in the transit area, and it will not be better if you, Mr Minister, stand up and say: It's all original anyway. We have fundamental freedoms in the European area! Let's make a little noise protection, everything else serves to safeguard the business location! - That's not how we move on! Look The situation for the next ten years is as follows: We have growth rates. We will probably have an increase of 200, 300 percent in the next ten years with the Central and Eastern European applicants. We need a different answer than simply to say: There are fundamental freedoms in the EU. We can transport the yogurt from Palermo to Helsinki, and you have to accept that. – You don't have to accept that! It must be something else possible! At some point in time, They come up – and this is an old Indian proverb – that one cannot eat economic growth! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What do the Indians have to do with economic growth?]] And these are the basics of life that this is about! Perhaps we can discuss this very seriously once, without this stupid hack. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Assuming economic growth: Today, we have also adopted this issue of “Does the environment come under the wheels?” from a different point of view, which is precisely about this linkage of modern economic policies, of location security, of jobs with environmental protection and climate protection, and we have a current problem. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] – You don’t have to laugh like that now, you can say something about it right now. It concerns your head of state. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At present, jobs are at risk in the field of eco electricity. An investment volume of over €500 million is not secured at the moment, but everything is hanging in the air. This is because of a single person who has arrived, simply to block the development of green electricity, which is important for climate protection, which secures more than 8,000 jobs in Austria, with a completely selected stupid argument, saying: 2 € additional burden on a budget over a year is expected too much! As a power price hero – I am now speaking of the head of state Jörg Haider – I will prevent and block the whole of Austria's eco electricity expansion by a No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's a complete stupidity, what you're saying!]] I really think it is incredible that with such a cheap propaganda one prevents a very important project, namely this plant expansion in Austria. Hundreds of investors have already planned to prepare their investments in this direction. These are farmers in Upper Austria with their biogas plants, these are wind turbine operators in Burgenland, these are plant operators in Salzburg, in Vorarlberg, which are photovoltaic companies that depend on it. All of these are now prevented by a single no in their future next year. I think that's incredible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would ask you, if you are talking about environmental protection, economic location, jobs, once you choose a more modern approach and consider whether that is the key area for modern future-proof jobs, whether that is the area where Austria should invest, whether that is the area where you can build a fine industry, with good export opportunities, with extremely great know-how, where you actually have a good base in Austria. You have to face up to what you're doing for the companies. Calculate how much tax relief the reduction of corporate tax for individual companies brings! – And then you argue that climate protection is a threat to the economic location?- Oh, my God! I just call you a single number: The entire climate protection area for industry costs €50 million by 2010. Only what the OMV receives in tax relief by reducing corporate tax annually is €20 million – a single company! 50 million € for climate protection by the year 2010 are too much for you. I'd ask you: Let's talk about this seriously. I think that's a wrong way. This blockade is pure election propaganda, and this is very bad, because many plant operators have no security for the next few weeks. I would have liked you not to wipe this out of the table, but at least to admit it in the problem analysis that this is a problem. Mr Verkehrsminister, what I would like to tell you: They must already be blamed for the fact that we will not solve these problems with beautiful speeches, that is to say, always dazzling. In ten years we will be faced with these unresolved problems in Austria again, and we will say: We warned that we asked, we asked you to think about it, but you didn't do it and don't do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4447	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Hakl 5 minutes to us. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4465	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am already concerned to see that on such a subject both the Greens and the SPÖ are making party policies, on a question of what people are concerned about about the future of our children. And if, because of the Carinthian election campaign, colleague Glavischnig does not speak on the subject today, which is “transit” for which I am very grateful, I am surprised. [[Calls to the Greens.]] We have a great challenge in Austria, which is closely related to climate protection, and this is the solution to our transit question. This is not, in particular, about ecostrom. This question, which directly concerns the people who are the mothers of the children in this country – as a Tyrolean I can say – needs a solution very urgently, and we need to be slowly aware that in this House we have the damn duty to finally act together in the European Parliament and to represent our positions together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I hope that a consensus on such important questions will finally be found. What's this about? – It doesn't give us anything to list for the thousandth time how bad and how difficult things are. It is also of no use to us to regret that the EU has failed us in a question that is a question of survival in parts of this country, but we must try to convince our partners in the European Union of a way that shows how it continues. That's what we want and will focus on. How can it continue? – A new road cost directive is in preparation, and I believe that in the end we can only create the shift from road to rail through the money. The cost truth in the transport sector is at the heart of this problem, and we are pioneers in this regard in Austria. In Austria – not in Germany among green transport and environmental ministers! – the truck toll has been quickly implemented without any problems. A first step towards the cost-effectiveness of transport! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We can't stand there. We must also be able to account for the cost of accidents and environmental damage in the toll prices, especially in sensitive corridors. Two things are necessary: the definition of the sensitive corridors. Here the Alpine Convention provides a basis – but it is not enough yet. That is why I urge the city of Vienna to make a “house practice” as well. Tirol, Salzburg, Vorarlberg, these countries have done their “house exercises” and explain why, due to their landscape, they are a more sensitive area than other spaces in Europe. For the city of Vienna, which would also have to be relieved from transit traffic, it would be time to explain why Vienna should or can also represent a sensitive zone. I urge the SPÖ to do so in its area of responsibility. That's important, we need that. It is not enough to count only the cost of accidents, we also need to be able to spend and invest these multi-storages on environmental projects – and to do so I also expect investments in the railways. We need partners in the European Union for this purpose. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Here we must work together with a single Austrian position in the European Parliament. That's why I'm asking! And I hope that, with the Federal Minister, our Federal Chancellor and our Foreign Minister, who in the past has also been involved in this issue as no foreign minister before her, we can also have success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4535	Mr Gorbach spoke. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4553	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear ladies and gentlemen at home! Because I previously split the long-term programme into rail and road by 2021 – two thirds of rail, one third of road – I have now also looked at the medium and short-term investment package in the general transport plan, and it looks like the total amount of €72.5 per cent is intended for investments in the rail sector. Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger, I'd like to figure this out with you, as previously offered. Since the noise protection measures have been discussed relatively backwardly, I would like to stress once again that there are a lot of people affected and I think it is very good and very correct to take into account the quality of life of rail and road drivers. I think it is very positive that there are currently in the ASFINAG network with a length of 800 kilometres of noise protection facilities with a total area of 2 million square meters – this is an area as large as the inner city of Vienna or about 350 football fields. Perhaps I should also say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that in Austria 312,000 people in 493 municipalities are affected by rail noise. I think it is very important that I have put in place an action plan that provides for investments of between € 700 billion and € 1.1 billion in this regard to protect the population. I think it is good that 139 400 people affected have already been taken into account in 122 municipalities, and of course I would like to increase this number. But whatever I would like to tell you, because they say it's too little more passionate: The combined transport is of course also given great attention. I hope this is also something that you agree with. In this context, I can tell you that there is the “Brenner 2005” Action Plan, which is why four transport ministers, in addition to me also those from Germany, Italy and Greece, have agreed to support the objective of increasing combined transport by 50 percent compared with 2003. All of these are measures that you should recognise positively. I think it is bad if we only serve the population with critical comments on transport and not also show that we are trying to protect them and do what is possible. But one cannot simply discuss the links between the economy, even economic growth, if you want to, prosperity, tourism, tourism in Tyrol, Salzburg and transport on the track and on the road. It is not nice to talk, but rather to build beautiful, so I believe that the railway network is expanding, and that is exactly what I am doing. I would have liked your support, because expanding the rail network is a matter, but to have an attractive operator company, ÖBB, which is so attractive that this developed rail is also used, which is a very, very big objective of transport policy in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens you asked for this current hour today! Be assured – and I mean it very seriously –: The current Minister for Transport of Austria is a very environmentally friendly person. Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger, we once worked together in the environmental field: She is a waste management officer in Tyrol, I am a waste management officer and also a water protection officer in Vorarlberg, and this is very much what she is looking forward to. Not only because of that, but also from the ground up, I am a very environmentally friendly person and I also enjoy the environment very much, not only the green forests, including the blue lakes, no question. And I tell you that I will also maintain this attitude as Minister of Transport. We will try to find the good means between the needs of the economy on the one hand, mobility needs on the other, and the need for the environment and the people living in it, but also animals and plants on the other. This means that it is crucial. In the end, I'm allowed to quote Goethe, who meant: “The output gives the acts their titles.” – The title will then be called: Integrated sustainable and environmentally sound transport policy for the benefit of all concerned. That was the work of the transport policy of this black and blue government. You can then measure us.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4607	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Sima. 5 minutes speaking time. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4626	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Federal Minister, if we are You should really measure your actions or actions of the black and blue government, then the result does not look particularly good for you, I have to tell you, because in the last four years, unfortunately, nothing has gone on in the transport sector at all. On the contrary: In Brussels we have suffered one stroke after another, or you have suffered one stroke after another. I can't see anything far and wide from success, and that's really bitter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] As you have referred to the area of noise protection: If you are serious about noise protection – and we have discussed it in the last Committee on the Environment – why is the EU noise protection directive not implemented, why is there no mandatory lower limit values where people have a limit value that they can also claim? I mean not only indicative values, but mandatory limit values, where there are measuring points that check compliance, where one really has a legal basis, to be protected from noise, where noise protection is no more or less generous, but noise protection really has a legal basis. That would be important, that is what the people in Austria need! Mrs Hakl, the theme of today’s hour is not “transit”, but “Does the environment come under the wheels?” and therefore it is also very legitimate to talk about an environmental problem. I too would like to say something about “eco-strom”, for the reason that I receive daily letters, emails, calls from desperate entrepreneurs who have invested millions in eco-strom, and now probably due to a political mood of Carinthian head of state Haider, I think this is absolutely negligent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It's on the hair!]] – Unfortunately this is not drawn to the hair, unfortunately not! This is about jobs, this is about a lot of investment. I cannot quite understand why the head of state of Carinthia Jörg Haider says he no longer wants to extend these eco-electric contracts, he wants to prevent this regulation. He says that a supposed load wave is rolling on the power customers. – That’s ridiculous, it’s 2 € per household per year! And I ask the FPÖ and especially the Carinthian FPÖ delegates: Where were you when the real load wave of the black and blue federal government was rolled over the people? There you were at the dive station! You weren't there! You didn't stop that! But what you are preventing now is the creation of innovative, future jobs in this country, and I think this is really negligent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is also annoyed because the example of eco electricity – i.e. investment in wind energy, biomass, biogas plants – is one of the good examples where one can see that environmental protection and jobs are not excluded, but that one is actually the other. And I think it's a shame if investors are put here for their money. I cannot understand why those who have invested in a technology for the future simply want to be left in the rain. Finally, because this is also my concern, I would like to say one more word on the last EU progress report on climate protection. The testimony to Austria has been absolutely destructive. The EU has said that this is a weak performance. Emissions in this area are increasing and increasing – not least because of such actions. If you leave less green electricity in the country, this will automatically produce more nuclear power. So Jörg Haider has become a true atomic lobbyist in Carinthia! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You are a native Carinthian yourself!]] Mr Scheuch, yes, I am a native Carinthian, and that is why I am really angry that the Carinthian head of state with this political action can prevent the expansion of eco electricity. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Then don't talk that stupid!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Mr. Rieder of Vienna has not signed it – his sign SPÖ!]] You know exactly, it's just about: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: I know that very well!]] If you don't expand ecostrom, you can automatically get more nuclear power into the country. This is annoyed, and I do not think it is a particularly forward-looking strategy. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. That's a nonsense!]] But now a short time back to climate protection: Austria is one of the final lights in the European Union. If we do not take part in this field soon – we still have time until 2008 to finally take action – then we will also have to feel financial consequences. I don't think that's really good. In addition: Climate protection is important! We feel the impact of climate change every year: We have flood disasters, we have drought periods – so we already feel it in our own body. That is why it is all the more important to finally become active in this area. To the head of the Kärntner state I can only appeal from this pult. Listen to this blockade policy with regard to the important eco-strom investments! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: It's nice that he's so present!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Dr. Haider is omnipresent, I have the feeling!]] Don't chase brave investors into the ruin! Finally stop preventing these important projects because of cheap campaign propaganda!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4787	The next speaker is Mr Klaus Wittauer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4808	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mrs Sima! The truth is that the Ecostrom Regulation 2003 was adopted on 30 July 2003. ==References====External links==* Official website It's an increase. In this respect, a discussion is under way, and this will certainly be a positive one. Especially the Kärntner Landeshuptmann – which is noted here because you have just run the election campaign here – has launched an initiative that is very successful. Every small house builder is happy about the solar system on its roof! I think that should be said here: he is really one who not only has the environment in mind but also implements the measures required in this regard! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Lichtenberger, I hope that if you are elected Members of the European Parliament, you will also be working for us. We will measure you, we will take a very close look at what you are doing there and what you can achieve in Brussels for the Tyroleans and Tyroleans, for the whole of Austria. So far – and I am speaking to Mrs Glavischnig as well – you have simply reproached, you have never left anything good at the Minister for Transport. – He is the one who bears the responsibility and who has implemented this responsibility positively! We will see what responsibility you will bear in Brussels and what you will implement there! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We know the past – and it wasn't pink: 30 years of senseless transport policy, where nothing positive has come out, which has brought us a transit agreement to renew Hubert Gorbach, has tried to improve. – It didn’t succeed. Brussels has forced us to kneel with a dictatorship. If Mr Sima lists what this government has done badly, I have to say: What did the Social Democratic Government do exactly in connection with transport problems? If I consider the data and consider what measures this government is taking in the infrastructure sector alone – one is thinking of the rail offensive – then I have to say: The Austrians will be grateful to us – and not to the Social Democrats for the policies they have pursued in the past! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The mistakes of the past cannot be fixed within a short period of time – we know that. We strive and have put it on the rail that in the future a large-scale infrastructure package – with two too one voted for the rail – will be implemented. We should not only look at Austria, but also always bear in mind that European transport policy is going a negative path – we know it. With consent to Easter enlargement – and in this respect I must also mention you; the Tyroleans will thank you! – with the enlargement of the Easter, this increase is coming for us. This is not only to be combated by blasphemy and criticism, but it is only through a national consensus to fight against Brussels through a national power act. This must be said to the Austrians. And not only do everything bad and not always look at Austria! We are a country where tourism is maintained and where we achieve value creation, and I do not know what a German or an Italian thinks, if always said that everything in Austria is bad and health is threatened. Whether he's going to travel to us on vacation? – So there is also a need for an appropriate attitude on your part, namely that not everything is only negatively assessed. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Something that this government has done is to change the IG air. Together with Hubert Gorbachund and the Minister for the Environment, we have implemented a change in the way the national leaders are not only taken into account, but also equipped with competence. You can only look at what they can do alone with the IG air, which has been made for the permanent protection of people, health, plants, the environment! It is therefore very likely that it will be possible to take measures on the road, whether it be time or space restrictions or speed limits, and also bans or bans on the use of certain fuels could be imposed. – The national leaders are asked to do their homework and to represent it in their federal state. The framework for the protection of our people has created the League. The countries are now in demand to work in this area as well. Transport Minister Hubert Gorbach has done his homework. Now it is really the responsibility of all to implement it. I think we're on the best way. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Prince.]] Of course it is true that the costs of transport or the cost truth are issues that will have a high priority in the future. At this point, I would like to pay particular tribute to those responsible for the road pricing that we have implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4909	The final sentence, Mr Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4924	The “Süddeutsche Zeitung” wrote about the problem of toll in Austria – and this should be heard by the Austrians and all those listening here –: “Germany looks ashamed and jealously at Austria. If only this time Franz Grillparzer’s sentence had been that Austria was ‘a small world in which the great one keeps its test’...’ – This is the answer of this government to the traffic problems. Other countries look at us, what we do! Therefore, we do not need to look at Germany where a red-green government is in the process of making a mistake after another – whether in tax terms, whether in transport policy or in terms of the position it takes for people in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4951	Mr President, your speaking time has long passed. You're not talking anymore. [[I should like to congratulate the liberals and the representatives of the ÖVP on the text which leaves the speaker's seat. Wittauer.]] Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e4984	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Appreciate Members of the House! Mr Wittauer, we will unfortunately not be able to master the future with words from the poetry album – but you will probably not be there anyway. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] “Does the environment come under the wheels?” means our topic because this government does not particularly promote the environment and health. Transport policy is a particularly bad example. Take the example of the Tauern motorway, the procedure in connection with the construction of the second tubes of Katschberg- and Tauern-Tunnel [[Abg. Wattaul: Social democracy has failed!]] Ten years ago, they were to be built, but the arrants were afraid of massive traffic loads and were forced to do so. They then set up a working group in Zederhaus to involve them in the negotiations with ÖSAG. Indeed, it is not true that the ÖSAG has itself sought contact with the population. Later, even a transit forum of ÖVP mayors of the local communities was set up, because they also noticed that they were obviously not represented. [[Abg. Wattaul: Say this to the Lord One, for he was responsible.]] The ÖVP, together with the other political groups in Salzburg, has called for a binding EIA test, and the ÖSAG has already, of interest, already prepared for it, since, according to its forecasts of the EU enlargement, it has assumed that the traffic burden will increase from 15 000 to 40 000 vehicles, cars per 24 hours, even from 40 000 to 80 000 vehicles. That's what people in the Zederhaus valley have to expect, and that's why they're so angry. You can understand that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In May 2003, the working group dissolved in Zederhaus because the results were so unsatisfactory. There is still a claim paper from the Zederhauser Arbeitskreis, which is still not fulfilled. ==References====External links== March last year in Salzburg’s Landtag: “...we continue our efforts at the negotiating table... This can only be the generation treaty we are talking about, where it is clearly defined at what time what measures are being financed like. This is a contract that must be signed between all parties concerned...’ alone: There is no such thing as this treaty, of which many mayors and people already accept that he has been signed! Mr Gorbach – You are no longer there, but perhaps you will read in the Minutes – you will scatter the people’s eyes to sand – or I should rather say: Frost case? – if you claim that the year of rail development has come! - Yeah, that's very bad for the eyes, Mr. Scheuch. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Frost case... seven centimetres tall!]] That's what I think! In connection with the growth package recently announced by the Federal Government, the year 2004 was chosen as the “Year of Road Construction”. The year 2004 is to be the year of road construction, i.e. less resources for railway development, more resources for road construction! [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch]] [[Abg. Miedl: That is simply not true, Mrs. Colleague! More than ever...!]] How to become You're explaining this to the suffering-tested arrants in the Zederhaus valley, Mr Miedl? How will you explain this to them? [[Abg. Miedl: That's wrong! – 1.2 billion annually for...!]] According to calculations, it is to be feared that the new construction of the second tunnel tubes will not be calculated economically. There are some calculations that the ÖVP economic party does not take into account – it obviously knows better – that the additional costs for the second tunnel tubes will only be eliminated in 100 years, unless more trucks are wanted to be brought into the valleys and thus higher proceeds. [[Abg. Miedl: Who is interested in it? That's not true!]] It is an unworthy spectacle, ladies and gentlemen, that we are experiencing here. According to the Minister Gorbach, the extension of the Tauern motorway with new tunnels is not required under the new EIA law. However, the ÖVP head of state wants to have his complaint against this legal view purchased against a handful of silverlings. [[Abg. Wattaul: “Silverlings ”?]] – Yes, what is now? Is this EIA mandatory now or not? Millions Against Existing Laws? Non-binding commitments against securitised law? Austria already has the second most dense motorway network in the EU. [[Abg. Wattaul: Go, stop!]] At the same time, rail development is declining. – This will be completely new for you, Mr Wattaul, but it is! – Already negotiated track tours of the railway for which there has been a accompanying mediation process, as in the Gasteinertal, have disappeared with your FPÖ minister in the sinking, and this has already been done more often. [[Abg. Wattaul: Just because one has seen a few trucks, one has no idea of the transport policy yet!]] People simply lost confidence in the promises of national leaders and ministers. For example, the mayor of St. Michael knows nothing about negotiated noise protection measures, is to be read in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] We're going to a dead end, and the current government is giving a good deal of gas. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Wattaul]] They move outside existing regulations.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5152	The final sentence, Mrs Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5167	What I would like to give to Mr Mainoni, because he is so ‘qualified’ about problems of asylum seekers, is another Indian proverb for today's day, which reads: Three moons in the Mokassins of someone else allowed to be wandered first to talk about the situation of asylum seekers. So turn into the Mokassins of an asylum seekers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5205	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5225	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the response 1006/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5353	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply 1006/AB to Question 971/J by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues on aspects of the tender procedure and the recovery decision on the federal housing companies by the Federal Minister for Finance. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5378	It is proposed that the debate on points 5 to 15 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? This is not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5402	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the duration and format of the agenda's debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, Free 108 minutes, Green 117 minutes. The following speech time agreement was also reached for the debate by 1 p.m., transmitted by Austrian radio: The Federal Chancellor's declaration takes place at 20 minutes, followed by the statement by the Vice-Cancellor at 15 minutes. Then, in the joint debate, the first two speakers of each group come together with no more than 20 minutes, but individually with no more than 15 minutes. The German Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor are followed by random replicas of 5 minutes each, then one word message per group with 5 minutes each and one word per group each with 5 minutes. The remaining speaking time by 1 p.m. will be distributed by the President-in-Office before the end of the last round to the four political groups in such a way that all political groups will speak evenly. There is also agreement that actual corrections will only be called after 1 p.m. The House decides on this agreement. We shall therefore proceed to the vote immediately. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign of approval. – That is unanimously decided. That is why we are doing so. 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on “Tax relief brings recovery for business and labour”
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5447	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to make his statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5469	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I would like to thank you very much for giving me the floor to the issue of "Tax relief brings recovery for business and work". Ladies and gentlemen! When we took over government responsibility in 2000, we promised the Austrians to reorganise the budget and to carry out in Austria the reforms necessary to make Austria future-proof. And we promised in the 2003 government programme that we would reduce the tax and tax burden and relieve taxpayers. – We have both promised and we have both kept it. Our policy has literally brought us forward! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today, in 2004, we are already a percentage below the tax burden of 1999, and we will be under the burden of 1999 with the 2005 tax reform, with the second stage, two percent, i.e. the time when a Social Democratic Federal Chancellor and a Social Democratic Finance Minister had the say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If we were in the budget deficit in 2000 at 14 out of 15 EU Member States – in front of Portugal we were the second worst country – today we have overrun more than half of the EU's members, made up eight places and are now in place 6. – We have achieved a lot in a short time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would therefore like to express a warm thanks to Karl-Heinz Grasser and his State Secretary Alfred Finz for this great achievement, budget deficit and tax burden! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Members of the Greens shall keep a board up to the level on which the words “Korruption”, “intervention” and “cash”” are to be read with a common question mark.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Member Pilz, listen quietly to Karl-Heinz Grasser's record of success; it is better than your transparency which you have held up here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With a healthy and stable budget, we have created the basis for investing in boosting growth. That was very important. For three years there was a world bad economic situation, we have actually managed it quite well. We have exploited the scope of a small, interna tional and intertwined country like Austria, and we have acted in a timely and forward-looking manner. At the end of 2000, the economic researchers have significantly revised the forecasts for the coming years, and we have responded immediately. ==References== The first growth package came in September 2001. At a time when economic growth had fallen to zero for the first time in that quarter, the first growth package of this federal government came. After all, the following circumstances were significant: Growth has increased to 0.7 and 0.9 percent in the next two quarters. The forecast of the central bank for 2002 was 0.9 percent, in fact we achieved half a percent more economic growth through the first growth package. I think that was a very impressive achievement in an economically difficult time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Then, in 2002, in which we had actually planned to carry out a tax relief, the flood disaster – it has already been forgotten today, but I would like to remind them – that has caused us enormous damage to billions. At the time, we have set aside the tax reduction for all in favour of a real aid to those hundreds of thousands of Austrians who were affected by this flood disaster. And it worked! The growth package II was presented to the Council of Ministers in September 2002. It has helped to stabilise economic growth in a sustainable way and to bring us half to three-quarters of additional growth for 2003. This has been confirmed by the independent economic research institute. That is why we have acted in good time, in advance and correctly, ladies and gentlemen. Our economic policy has proved its worth. It has brought growth to Austria in difficult times, which has not succeeded in other countries such as Germany, France and Switzerland. The results of the III growth package will focus on Mr Vice-Chancellor, in particular, because it bears his handwriting on research and infrastructure. My topic is different. We are in a good situation with the results now available. Austria has twice as high growth as all other countries in the European Union. The Austrian unemployment rate is half as high as that of the EU, and our budget deficit is about one third of the European average. I believe that Austria can be seen worldwide with this balance sheet. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What matters to me is the following: We have shown that good economic policy can also be combined with a good social policy. Just think of the spectacular decisions about the new workers' care, with the old unfair handling being remodeled so that now all employees benefit from it! Today we can see the success: 850 000 workers are in this new system. I also say quite openly and expressly to the social partners that they have accompanied us in this important step. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, the second social policy step, namely the provision of the future for everyone, was equally important. Unfortunately, the SPÖ and the social partners did not go along in this case. But also this model was and is a very great success. To date, 250 000 Austrians have accepted this offer. These precautionary models and, of course, the successful privatisation policy have significantly strengthened the capital market in Austria and the stock market in Vienna. Take the facts, a global comparison: Since 2000, when I took over government responsibility, the Austrian Stock Exchange Index, the ATX, has increased by 62 percent. Four years: 62 percent plus! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For comparison: The German stock index fell by 45 percent over the same period, while the Dow Jones has recovered only by 2.4 percent since 2000. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Red-Green!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These facts make us sure! [[Abg. Heinzl: The unemployed are...!]] The policy of budget renewal, financial stability, financial security for our social and health system, pension security, unemployment insurance, the strengthening of private provision and growth policies with our economic programmes have provided the scope for us to introduce a tax reduction today, for which Vice-Cancellor Gorbach, Minister of Finance Grasser and I are responsible – a tax reform that is financially and sustainable. This is the greatest relief for taxpayers in the history of the Second Republic, and it is not financed by burdens on the other hand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! Our tax reform helps families, especially single earners and single parents. We therefore support 2.3 million families, 900 000 single earners – among them 100 000 single parents, who will benefit from it in particular. Our tax reform leads to a modern, moderate income tax rate, securing Austria's economic location and thus thousands of jobs. It supports 690 000 counterparts, especially helps small incomes and strengthens the competitiveness of our farmers. Let's make it concrete, because the audiences in front of the TV screens want to know what that means for them! First example: A single mother with two children earns grossly 800 € per month. She has not yet paid a wage tax and received 474 € negative tax as a subsidy. With our reform, this single parent will be paid out by the child supplement specifically € 779. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Trunk: 800 € are existential-proof?- Oh, my God!]] Second example: A pensioner with an average age pension of approximately €900 per month now pays €40 Income tax per year, in the future the savings amount to €481.76. This is quite a practical advantage for these pensioners with an average pension. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Third example – because it is always claimed that the small, the medium-sized entrepreneurs did not benefit – I deliberately take a medium-sized example: A typical small entrepreneur has organized his business in the form of a capital company, a GesmbH, for example an electric dealer with seven employees and an apprentice. He has a profit of about €20 000 a year. In 2005 – Mr. Tax Advisor – he will experience a Köst reduction of €1 800. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] That's a real help to these middle-sizers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Fourth example – because it is said that there is a difference between the capital company and the individual company –: An entrepreneur, an installer with eight employees, i.e. not a large one, but a typical medium-sized person at the corner, with a master, an apprentice and a technician, has a profit of € 45 000 a year. He cleverly leaves a third of his profits in the operation and thus strengthens the equity and operation. His discharge will be €5,773 in the year. This is a real help to strengthen this business and jobs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dear Fritz Grillitsch! We don't want to forget the farmers. A farmer with an area of 20 hectares, with five hectares of meadow and 18 hectares of forest has a diesel consumption – he has to travel a lot – of 2,500 litres a year; this is not so crazy. It is relieved by the introduction of the agricultural diesel by at least €500 a year. It's not bad, it's a real help. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With a volume of €3 billion, this is the biggest tax reform in history for the years 2004 and 2005, even if you don't like to hear about the opposition! The facts – you don't need to argue about them – are the following: The famous and good Lacina/Dez-Reform brought a tax relief of €250 per capita in 1994. [[Abg. Brosz: A great comparison in absolute numbers! “Great”!]] The Edlinger reform in 1999, five years later, brought 350 € per head. The Grasser/Finz-Reform 2004 and 2005 brings 500 € per head. The comparison makes us sure, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let me also say quite openly: This tax reform has not only a discharge effect, because obviously everyone pays less taxes than more, but ultimately it is always about jobs in economic and location policy. Now I'm telling you something that's very important to me: With this tax reform, we want to secure the upswing and the jobs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I was in Styria yesterday, in Schladming, with this gigantic night slalom, which Benni Raich, an Austrian, has won. I met Magna's boss, Sigi Wolf. And Sigi Wolf told me something very important yesterday: This tax reform, which reduces taxes, will only create 1,000 additional jobs in Styria this year in the vicinity of Gleisdorf. That is the effect of this reform! – Member of the European Parliament! [[Lively congratulation with the ÖVP and congratulation with the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] Excuse me, these are the messages that are needed: Hope for the people! I made calls today in the early days with a not very unknown economic leader, namely Wolfgang Eder, the Director-General of the Voest. I asked him how this reform will affect the Linz site, for example. [[Don't call the SPÖ:Gar!]] His concrete answer – I can say this with his permission – was: The voestalpine, a key company for Austria, will in the near future create additional jobs at Linz 550. Thank you, Wolfgang Eder! Thank you, Voest! [[Lively applause and bravado with the ÖVP as well as congratulation with the liberals.]] This shows, of course, that not only does this tax reduction bring something to everyone, but it also brings something nationally. And the independent economic research institute yesterday presented a study on the effects of this tax reduction. That's what came out... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – You don’t like to hear that, I know, but the spectators hear it and thus the public, and that’s important, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As a result of this tax reduction, additional economic growth of 0.4 percent will be expected next year and additional economic growth of half a percent will be expected in 2006. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Why not next year?]] That means quite specifically 4,000 to 5,000 additional jobs, even 12 000 jobs in the long term! That's important! This is the message for you at home to the TV screens, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The work for Austria, which was done by this Federal Government, was quite specific: With regard to the budget deficit, we have taken Austria away from the last place and have come far forward. We are in the tax burden below that at the time when the Social Democrats had the say. We make the tax burden much lower for each Austrian. And also in the civil and modern administration, at the eGovernment, Austria has catapulted itself considerably forward. We made seven places within a year. We've already moved to fourth place. In comparison with the other EU countries, we had a place in 9th place with the competition data in 2000. Today, according to the Commission's report, we have a third place. I am very pleased that Austria has made this leap. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are continuing this process of success with the tax reform. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a good place to invest. Austria is a good place to work. Austria is a good place to live. We're working to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5771	I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor for his statement and now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor. 15 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5789	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate spectators at home! ==References====External links== The first stage of the 2004/2005 tax reform was put into effect by January. The year 2004 has also started well and has gone well, because this dynamic federal government has already agreed a few days later, as regards the second major stage of this tax reform, namely for the benefit of the population, especially for the benefit of families and, as we have already heard, also for the benefit of location security and thus for the benefit of job creation and job security. That was very important to us! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin with a quote, but not a famous man, but a good, successful Austrian entrepreneur! It is from the chairman of the ÖIAG Supervisory Council and well-known entrepreneur Alfred Heinzel, who wrote a letter to me shortly after this agreement on the key points of the 2005 tax reform. I have his permission to quote from it a sentence that says very much about the reliability of this tax reform: As an entrepreneur and citizen, I can congratulate the tax reform. You can assume that I am motivated to continue investing in Austria. - Quote. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What pleased me when I asked him today – because it was heard – whether I could quote it was that he told me in addition, in the effect that he had already made the decision to double the capacity at the Pöls plant in Styria on the basis of this reform of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Heinzl: Have you heard from employees?]] 150 to 200 million € in investment are decided! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the tax reform to be decided this year, we are setting the second stage of the largest tax reform in the Second Republic, making the Austrian economic location more attractive than ever. Let me summarise the objectives behind this reform as follows: These are the strengthening of the growth potential, the improvement of location attractiveness and the relief of the labour factor. This can also be achieved with the measures of € 650 million previously. Then comes the improvement of the capital base, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises, the increase in purchasing power, the increase in tax justice and the simplification of the tax system. This is not an easy undertaking. This is a difficult task, but it has succeeded us without counter-financing. And this is also something special that belongs once mentioned! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Let me also mention that the increase in income for families was a special concern for us! A large number of studies have demonstrated and brought to light that the poverty-threatening group in Austria is particularly the 900 000 single earners and single earners, of which 100 000 are single educators. We have therefore given particular attention to this group in order to relieve it. In this sense, we have introduced the child supplements to the single-earner and single-parent drop-off amount. Since the single-earner or single-earner deduction amount can lead to a negative tax, the negative tax for this target group is also increased. With the child supplement season – 130 € for the first child, 175 € for the second child, 220 € for the third child or for any other child – and the increase in the amount of earnings from 4 400 € to at least 6 000 €, this government has proved that it is not only a reform government but also a family government, and that is important. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I do not need to stress in particular that this measure, namely the increase in the rate of pay, is particularly beneficial to women, who are known to earn less on average and who fall particularly in the group of single and single educators. What's the great thing about the whole thing – it's not enough yet –: These family policies, which benefit women and families in particular, are already valid for the whole of 2004. A good year! [[Complaints and prejudices in the liberals as well as in the case of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor, whom I would like to thank on this occasion for the really swift, at any time constructive and goal-oriented negotiation in recent weeks, has already pointed out that our path is the right one. I also believe that we have taken the right course and have done well not to discuss via media and to align ourselves with one another, what one might want and what one might or perhaps not have achieved, but to have a goal-oriented approach to strengthening Austria's economic location, ensuring jobs and creating new ones, and above all, that the lower and medium-sized levels of income are discharged in about the same size – all, as I said, without counter-financing. We have done this quickly and quickly and decided at the beginning of the new year, and I am actually proud of it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have already heard the effects of economic growth on GDP; this is also confirmed by the Wifo. However, it is good to remember these figures once again because they show that this government also has a far-reaching view that it is able, in difficult situations, to adopt such measures without counter-financing and without exceeding certain deficit limits, such measures that it is acting. In 2002, Austria had an economic growth of 1.4 percent, the euro zone of 0.9 percent, France one of 1.2 percent, Italy one of 0.4 percent, Germany one of 0.2 percent. [[Abg. May. Hans Moser:... OECD!]] In 2003, as we heard, it was 0.9 percent in Austria, 0.4% in the euro zone, 0.1% in France, 0.3% in Italy and 0.0% in Germany. [[Abg. May. Hans Moser:... in Denmark and Sweden!]] For 2004, the forecast for Austria is 1.9 percent, for France 1.7 percent, for Italy 1.3 percent, for Germany 1.6% and for the Euro zone 1.9 percent. [[Abg. May. Hans Moser:... OECD!]] So we are all over it, ladies and gentlemen, and I too am very happy to say, in view of this: The comparison makes us sure! We'll keep going! Because the details of the second, but also the first stage of the tax reform have already been discussed and known, I can also look beyond that and mention the accompanying measures already decided and put forward in advance. As Minister of Research, I am proud that in Austria, when I get started, we have been able to increase the research and development contribution in terms of the research rate on GDP, so that we are now among the top 5 of all innovation countries in Europe. We are in the best way to do this by setting the following two priorities: First of all, we are conducting a structural change by giving the research and development landscape in Austria a new structure, that is to say, locally bringing everything under control and reducing bureaucracy and administration, creating more transparency and working even more closely with the economy active in the research field, and with industry, but also with the federal states; this is something that seems very important to me. The second priority may be even more important, even more serious, namely that of making the financial resources available accordingly, and I can only thank my colleague, Mr Grasser, who had great understanding of this. He likes to be convinced of numbers, and he has also agreed or participated in them and is also responsible for them. But he has also contributed to Austria – ladies and gentlemen – listening! – in the Central European Zone with Spain and Portugal, with regard to the framework conditions for research funding is at the forefront, i.e. number one. That's what makes me proud! [[Complaints and prejudices in the liberals as well as in the case of the ÖVP.]] Austria, in particular, has created a really attractive incentive system for researchers through action 25/8, i.e. 25 percent investment-free – this is a huge increase – and 8 percent investment premium. It did well to hear, from the mouth of one of the well-known researchers who came back from the great world, from the USA, that Austria is a good research country, as Dr. Penninger said yesterday in an interview on television. He said, however, that it was also necessary to create the appropriate infrastructure – even the road he mentioned – for this purpose. America has already seen much earlier that a good research country needs a good infrastructure, and the road is part of it. I was glad that this said a research capacity like Dr. Penninger. But back to the research landscape and the framework conditions in Austria: We have added one more incentive to the attractive incentive system by increasing the expenditure for research in the years to 2006 by no less than €1.2 billion, within the framework of the R&D offensive € 600 million, € 3 times € 125 million in the framework of the National Foundation, of which € 100 million is fresh money, i.e. new money. That's €300 million. In addition, € 3 times € 100 million for the research release, 300 million under Action 25/8. This is €1.2 billion, and if you use this money properly in the economic area and thus achieve the leverage effect, then I hope that we will achieve the goal I have set up or operated by us to have a research rate of 2.5 percent of GDP in 2006. This is expected to be 3.0 percent in 2010. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] By the way, of course, this support programme and the tax reform also include the fact that, in addition to the supply-side incentive for broadband access, we have already decided to provide demand-side support. On the supply side, an investment of €10 million is also being made, which is expected to make up €30 million from the EU structural funding programme and €10 million from the countries. In rural areas in particular, it is intended to support the fast Internet that supports broadband initiative. We thus prove that we have in mind not only the agglomerations, but also the rural areas, where many small entrepreneurs need it – one-man, two-man businesses – that they also want to promote, so remember. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already dealt with construction investment in the course of the interesting debate at the current hour. It remains to be said, therefore, that € 850 million was invested in the expansion of the rail in 2003 – that is as much as never before! – in the extension of the road € 1 billion – that is as much as never before! – and the most beautiful thing about it is that this year, with a total of €2.1 billion in 2004 we will achieve an increase of 23 percent, in addition to the tax reform and all the measures such as the reorganisation of the budget. – Someone in Europe should do this first! Austria does not need to shyen the comparison, but rather makes us really proud, also in the field of investment. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have already mentioned in the debate during the current hour, which took place in the early days, that we are also trying to get international grants, to achieve co-financing for important infrastructure projects. I have mentioned in this context the €12.27 billion approved for five programmes under the so-called Trans-European Networks. These are investments that will also have a positive impact on Austria's economic location and on the employment situation in Austria. We have been discussing the international problem, which, of course, does not pass by us, here in the House of Commons. Let me say today that there are studies, according to which every billion that is invested in infrastructure in a country will bring about 14,000 to 18,000 new jobs. [[Abg. Gradwell: Why don't you invest anymore?]] This too must be taken into account! In this way, it is a far-sighted, good measure to increase these investments and thus strengthen Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am convinced that we are on the right track, and if that is what the Minister of Transport tells you, then that is of particular importance. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Do not be angry with me if I finally quote again, an American politician who once said very well on the subject of "taxes": We can never be popular with taxation, but we can make it fair! – This federal government is there!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e5986	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for his statement. We are now entering the debate on both statements. The speaking time is decided and known. Mr Gusenbauer was the first Member to speak. Requested time: 12 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6010	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The long promised tax reform, which has been postponed twice, is now to become a reality in 2005, and it is possible to sum up all that has been presented here: This tax reform comes too late, brings too little and is a far-reaching opportunity for the Austrian population! [[Abg. Steibl: The SPÖ comes too late!]] [[further intermediate calls as well as ironic cheerfulness at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In times of the greatest economic downturn, where it would have been urgently necessary to strengthen income, where it would have been urgently necessary to increase investment, the Federal Government has always said: We cannot do the tax reform because we cannot afford it! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Now this Federal Government is presenting a tax reform and says: The advantage is that there is no counter-financing! To this end, I would like to say: This advantage will only be of very short duration, because the effect of a tax reform without counter-financing is obvious, namely: You will deliberately increase the budget deficit! Therefore, there is no economic reason for this tax reform, but only a political justification. But this is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] After the “wonderful ” praises that we may have heard from you earlier, we should now come to the facts. The Federal Chancellor has told us which companies will now invest enormously. [[Bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] Just one example so that one can verify the truth content of his statement: The voestalpine launched its investment programme “Voest 2010” four years ago and has invested millions and millions of euros. It has already reached the third stage of expansion of its investment, and it continues consistently its investments four years ago. Due to your corporate tax reduction, no more euro will be invested in Linz. – Don’t lie to people constantly, Federal Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6074	Mr Gusenbauer, the accusation of the lie would be a reason for a call for order. I suppose you want to take this accusation back.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6092	Mr President. I am so outraged about such false facts because the comparison makes sure: If all these great investments take place when this blessed impact on the labour market is present, how is it that we have the highest level of unemployment of 330 000 people in Austria this year!? – This is the scandal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the ÖVP:In Vienna!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Continued to talk about the fate of people, to constantly deny the facts, to conceal reality with false figures, that is not an honest debate and not an honest policy! In view of the successes of the past few years, I must say to you: The truth is that Austria has fallen back to fourth place in the European Union as far as economic performance per capita. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Don't make Austria bad!]] There is no reason for self- praise, but that would be enough reason for finally starting a turnaround in politics! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The truth is that at the beginning of the year pension increases have led the pensioners to have less in the bag than last year, because the 10 € from you have not even been enough to cover the increased health insurance contributions – let alone a bill of inflation. But you praise this as a great social policy achievement! They're making themselves up today, saying, The reduction in pensions we decided last year was a great social policy achievement! I'll tell you: They present millions of Austrians with many material and insoluble problems for many people! This is the result of your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A tax reform at this time should have relieved the labour factor. [[Abg. Murauer: Now the program is coming!]] This would have been a tax reform that would have really led to the strengthening of employment. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Empty words!]] But with this in your tax reform, the labour factor with no single euro, ladies and gentlemen, and 80 percent of all Austrian companies will have nothing to do with this tax reform! The winners of this tax reform, such as Mr Bartenstein or Mr Prinzhorn, will gain much in this tax reform, but the installers, tailors, shakers and craftsmen you quoted will not remain much. That is why this tax reform is a step in the wrong direction, it is too expensive and far too little! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as family promotion is concerned, too, boast because now the single-earner discount is increased. I ask you: Is the fact that despite one of the world's most generous family promotion systems, the birth rate in Austria is unfortunately not going up, not even a reason for consideration? [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: How many children do you have?]] Do you not think that despite additional financial incentives? Because there is a central lack: enough childcare facilities to ensure that the profession and family are compatible? In this tax reform, instead of using €250 million for the single-earner discount, you could have created 60,000 childcare places in Austria and financed them on a sustainable basis. That would have been a much better way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But the most beautiful sentence of Mr Vice-Chancellor was when he said that Mr Grasser's Minister of Finance was impressed by figures. I have the impression that he was very easily mistaken in his formulation, because this Minister of Finance can be impressed by few figures, but rather by payments, from such to him himself. This is also reflected in this tax reform! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That was under the belt line!]] That those who are the sponsors and financiers of his private homepage are at the same time the main beneficiaries of this tax reform and that the Secretary-General of the Industrial Union says even to the public: After the investment in the website of Mr. Grasser has really retired!, shows clearly what attitude there is behind it. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: This tax reform does not bring anything to many, some little and few very much! – This is the wrong way of tax reform! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You have read the wrong paper!]] In an interview Mr Stumvoll pointed out an important point when he meant that this tax reform would bring too little benefit to the beneficiaries. I asked myself: What does he mean by that? – It is only necessary to look at the tax reform and it will be noted that Mr Stumvoll was not so wrong at all. If this tax reform increases progression in Austria and therefore every employee who makes an additional overtime must already deliver more than 50 percent to the Minister of Finance in the future, then, ladies and gentlemen, it is not very motivating for people to be more and more dedicated to the Minister of Finance for additional income. It would have been better to alleviate this progression and not to tighten it up. That would have been the better way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The question is as follows: Will the Austrians in future pay the bill for this tax reform – or have they already paid it? The truth is that in recent years, at least the workers and pensioners have been taxed significantly more than they are now being taxed by this tax reform. I suspect that, after the bill remains open and the budget deficit is going to rise, the burdens will only come. ==References====External links== In June, as a compensation for the tax reform demand self retention in the health system, this Federal Government will make further cuts in the education sector, this federal government will, after the elections of the population, present the bill for this tax reform. [[Abg. Rossmann: You confuse Austria with Germany, I think!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They have missed a very big opportunity, because if you take so much money into your hands for a tax reform, then more people in our country should have something of it, then the labour factor should be relieved, then real economic investment should be stimulated. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: All benefit!]] What you have presented here is no more and no less than a plumpe propaganda action before the country elections. March. The population notices this and is therefore voting. A number of studies have shown that the citizen says: I will not have anything from this tax reform, and most likely the burdens that will be met will be significantly higher than what the tax reform brings. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The electoral day will be the payday, and the Austrian population will present the bill for this wrong path. And that's right.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6324	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes; the first two speakers of a political group together have 20 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6349	Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have problems with what I read in a weekly magazine, in a weekly magazine, relatively often – I say it quite openly. This week I had no problem with this weekly magazine as a headline to Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer read: ‘Genosse Zick-Zack’. Yes: Comrade Zick-Zack, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer! – Today’s speech is proof of this – with a single open question: whether Comrade Gusenbauer has been at Zick or at Zack today. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] In any case, it is proof, Mr. Gusenbauer, that you are indeed in line with your reputation as SPÖ's zigzag politician. Ladies and gentlemen! These facts, which determine Austrian economic policy, cannot be taken away. [[Abg. Silhavy:... embarrassing!]] The fact is that this tax relief with a volume of €3 billion is the largest tax relief in the Second Republic, a relief that secures work and economic location in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” (Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung), a well-respected German newspaper with a high reputation, is written on 12 May. year(s) [[Abg. Gradwelt:... of capitalism!]] “Austria’s conservative government has achieved a large throw with its draft tax reform.” ÖVP and FPÖ have been “performing the greatest discharge since 1945 with their discharge plans.” – quote from the ‘FAZ’; Recognition by a large, renowned German newspaper. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the growth package and the economic package – this is also a fact; the figures speak for themselves – a total of €4 billion will be moved: 3 billion in tax relief and 1 billion in favour of boosting the economy, for economic and research measures. Dr. Gusenbauer, you have claimed here that there is nothing to do with the relief of the labour factor. That's wrong! ==References== In January of this year, additional wage costs for older workers will be reduced by € 140 million, ladies and gentlemen. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This, of course, will have a positive impact on the labour market, especially in relation to a difficult group, the older workers. Speaking of the labour market. – Mr Gusenbauer, you have addressed the labour market situation. Well, I can't go over to the agenda here, but I told you last time: Look at your own door! In December, more than 70 percent of the increase in the unemployment rate in Austria was caused in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] But now you hear and marvel: This figure, which is known to me to account for this increase of 70 percent, from Vienna, is not yet the tip. I hear that the increase of the month is caused by almost 100 percent in Vienna and Vienna, a socially democratic country! [[Call the SPÖ: What about the Federal Government?]] This too is a fact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It is also today criticised by the opposition of the time when we implement tax relief. I ask you: How would you like it? . We are giving discharge at an absolutely right time, ladies and gentlemen, and we are all responsible for strengthening the emerging upturn in the economy. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] – The right signal at the right time! Ladies and gentlemen! The consequences and related issues of enlargement of the European Union for Austria's economic location have also been discussed. ==References== The European Union will be enlarged in May. Especially now, it is right to send such a signal, to carry out location and job security through a tax reform at the time of EU enlargement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That means: When, if not now?, is the motto of this tax reform. Ladies and gentlemen! It is said that it would not all benefit from this tax reform. The opposite is true: All those who pay tax were relieved. This is the result of our fair and socially just tax reform! Why? – First of all, even more people are relieved from the pay and income tax obligation. In addition, 350 000 Austrians will no longer pay wage and income tax at first and second stages. [[Abg. May. Worm: Because they deserve too little!]] This is a total of 2.55 million or 45 percent of all taxpayers who will no longer pay wage and income tax. – This is fact, ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, Of course, this fair and socially fair tariff will mean that the entire range of taxpayers in the wage and income tax sector will also be reduced, with a focus on small and medium-sized incomes and, of course, also on performance providers. And thirdly, ladies and gentlemen – and this irritates me, I tell you very openly, because you just can't put off your ideological scams here; that's the truth! –: We help families where we have always faced a particular poverty situation with single parents or single earners in families with several children. There we help because there is a need for help. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Put off your left ideology! Help where help is needed! - We'll do it. Ladies and gentlemen! This is therefore a fair tax reform which is socially balanced and fair. Some examples of this. I have looked at the example of a single parent with two children, who has a monthly gross income of €1 300. For this single parent, the effects of the tax reform would mean that, with the increased child surcharges for single parents and single earners, she was charged €876 in 2005. So: 876 € discharge! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In order for you to imagine what this means practically, we today from the Austrian People's Party have converted this 876 € into twelve full carts so that people can also see what you have more for 876 € per month to daily life. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have done this and will make the content of this shopping cart available to a children's village of the SOS, so that this practical evidence is also provided. We help where aid is really necessary, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Or, next example: a single pensioner with a monthly gross income of 1 000 €. It has so far paid €788 to tax per year. In the future she will pay 144 €. – A discharge of 644 € by our tax reform, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another example: a working couple without children; monthly income of the man 2 300 €, the woman 1 200 €. So far, both together have paid €5 481 tax. In the future they will be relieved by 807 €. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] – This is the reality, and that is social, fair and just, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They say it would not relieve small and medium-sized enterprises. The truth looks different: As a result of the first stage, especially the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are individual companies, and the second stage, of course, also benefit capital companies. Ladies and gentlemen! The “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” writes this week – and this is very interesting – starting from the 34 percent increase in the ATX guide index, which highlights the Vienna market very massively, on the one hand, that the full privatisation of Böhler-Uddeholm and Voest was correct, despite the opposition politicians’ counters – stands between brackets: Social democrats and Greens – and on the other hand, that the performance on the stock exchange, which is expected to be strongly increased, is justified by this tax reform of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is offensive economic policy, as confirmed by the Wifo in the study on tax reform: The tax reform has a positive impact on growth, and more jobs are being created in Austria by tax reform. – This is the reality, these are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. No counter-financing – unlike SPÖ, which wanted to raise the basic tax, the inheritance tax, the gift tax and everything possible. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] This tax reform means simplification and, of course, a massive fight against tax fraud. This tax reform bears the handwriting of a successful German government, led by German Chancellor Schüssel and Vice Chancellor Gorbach. This tax reform bears the handwriting of a successful Finance Minister, Karl-Heinz Grasser, and his State Secretary Alfred Finz. This tax reform will greatly strengthen the offensive economic policy of this Federal Government. The budget will continue to be in order. This federal government is setting the growth impulses, and the citizens and the economy are relieved in the interests of economy and work. – This is a successful and good policy for people in this country, and I am proud of it, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6572	The remaining time of the ÖVP to 20 minutes is 7.5 minutes. The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen with a voluntary time limit of 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6596	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Molterer, let's get down a little bit! Do you know what I had on the beautiful sign you had here, where, if I remember correctly, it was called less taxes – thanks for the memory aid: less taxes, more money to life – don't like it? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you want it again?]] [[Call the ÖVP:More money to life!]] – They suggest that taxes are a little anti-life. Of course: I don't like to pay taxes either, you don't like to pay taxes, no one likes to pay taxes, but I pay for it: Taxation is necessary in order to finance certain important, essential, forward-looking public tasks. That must be too. [[We welcome the Greens and the ÖVP, as well as representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I say quite frankly to you: In the field of universities, in the field of research and development, in the field of the reconstruction of the entire education system, from kindergartens to adult education, we have enormous demand – and this will cost the state a little, not only the private. And I think, Mr Molterer, it is a bit of a political leadership, too, to tell the people that these taxes do not all disappear in a black hole, but are used for the following. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] And that's why we, the Greens, think your 2.5 billion are too much. We could have agreed on about half of the wage and income tax and set the priority there for lower and lower incomes, up to the median income. [[Abg. Wittauer: But there will be joy for the women who are single teachers...!]] You do not want to hear that now, but this is an honest programme that does not break a hole in the budget, a programme that makes it possible for us, at the latest after the next elections, not to have the problems again: in education, in kindergartens, in the conditions of female employment. If you take women's employment seriously, as you have said today, please do not increase the male single-earner discount rate. That's absurd! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: It's the same for both! It's sex-neutral!]] Something else goes to me on the “Keks”, Mr. Molterer: this term from the “service providers”. With these "service carriers" you always mean only people beyond 50 000 € annual income, with the highest limit rate. Who else? I know enough simple people, without academic education, without Matura, who are really hard to do, but still do their job within the scope of their possibilities. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I would have liked you to set priorities – clear priorities and not simply a tax reduction programme across the meadow. If you had set a priority for employment policy, then you would have had to devote yourself to the price of work, then you would have had to reduce the amount of pay, then you should have taken care of the female employment rate or the conditions for women to agree on work and family, in particular child rearing, and not just in the single wage reduction rate. If you had set growth priorities – sustainable, not short-term – then you should not have overlooked that we still need great attention in the field of research and development expenditure of the economy, the industry. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Growth Package!]] – growth package. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You have greatly praised that! That's what you welcomed!]] If that's all you've packed so far, if you expect it to bring higher growth on the post-post, then good night! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In the field of research and development, you know as well as I do, the common objective of all four parliamentary parties is: 2.5 percent until 2006. That is another two years, and it lacks half a percentage point of GDP. That sounds so little, but – only for the listeners – that's 1 billion € per year! And you give the capital companies just as 1 billion by reducing the cost!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You know what I did? I would have said: Okay, guys, let's talk about reducing corporate tax. But what about your contribution to research and development expenditure? Secondly, what about this industrial union campaign against the Kyoto targets? Is that what you're finally doing or not? – I would have agreed on this with the Industrial Union. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The achievement of the Kyoto objectives, i.e. the climate agreement, will cost industry perhaps €10 million a year, and it will receive €1 billion a year by reducing corporate tax. Is there any agreement that this might also be taken into account? - No, there's no such thing as that. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's not true!]] We are already wondering how the industrial association can now say with a certain right that this € 280 000 – as far as we know today, perhaps it will be even more – for the Finance Minister's homepage was the best-in-house investment in the history of the Industrial Union. I can't even dispute that. There are no such returns anywhere else. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You, Mr Molterer, have today suggested by the side – yesterday it was also in the APA – that tax fraud will also be part of this tax reform programme. – Well, nice, I’m excited about it and, of course, support it first a priority. In Germany, the tax downturn is estimated at €20 billion in sales tax alone through systematic tax fraud. For the usual conversion, this means € 2 billion in Austria. Even half of it is still one billion €. But there is also someone behind me who for seven months remains guilty of any information about how he holds it with his tax policy statements, with his own tax declarations and with the tax declarations of the “United of the friends of the incense for Karl-Heinz Grasser”. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For seven months now, we've been waiting for an explanation of this affair. Mr Scheibner from the FPÖ! Karl-Heinz Grasser was one of you once, but you take care of it. Karl-Heinz Grasser is suspected of having reduced personal charges by means of lectures by banks and other institutions, and this association, whose head is known to be his chief of the cabinet and whose auditor is the highest tax officer of the Ministry of Finance, is liable to pay tax. [[Abg. Wattaul: Are you a judge?]] That says the majority of the judges of the administrative court, the tax attorney and so on, only Mr Finz says that everything is fine; Mr Finz, who is now serving us as a candidate for the Office of the President of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: For God's sake!]] But I would like to tell you what I find even worse than this tax story, Mr Molterer and Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: I haven't said anything yet!]] The fact that there is an urgent suspicion of tax evasion is clear, but what is almost worse: Imagine this behavior tearing down! Take, for example, who is present? – the Minister of Defence, who, among other things, has to obtain arms. For example, Daimler-Benz could set up a "union of the friends of the promotion of arms" and the Minister of Defence would come up with the idea of setting up a homepage. Will Mr. Platter come to this idea? – I hope not! And why not? - Because that would put him in a clear suspicion of corruption. He's so hot and he doesn't do it. Or Mr Bartenstein, the Minister for Economic Affairs. Is it the idea that a homepage might be sponsored by the OMV or by the gas industry or by whoever? I hope not. And why not? – Because it must then be considered caught in each action. If he then took a measure, for example, in the field of the liberalisation of the gas industry, he was opposed to a direct or indirect suspicion of corruption. Or in agriculture. Mr Molterer, would you, as Minister for Agriculture, have the idea of being directly sponsored by Raiffeisen? If there is a reduction in the tax on mineral oil in the agricultural diesel, you would have to put yourself on the suspicion of corruption. - Of course you didn't. And, and, and, you could now cite every single ministry as an example. The provision of the forbidden gift acceptance has its reason. Together with the non-low incomes of the ministers – I think this is all right; I think that the Federal Ministers should be properly paid – they should ensure that they do not become immune, but immaterial, against bribery attempts. The ban on the acceptance of gifts also, of course, has the purpose and the purpose of not even putting off the minister's suspicion of corruption. But this is all right with the Minister of Finance. It's all right if he takes lecture fees directly or indirectly. I don't care what account these countries are on, but banks – these are the ones supervised by the Ministry of Finance and not anyone; Banks are subject to supervision by the Ministry of Finance – pay something to anyone if the Minister of Finance gives a lecture?- Oh, my God! You would say to the Minister of Defence, to the Minister of Economic Affairs, to the Minister of Agriculture: Please, my colleague, this is impossible, let it be! And just to the Minister of Finance did you tolerate that? I'll tell you: This suspicion of corruption, in which he goes through this course of action and through the non-reconnaissance for more than seven months, is a risk to my location. This cannot be offered to Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6823	The remaining speaking time for the next speaker of the Greens is therefore 9 minutes. Mr Scheibner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e6846	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It was quite honest what we heard from the two representatives of the opposition parties here. Mr Van der Bellen, who unfortunately did not deal with the growth package and the tax reform in his entire speech, meant that this tax relief was too high, and Mr Gusenbauer meant that he lacked the counter-financing. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, we have deliberately developed a higher tax relief than you may love from the greens. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, we have deliberately renounced counter-financing, tax increases. The programme of the Austrian Federal Government for the last four years was to reorganise first the record debt mountain that the SPÖ-led government has left to us and then to ensure that, in the event of a declining economic situation, appropriate economic-invigorating measures are also put in place. And now that we have fulfilled these tasks, where we have also created the margin in the budget for them, we can massively reduce the admittedly high tax and tax rate. – This is the policy of the Federal Government over the last four years, and you have little to do with this, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer! We do not want to raise the inheritance tax, as you have suggested. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I did not propose that!]] But your party! What do you mean, don't you? Do you have to distinguish between what the leader of the Social Democratic Party says and what the party means? Has the gap between you and the party become so great that you have to make this distinction, Mr. Gusenbauer? I know you wanted the counter-financing. Tax increases in inheritance tax, asset tax and property tax. But, ladies and gentlemen, what does an increase in the basic tax mean? That does not mean – as you might say in your ideological world view – that any real estate owners have to pay more for their possessions. No, no, no, You know very well that an increase in the basic tax also affects every tenant, every rentalr, because this is overworked over the operating costs. And that's not what we want, ladies and gentlemen. This is what social democracy wants – perhaps not the chairman, but the Social Democratic Party with its tax concepts. [[Abg. May. Hans Moser: Bullshit!]] We said no. Now is the time for the greatest tax relief in recent years and decades. More than €3 billion for taxpayers! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenbauer, you have said: many nothing, some little and few very much. [[Abg. May. Hans Moser: That's the way it is!]] Almost two and a half million Austrians who will not pay taxes in the future, 350 000 more than before, are few, is that nothing, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: They don't pay anything yet!]] Is that nothing, or is it little if this tax reform relieves all taxpayers, except all taxpayers, Mr Gusenbauer? [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's wrong!]] And is that nothing if we put a special emphasis on the families again? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Wrong way!]] They say, "The wrong way." Exactly in this we distinguish – thank God! – from you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We want to give women and families freedom of choice, whether they return to work as quickly as possible, or whether they want to devote themselves more to the education of their children by means of state aid. Childcare facilities – that is right and important, not a question, but you want to force women into the work process because they cannot afford to stay at home with the children according to your models. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Why don't you do anything?]] We have given the families more than € 1 billion per year with the childcare allowance. We now release €200 million per year for the families with the increase in single-earner deposits. This gives the families freedom of choice, ladies and gentlemen! This is a liberal concept, that is the concept of this federal government – that is not a social democratic concept in family policy – and we are proud of that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Proud of the wrong path!]] Mr Gusenbauer, you are saying that what the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor have done here in terms of economic promotion is not right and Voest has been working on a large investment programme for four years. Yes, of course she does, and thus you also confirm the course of this federal government, because – perhaps you have already forgotten it, but this day is now the fourth time soon – this black and blue Federal Government started its work four years ago and has once again created hope for the economic location of Austria, also for as large and good businesses as the Voest. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: No one can see that!]] You keep attracting these good businesses for your election propaganda and uncertain the people, that is your policy. . We create peace, we create consistency, we create trust, even in the economy, and therefore the reduction of corporate tax that you refuse is also important in order to restore confidence for the Austrian economic location. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This was important, especially now – you know, ladies and gentlemen – shortly before the enlargement of the European Union, where strategic decisions are made in the Group headquarters: Are you staying in Austria or are you going to surrounding countries where the corporate tax rate has so far been much lower than in Austria? – In addition to all other economic measures, the reduction of corporate tax is important and is done at the right time. Mr Van der Bellen, you seem to believe that the public has a short memory. You now demand investment measures, you now demand invigorating measures in the economy. You yourself have largely welcomed the growth package we discussed here a few weeks ago. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's not a end!]] It should not be forgotten that this is a package that includes tax relief, economic promotion and investment promotion. billions of investment in research and development, billions of investment in infrastructure! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Tell the young scientists!]] You don't want all of this to happen, ladies and gentlemen. We are thus creating the framework conditions for businesses in Austria to be able to run well again and thus to create stable jobs. This is the policy of this federal government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! We know their concepts, the concepts of the nineties, we know where they led. If you say, This tax reform is too high, it increases the deficit!, then it is really interesting, because: such a high deficit as you did in the nineties without tax relief, 3.5 percent of the gross domestic product, we will probably not reach even with five tax reforms. That was your policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That's not just what we're saying. You only need to look at the Court of Auditors reports of the time when your structural adjustment laws were also assessed in 1996, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Hans Moser: Read these today!]] You don't like to hear that, but you have to keep doing that again and again and tell the people where such concepts lead, because we know all of that. [[Abg. May. Hans Moser: snow from yesterday!]] – Snow from yesterday, but we had to clear away this snow that you, ladies and gentlemen, have scattered on the streets of Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Court of Auditors believes that your actions in the 1990s have dampened growth in Austria, reduced personal income available, and increased the unemployment rate, which has also been more socially weak. – That was your policy, ladies and gentlemen! We represent a policy that relieves everyone that has all the advantages and that the economy also deserves the necessary framework conditions for such development. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Completely wrong!]] [[Abg. May. Hans Moser: 330,000 unemployed!]] Complete nonsense was your policy back then: To make debt, to grant election sugar, which has not caused anything at all, even no election success on your part, but which we then had to finance, like the tax reform of 2000. That was your policy – thank God it is different now! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand... [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I think you should stick to the truth!]] Yes, for the truth in these questions, you are the best lawyer. They say: Electoral day is payday. I must say that in your policy, the payday always took place after the elections, because only then did the bitter truth, Mr Jarolim, prove itself: The elections prior to the elections only led to the fact that, after the elections, the taxes which have been increased. That's how you do it in those federal states in which you have the say. This tax reform, prepared by Haider and Grasser, ladies and gentlemen, is a truly epochal package, and unfortunately you have nothing to add and do not oppose! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That's your problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Finally, Mr Puswald, I have been waiting for your calls. Unfortunately, you have not become more understandable because you are still in the last row. Perhaps this will change sometime in the future. I don't understand anything either, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: Why do you have to do anything bad in Austria? Why is everything bad, what's happening here? Why is everything so terrible? – You don’t want to hear the international comparison. Austria is a beautiful country, ladies and gentlemen, a beautiful country with great citizens, with great people who do something, a beautiful country with a great economy that now also finds the framework conditions, a beautiful country with an active and operational government, by ÖVP and FPÖ, and so it should remain. We don't need to hide a comparison. Your model country Germany shows exactly this: All experts say that the measures put in place by the State will only lead to economic growth becoming even more pronounced, that one may even go into a recession. It is no longer discussed whether tax reliefs are preferable or not, with the relief given by Germany being relatively micky compared to what has been achieved here in Austria. That is why, ladies and gentlemen: Finally, you can see that in Austria we need effective politicians who make constructive proposals and do not make epochal discharge packages, economic promotion packages! They are invited to support the requests, including a motion for a resolution that we are going to submit today, and thus to give a clear signal in the direction of citizens' discharge. Don't be against it, ladies and gentlemen, that people of small and medium-sized incomes are able to keep hundreds of euros more in the wallet, because you have to answer them and your voters!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7198	Next speaker: Still speaking time to 20 minutes, as agreed: Mr Cap: 8.30 minutes, colleague stupid: 7.30 minutes, colleague Kogler: 9 minutes, colleague Bleckmann: 8.30 minutes. Please, Mr. Dr. Cap.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7219	Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner! Neither is the tax package, the tax reform epochal, nor was your speech now epochal. [[Abg. Wattaul: A great speech was that!]] You know very well that the allegation that we'd stand for tax increases is nonsense. Those responsible for and responsible for tax increases and tax increases are all on the government bank. And you make them the wall – that's the problem with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second point to be clarified in advance is the eternal hacking on Vienna. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer! This government is not located in Gigritzpotchen, but in the state capital Vienna. Vienna is part of Austria. And you know very well that Vienna cannot be uncoupled. [[Abg. Scheibner: And Austria is not part of Europe?]] If you halve public investment and the personnel decline is mainly affected by Vienna, then you are responsible for the development of the labour market in the area of Vienna! And you know that 200 000 people from the surrounding states are still looking for work and work on the Vienna labour market. Stop making Vienna bad! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But the real question is: Why has the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor ever seen the need to make a statement today? What's the reason? – The reason is quite simple: After you have presented the tax reform package, there has been a storm of criticism and indignation in the media and in the public, because, in fact, no one really has anything except very few. There is therefore a need for explanation. That is why we have had to make ourselves today and make this statement. For small and medium-sized enterprises do not benefit, small and medium-sized enterprises do not, the economy will have nothing of it, and it will not secure the economic location either. But when I heard the speech of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, I came up with it, I liked to see why today's appearance: Praise for the waving Minister of Finance! That was the meaning of today's explanation. That's the real goal you've had here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Dry applause at the SPÖ!]] The Federal Chancellor says: Everyone likes to pay less taxes. There's one in his government who doesn't pay any tax at all! Only he is the one who is driving taxes in this country. So this model effect is devastating. He says: Come here, my dear Austrian, give me the tax, but I'm a tricker, I know how best not to pay a tax. You don't know that? - That's a bad luck! Then try a little! Maybe you'll do it next time I come back and have your control shilling. – This is a moral that we do not accept and therefore condemn. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is just an extra sausage mentality that comes to the fore and that we really cannot support. The motion for a reluctance, which we are going to make today, is for the following reason: We have asked several questions in the public, including why the additional power has been kept silent from € 174,000 to € 283 000. I would like to add: Is there anything else? Is it even more? Is there anything else to admit? Then you'd better do it right now. - You didn't answer that. What happened to the money at all? - You didn't answer that. Why have the club documents not been published here in the house and not generally published? Income-expenditure account? - You didn't do that. What is the return, Mr. Finanzminister? For how did Mr. Lorenz Fritz of the Industrial Association look so beautiful on the 18th. In June in the ‘Kurier’, he said: Of course we don't spend money on nothing. It is not about the immediate benefit. – What is the benefit then? What is the secondary benefit? He's probably not going to ask for diapers after your baby and teen photos were on the homepage for his funding. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is the direct benefit he has had? – It must have been the reduction of the cheese that the industrial association wanted. So there must have been a return. You didn't say that. What about the 9 900 € that have been flown to an account you were entitled to and are entitled to? – No answer! On the other hand, only criminalising allegations against Members who have taken their duties seriously, and pressure on the public prosecutor's office to ensure that the procedure begins as quickly as possible. In fact, I would say that you do not need to be afraid of your reconciliation with Jörg Haider, if his friend, Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer, is sitting here and Mr Matousek of the FPÖ is not away anyway. What pressure are you putting on here, Minister of Finance? What do you want? You mean that? That is why we are going to make the following request today – and I am doing so – you have the opportunity to use and vote on your free mandate at last! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Something new!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But it seems you're not ready for that anyway. Today, you will also receive a Government resolution request so that you will have 100 percent behind any measure of this government. You will still be able to vote at the end of the debate. And you are forced, as I see it, not to vote for this distrust request that we have brought here. You would be well advised to do this, because it smells like tax evasion, what you see here. At least here is a gift tax duty, which you deny in the final effect here. This is what Mr Van der Bellen said very correctly: If the fashion becomes that every individual member of the government will set up a homepage and then each of them can be financed from the field which it has to serve as a member of the government, then of course this will create a corruption smell that cannot simply be ignored, even if one is not prepared to really reveal everything here in Parliament, which is to be disclosed so that at last light comes into the dark. If that's not done, then you're formally begging for a mistrust request. I believe that it is simply a political necessity to signal to the population as well: It cannot be measured by two measures. The citizen is to be taken seriously. It is not that one has to demand taxes from him and at the same time a few can judge it or, in the end, can withdraw from duty with any tricks. I have closely followed today's speech by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and the Vice-Cancellor. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Excellent!]] Do you know what I noticed? – I noticed that you have installed slightly sect-like elements in the whole. The Federal and the Vice-Guru explain the world in such a way, and you then praise yourself with happy radiant faces wound your hands. You have given a picture, I must tell you that the exercise of the free mandate is truly not worthy. You sit here, just so you can see on television how excited you are of this non-tax reform and of this praise for the Minister of Finance, like solidarity They are behind these measures by the government. You sit here happily radiant as at a sect assembly and show that you are glad that you are allowed to sit here, cheer and give off the incense. This is what you have achieved here – you can almost congratulate the club people. Probably you have previously trained in a gym, had an applause training – a new sports discipline that you have introduced here. That's what you've done here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But that shows your weakness! That shows your bad conscience! This shows that you have actually realized in the last few weeks that your tax reform has gone beyond that. The economy has criticized this. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] The media have criticized this, and in the population all believe that they have nothing to do with this tax reform. And the economic location is also not secured. You have shown this very clearly with this exaggeration today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7389	The motion for a resolution which has just been submitted and read on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance under Article 74 of the Federal Constitution is duly supported, stands for negotiation and subsequently for the vote. Mr Dr. Stummvoll. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7410	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, one thing distinguishes us: We can be proud of our head of government! With you, it's a little different if I look at your tip. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal chancellors and vice chancellors said today that the comparison makes us sure. How true that is! Since the political turnaround in spring 2000, the Federal Government has taken a successful course in terms of jobs, income opportunities and social security. We see this on the facts and facts. And we're not living on an island. We heard: Double as high economic growth as in the euro area, half as high as in the euro area, half as high price increases as in the euro area and in the budget deficit a third of what the EU average is, not to mention red-green in Germany or the deficit in France. This is a successful economic policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That, Mr Cap, is also the real reason for your mistrust. You want to distract from an incredibly successful policy, you want to distract from a very successful finance minister. They hope to affect this current balance with a dirty dome campaign, with criminalisation and scandalisation. Underestimation You are not the intelligence of the citizens, who are very easily perceiving such a maneuver, Mr Cap! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This tax reform, this largest tax reduction in the history of the Second Republic, is not erotic alone in the landscape. It is the consistent continuation of a policy that can be described with keywords: Economic and Social Package I, Economic Package II, Growth and Location Package, Tax Reform Stage I and Stage II. This is a consistent policy for the future of the country, for work, business and family. Mr Cap! Take an example. I say something now, because there is a second comparison – I used to say it to my clubman –: I am grateful for every plenary session that is broadcast live by television. [[Abg. Scheibner: Me too!]] For another comparison makes us sure, Mr Cap: The TV consumers see there are two parties working for the country, for the future of the country, and there are two other parties that make a dirty dome campaign and carry out scandalisation. This comparison also makes us sure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am also pleased to see another turn, I would almost say a European turn. You heard the quotations today: “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”, “Neue Zürcher Zeitung”, other viewed foreign newspapers. What's this turn? – Those European countries that have imposed sanctions on Austria almost four years ago today admire the performance of this federal government. This is also a European turn that we can be proud of, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We also see here: Nothing is as successful as success. And this federal government is successful in the field of work, business and family. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Colleague, let me say something: These performance figures also confirm the accuracy of the way in which this Federal Government has defined from home with three important strategic goals. First: Stability in the government budget – there is no way past that. Secondly, Investment in the future – it has never been as much invested in the future of the country, in research, development and infrastructure as under this federal government. And thirdly, discharge of citizens and businesses, major tax relief in the history of the Second Republic. This is concerted economic policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let me also say: I am the representative of a border region, where I know many small and medium-sized enterprises, who are constantly expecting and asking themselves: Should I move my production to the Czech Republic? Isn't it cheaper to produce there? I was yesterday at a big reception of the Gmünder Wirtschaft, that is, at the Austrian-Czech border. There were perhaps 3 per cent industrial but 97 per cent representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises. I can tell you about it: Trust in this federal government, this start-up mood, is a result of this policy of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the example of the Voest, Mr Gusenbauer referred to the German Chancellor's statement as having invested the Voest anyway, there is a programme in 2010. - That's quite right. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The question is only where to invest, Mrs Colleague. Director-General Eder said very correctly before this tax reform that it would be seriously considered whether these € 1 billion should be invested abroad or in Austria. And the same Director-General Eder said after the tax reform: Now everything is clear, we invest this 1 billion € in Austria. – That’s the difference! This comparison also makes us sure, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I don't know who it was from the opposition who meant that the reduction of the Köst was a gift to the big corporations. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr. Wirtschaftsprofessor!]] What nonsense! – Two figures: 83 percent of all GesmbHs in Austria employ less than 20 employees. 70 percent of the tax relief effected by the reduction of the cost, i.e. the corporate tax, goes into businesses with less than ten employees. A classic work programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is about jobs, income opportunities and social security in Austria. We are proud of this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7532	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7551	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I was just on the way: Always stay nice with the truth! I'd like to take that over. It is indeed true that, above all, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic is always exactly in other border regions, when you think that he is on the road, always in the process of shattering the truth. And so it is with this so-called tax reform declaration. I just want to take a short look at that. I am sorry, Mr President, as well as we may understand ourselves in some other questions, that was not a performance speech, which was actually the strengthening of a campaign for which you will still be responsible. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Let's wait for you once!]] I'll talk to you soon. This Taferl of the ÖVP is also implemented at the expense of taxpayers – that is, the interesting – throughout Austria: [[the speaker shows it]] ‘Less taxes. More for life." I would like to tell you that this will still concern us because, as the Minister of Finance has always done, the funds of the Schindluder taxpayer will be used in campaigns and procurement contracts. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Information to the Population!]] – Yes, an information from the Federal Government is on this point: More for life. - Watch out! It is an increase in the population if it still has to be dizzyed with its own money, namely the 2.3 million who have, of course, been disadvantaged since the blessed operation of black and blue. [[Abg. May. Molterer holds up a table on which the sentence finds itself: “Less taxes. More money for life".]] Of course, we need to look at taxes and taxes together, of course it makes no difference for the person concerned whether he pays more taxes or more taxes or less. And it is now the truth that you always hide, that most of those who really need it are not only completely empty from you, but more burdened for years and days, so that at the end of the day the problem arises that you are very likely to organize a huge tax reduction, but for those who do not need it. Those who would need it, but go out empty. Shame! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That wasn't good!]] It is also completely wrong to say that those would not pay a tax just because their income is below the limit for wage taxation. Of course, the turnover tax pays, of course, the social taxes, measured by their income more than all the others. You can even calculate that. This is the issue of distribution, which is constantly being addressed here. But there is something else that is at least so important to us, namely the question of employment policy. It is precisely that in the lower incomes the incentives to employment are relatively low. That has different causes, however, undisputed is that with this... – Federal Chancellor, now [[Interference of the Federal Chancellor, Dr. Schüssel, sitting on the Government Bank.]] You're not constantly in between! – It is true that there is a gap. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Incredible what you are there...!]] Moreover, the Federal Government cannot do anything for it, but this is also a Europe-wide and US-wide problem, only: In other countries you are so smart and accept the solution of this problem with a mix of instruments. One possibility in this context would be that wage and income taxes in the lower incomes will be designed in such a way that deposits you so praise from the coalition parties will also be paid out for those who pay so low a tax that otherwise they would have nothing more of it. Another effect would then be: more distribution aspects taken into account and also employment incentives in this segment. Your example, Mr Bundeskanzler, and your colleague, Mr Molterer, have led to the fact that those households, of which there are many, where both have to go to work and both have a relatively low income, have nothing exactly from your tax reduction. And that's what we're criticising! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You from the government parties have organised a client policy that you even, in a very touching way, can be seen openly. In this context, I only refer to the following: Agricultural diesel, church contribution and so on. So it's about the mediocre earners or the server servants, an area in which you suspect your clients – and that's probably right – for which you do something from ÖVP and FPÖ. But this is, as an economic programme, too little – and that is not only too little, but even wrong. It is also wrong to do what you do, for example, in the context of company relief. Not that nothing should happen there, but: There are huge structural problems there. What you are doing with your reform, however, is even strengthening these structural problems. I'll just get together. The pay-related charges are in Austria at tragic “world champion” peak. – And there is nothing happening, no cent less! The corporate taxes in the profit sector are very low – and this despite the high rate of 34 percent! In real terms, very little koest is paid in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. stupidly shakes the head.]] – That’s what all international comparison studies say! Of course it is! And that's why you commissioned another study because you didn't want to believe it. Finally get out with the results – and don't talk between them too! [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Muted]] Clarify this at last! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of ÖVP and the liberals.]] This problem, as I said, does not solve it, but strengthen it still! That's why here: a smooth not enough! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Master Teacher!]] If you were to reduce the wage-related taxes, all businesses would be taxed on profits – and there would be employment-related incentives. Those companies show me that all of them make so many profits that they are now relieved! This is, of course, the minority of farms in Austria. The vast majority of farms would benefit if we finally did something in the tax area in terms of payroll amounts – and we confess to that too. – That was once your programme, but you have agreed to it. Explain by the government parties that elsewhere, instead of turning on sintering ads in which something is claimed to be wrong! The real problem, which has already been addressed here, is also extended by the fact that this is, both in terms of the location question and the tax question, the Minister of Finance himself. It is quite obvious that the KHG “Kleinklientel KHG” was not incorporated into the reform, because KHG, it seems, does not comply with the laws anyway. If you had done a follow-up procedure, this reform would have looked like this: All pay taxes, only KHG not! And that's the truth! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: KHG pays 50 percent! Mr. Col., stick to the truth!]] To return to his club now: The purpose of the association is defined with Karl-Heinz Grasser, and there we find actually a stone and clearly a gift tax duty. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Fekter.]] I don't know anyone in Austria – nobody! – who would deny this gift tax duty – except one, and that is “at random” Mr Finz, Secretary of State, who is bound by the Ministry of Finance. [[Call to the Greens:Finz]] That's how it looks! And this, ladies and gentlemen, can and must not go through any longer! [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister of Finance has repeatedly given false information in connection with the “small investigation committee”. [[Deputies Mag. Molterer and Dr. stupid: That's not true!]] Often incorrect and always incomplete information! Get answers to our questions at last, Minister of Finance! What are the payment flows? What are the donations on your club account, and what are the payment flows to your so-called social association? All those who have established a social association must pay taxes – only you, Minister of Finance, may not be able to return! Clarify this before “NEWS” release the next revelation tomorrow! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As the accelerator KHG was described with korruption, with H interaction and so on... [[Call to the ÖVP: order call, Mr President.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That's not too hard. I can quote from a brochure on anti-corruption, in which it reads: Even small gifts, made with a thought behind, are a corresponding counterperformance in expectation. You write that yourself in your brochure on anti-corruption, Mr. Finanzminister! “Clear little gifts” write! [[Call at the SPÖ:... obviously only applies to small officials!]] And on the other hand, it says: Looking away can also be punishable. – This is for you, Mr Finz; You are the second to sign this! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] So what's this now? Is that true for all officials – or is that just some of the funny two from the Himmelpfortgasse? [[Call the SPÖ:. obviously only for the small officials!]] Is this your personal Muppet show – or is it taken seriously?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Steibl: What is this choice of words?! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)]] Two Signatories: Grass and fin. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, you yourself need action! We only have to deal with mistrust here, because you obviously do not have your shop under control anymore. The Minister of Finance is...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7832	Your speaking time is over, Mr Deputies. [[In the case of the Greens, as well as the SPÖ Members, I should like to congratulate the speaker on his report. May. Kogler.]] In addition, I would recommend not to say “personal Muppet show” to the government bank, because we also need to be able to defend the National Council against criticism from the government bank. [[Abg. Großruck: The “good man” Kogler was that!]] [[Call to the ÖVP:The bottom drawer was his speech!]] Mrs Bleckmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e7879	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer said that this reform is too late. – The opposite is the case: This reform comes at the right time – but those who come too late are the SPÖ's colleagues, because you would have had really long enough time to show how, in your opinion, a good tax reform, tax relief can be made. However, you have missed this during your reign – and have not managed to make a good reform in good time. The current government will show you the right way. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If I listen to Mr Cap's statement here, I must say that this tax reform is a really good one, Mr Cap – apart from his three stand-bys on tax reform – has not lost a word on it, but only on Mr Finanzminister's report, and on it has a agenda item that we will then have, where we will then discuss the Court of Auditors' report. I have not heard from you, Mr Cap, about the tax reform. This should really be so good that you can't stop anything from the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: There's nothing more from the SPÖ!]] With regard to tax relief, we have given ourselves three premises: that there is a discharge that there is no counter-funding and that a family package is made. We have managed to obtain a discharge of €3 billion. If I look at the tax reforms of recent years, including those under a SPÖ/EIA government, I have to say: They have not achieved much: only a reduction of €1.2 billion in the last two tax reforms before our government. – So now there is a discharge of €3 billion. First point. Second point: There is no counter-financing. If the SPÖ-Schelm thinks that the money has to come somewhere, the skewer is the same as he thinks, because if he thinks that extra money would be drawn out of the pocket to the citizens. – That is not the case! First, we have tried to eliminate the debt mountain that the SPÖ has built in order to now have room and space for the tax relief that we will implement. The third area is the family package, a real signal to the Austrian families. We are particularly pleased that, despite the fact that last year's statements, including those of the Minister of Finance, have always been made that these measures will not come to an end – to prefer these measures for families to 2004 so that we can provide €250 million in addition for families this year, for example, with the child supplement to the single-earner discount. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For the first child there is additional 130 €, for the second child 175 € and for the third child 220 €. I mean, that's a clear signal that the children in Austria are very valuable to us. The shuttle fee was increased by 15 percent, so that we could bind a total package of € 250 million in addition for the families. As it has now been said by SPÖ, including Mr Prammer, that all of this is not for women in work, that it would not be beneficial for these women to have nothing of it, I must say to you: Obviously, you should have missed out on the fact that a tax reform applies to those who pay taxes, i.e. also to women who are working and who pay taxes, so that it is clear that there is a real relief for women in work and, above all, for single women. In Austria, single-parents are often moving at the poverty line. Therefore: A single parent with two children with an annual gross annual income of 18 300 € will receive 356 € in 2004 and in 2005 she will receive just over €794 more with the tax relief and the supplement for the children. That's really a lot of what we're doing for women in work, Mr Prammer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That's really something!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This means that for two children we have already achieved a doubling in the single-earner discount rate – and that is really good and important for the families and thus also for the women. If colleague Van der Bellen says that he has a lot of things going on the cookies here, this is his language scheme he uses. It is clear that you do not agree if the government is taking good action. But one time or another, Mr President, you seem to confuse the tax reform with social transfer measures. A tax reform is in place to relieve those who pay taxes – and social measures, as well as social transfer measures, are made through social policy. But today we are talking about tax relief and tax reform, i.e. those who are paying taxes. Of 5.9 million Austrians who are taxable, we have now set 2.4 million tax-free. Again: Of 5.9 million taxpayers, 2.4 million no longer pay taxes, and I believe that this is already a very provocative number for which we have been able to make a real improvement by not paying more and more people in Austria taxes. [[Abg. Reheis: Because they have so little income!]] This is the important thing that people who need it are tax-free. And that's what we're trying to do! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Since you're calling in here, I have to question the behavior of the SPÖ. ==References== October 2003, when you didn't know what the government's tax reform was going to look like, there was a great broadcast of what the SPÖ programme looks like. And I'll read your original texts to you from SPÖ. “The big tax reform is to come in 2005”, says here. – Before that, you said it was too late, but you yourself said the SPÖ that this should come in 2005. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It also says in one of your broadcasts: The aim is to eliminate the competitive disadvantages of corporate taxation. For example, the SPÖ opts for the reduction of the tax rate to 25 percent. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP towards SPÖ:Zickzack course!]] ==References== October of 2003 you have expressed your support for a reduction in the tax rate to 25 percent. - We'll do it. And what do we read in your broadcasts now? – This is a ‘tax present’. – The course of the SPÖ: zigzag and hühott! You don't know what you want, and just try to make everything bad that leads the government in the way. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact that the Köst reduction is a measure which, in particular, results in a competitive advantage for Austria and contributes to the security of the site, all know now! 61 percent of employees are employed in such companies, which will now pay much less to Köst. This is therefore an important measure that we are taking here – and is truly not a small part of the economy, but an important, large part, which will contribute significantly to the security of competition and to an advantage for Austria. We know what the SPÖ tax ideas look like: Increase income tax, raise wealth tax, these are the things you propose and what you have made of the SPÖ press releases. – There will be no such thing under a free government participation! In order for you to be able to expect a little better in the future, perhaps learn playfully how to do business properly, I will give Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Van der Bellen a “DKT” game for their group, so that you can learn how to better manage in Austria, a “DKT” for Austria, so that we have a better future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8044	The Federal Chancellor is speaking. Agreed speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8062	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have followed the debate, it was actually quite interesting to see the following: The SPÖ has said that the tax reduction is too late, it is too low; the Greens, on the other hand, have said that it has actually been too lavish. So I think we're about in the middle, we've done it right. I think everyone can see this on the basis of this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Professor Van der Bellen, you're someone who loves facts – and I also value your self-absolute argumentation. I think you can also correct some points. They meant that the women's employment rate had not been sufficiently observed by us. - I can give you a number. [[The speaker keeps a graphic up to date.]] In the "magic" year 1999, with which I like to compare ourselves, the female employment rate was 59.6 percent – and it rose in 2002, which is the last year that we are statistically present to be 63.1 percent, plus 3.5 percent. [[Call the SPÖ:Wasn't you a minister?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Austria is very good in terms of the EU's employment rate. Blue is Austria, red is the Eurozone. [[pointing to the graphics]] We are increasing there; the distance in the EU comparison is enormous. So we're really good at it. I am very grateful to Magda Bleckmann, for she pointed out an interesting press conference on 20 June. ==References== At that time, Dr. Gusenbauer – today he has avoided any concrete statement – said very concretely what the SPÖ is thinking. And these were some exciting topics. First: Dr. Gusenbauer has proposed that income should be tax-free up to €15 000 per year. - What are we doing? Tax-free up to 15 770 €! That is not bad, I mean; even better than the SPÖ concept! You, Dr. Gusenbauer, then proposed doubling the negative tax; a volume of about €60 million. . We do this, however, for the children's purpose, because this is precisely what we meet those 100,000 single-parents who have had the biggest problems. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – Requested, and we will do it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Another SP proposal was that 1 billion € should flow into the investing economy. And you have said that a reduction in the nominal corporate tax rate to 25 percent could certainly be agreed by the SPÖ. [[Cheerfulness at the ÖVP and intermediate calls towards SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is our proposal – and we will be very careful to see if you will agree, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of the liberals.]] You have also said, Mr Gusenbauer, that in the year when this is decided, a few ten-quarters may not play a role in the deficit or in the deficit. – That is what we mean: without compromising long-term financial viability in any way. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] . I am very excited how the concrete discussion will then take place here in Parliament. One more point. Many speakers, including the opposition, have said that it is actually the right time and much more important to reduce the additional wage costs. – Yes, this opinion is also ours. And since I've been in office – Herbert Haupt has fought this with me – we've relieved the additional wage costs for employers and employees of € 650 million, which is 9 billion schilling! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The interesting however – and now comes the points; applause costs me speaking time –: [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] In the context of pay-by-cost reduction, the opposition to health insurance provided a contribution to the service provider's contribution. June 2000 who voted? – She was against it, red and green voted against this reduction! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] How do you get from SPÖ and Greens on 11th. In June 2003 with regard to the reduction in the additional wage costs of older workers was agreed? – You were against it, ladies and gentlemen! Therefore: We are the real wage-inducers of ÖVP/FPÖ, is this government – and we are proud of that! And this comparison should also be known everywhere, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let us also reveal the mystery behind the counter-financing of the opposition! Speak openly here, come to the speaker's desk, and tell me! SPÖ and Greens have always called for the adjustment of property taxes to the level of other EU countries, i.e. a quadruple of the basic tax and a tripled inheritance and gift tax. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Tell people this truth! We don't do that. We are more honest here and stand by the programme we have set ourselves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Last point: Mr Kogler, which has made me very concerned, is your polemic against the church contribution. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The tax treatment!]] Now I'm telling you something very open. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The removable church contribution has not been changed for 15 years, it is now raised from € 70 to € 100 per year, and this money goes into the care of the poorest of the poor, is used for social projects, for educational projects, for refugee care and for monument protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] Shame that you are addressing this in such a critical way!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8240	Mr Vice-Chancellor came to speak. I'll give it to him. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8258	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen. If you have calmed down, I would also like to respond to a notice of opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr. Dr. Cap said that we, the Federal Chancellor and I, had “sect-like elements” in our lectures, and called us “Bundes-Guru” and “Vize-Guru”. I want to “out” myself today: I am not a member of a sect, but a member of a federal government capable of consolidating the budget in a relatively short time despite the acquisition of €150 billion of debt in 2000 and at this time a tax relief of €4 billion – 1 billion has already been settled in packages – without substantial counter-financing by the burden of other population groups. I am proud to be a member of this government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] By the way, I am also inclined to say to Dr. Gusenbauer: No, it's not that tax reform that comes too late. It is a wonder that it is possible, through consistent spending-side savings and restrictive budget policies, to be able to implement a tax reform, in particular in favour of 2,550 000 Austrians, who are tax-free, but also the other Austrians, without slipping into a larger budget hole, as our friends in Germany risk doing. I mean, Dr. Cast builder: Not the tax reform is too late, but the change of government in 2000 has come too late! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of course, many arguments – the alleged arguments – would have to be addressed, but that would break the time frame. Mr. Bundeskanzler has already addressed a number of points, as has Mrs. Bleckmann in her broadcast of the 20th century. ==References== You seem to have been on top of it at the time, Mr Chief of Opposition, because you have asked for two more things, which interest me again in how you will stand in this debate. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: But just quote!]] You said: In order to boost the economy, infrastructure investments should amount to €1.5 billion. – We now have 2.1 billion € in the 2004 budget. I'm sorry we're a little better than you assumed! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] By the way, you also said: There should be additional reliefs for single-earners and single-parents with child. – You will not miss the fact that we have also fulfilled this point exactly. Ladies and gentlemen! After I have followed this debate today and with at least partial understanding of the bad-maker and sick-jammerer syndrome which you have obviously attacked, I ask you: Skill You're not even happy that this government has obviously been able to do what others are celebrating abroad? – The “Frankfurter Zeitung” does not write wrong: The Austrian conservative government has achieved a large throw with its draft tax reform. The key points presented give the middle class a clear relief. Ladies and gentlemen! Helmut Kramer from WIFO says: Significant success; the reform has met the concerns of the population, to a surprising degree. He doesn't see any losers in the reform. – "Mitagsjournal", 10. January. And Bernhard Felder says: In terms of GDP, the Germans have achieved just half of the volume and beat each other enthusiastically on their shoulders. Now you don't have to knock us on your shoulders. But if experts are happy at home and abroad, you'll be glad to see that we really succeeded in this Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I wondered a little bit about it and I was also annoyed, Professor Van der Bellen, that you said: This Austrian government makes gifts to companies. – It has already been said today, I just want to say one more number... [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Capital companies, he said!]] Yes, of course: With the Köst reduction – you should know – we also use 80 to 90 percent of all employees, because they work in exactly these companies that benefit from it!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8330	Please take note of the speaking time, Mr Vice-Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8351	You will also know that 61 percent of employees are employed in capital companies. That's why this is job security! But we will have more opportunity to discuss it more intensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8379	Ladies and gentlemen! We've agreed eight more speakers and have 34 minutes, which can't be different from eight times four. But this only works when it is strictly observed and the applause does not take too much time. Otherwise we would have to cut the last round to 3.5 minutes. There is no other proposal. The next speaker is Mrs Bures. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8400	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! You know, Federal Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor, I am very glad that your wild propaganda speeches here do not actually give the majority of the population faith. People are smarter than you believe, and that's good. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is shown by all surveys: Everyone knows that there are only a few who benefit from it and that the majority of the population is unfortunately empty. [[Abg. Steibl: You read the wrong paper!]] These announcements for 2005 you have now started are a great disappointment. 80 per cent of small and medium-sized enterprises go out empty and get no cent. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Wrong!]] 2.3 million people, workers and pensioners, go out empty, they don't get a cent. [[Call the ÖVP:Falsch!]] Do you know what the most disappointing thing about your tax reform announcements is? – The most disappointing thing is that we have a situation where 340 000 people are without work, and you are making a tax reform that does not take any action that does not counter it and that does not provide impetus for the economy and the labour market. [[Abg. Großruck:... and you don't believe what you're doing!]] These 340 000 unemployed people are responsible for this government. You are responsible for this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They respond from ÖVP and FPÖ to 340,000 unemployed people with a tax reform that benefits a few, and you also react by making further suggestions as to how you get the money back for these gifts, namely a removal of housing promotion. As you have no problem, this will mean that unemployment in the construction industry is rising massively and that rents are rising. Therefore, your policy is to blame for unemployment in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President, there are people who do not have four pensions like you, when they are old, but who are concerned about poverty in old age. You don't have that, you've been insured, you'll have four pensions in the future. [[Abg. Großruck:... the government is also responsible!]] I know a pensioner – Mr Bundeskanzler – that would be examples for you – who called me and told me: In the year 2000 I had 1 498 € pension, and in 2004 I had 1 474 € pension, month by month by 24 € less. – You have said there will be no pension reductions. This pensioner tells me: It has always been said that it is not intervened in the pensions, that is all a lie, he sees it in the transfer of his pension – month by month less!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8509	This pensioner has spoken of a lie, I suppose, not you, because we do not use this word.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8524	Mr President. I quoted the concerned pensioner who turned to me. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Have a luck that the President will help with the objective management!]] To reach a few winners: The few winners are on the government bank. It is Mr Bartenstein that he will receive more schilling by this reform year after year by 17.2 million. In the future, Mr. Prinzhorn will receive 33 million schillings more year after year. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: How did you get this, Madam Member?]] Therefore, of course, the population has the right to feel that you are right, and the people are going to be empty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister! There's a saying, and now I'm also quoting a saying: Lies have short legs. There's a "NEWS" pre-declaration, very up-to-date: You have always said that you have received 175 000 € from the Industrial Association. It has been discovered that it is €283,000, and since today, for a few minutes, we know: it is €352,000 that you have obviously been financed. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's not fair, what's happening!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Finanzminister, you are obviously confusing this country and this beautiful Austria with a self-service shop!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8606	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8622	I come to the conclusion: Mr. Federal Chancellor, I think your drawing son, your Finance Minister, Nimmersatt, has long been ready for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8649	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. We have had many days of meeting without using the word “lying. ” I urge that we stick to this practice, even if it is dressed in proverbial words. I don't like it! Please, Mr Grillitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8676	Mr President. Don't worry, this danger doesn't exist with me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government! We distinguish, even in style, between ourselves, to help people and to give them a framework that people can orient themselves. This proves this government with competence, with a sense of responsibility and with stability, and I thank it for that. This is the only way to secure the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This tax reform is a big throw, whether you want it to be true or not! The surprise is clearly written to you in the face. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Because you seem unconceited and unorientational, my Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs Carinthia's colleague, equipped with Uralt concepts, which you have put on the table here today and put on the table all the time! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This government knows the needs of people. This government knows what the economy needs. This government knows how to secure jobs. This government knows how to strengthen the competitiveness of Austrians. I thank you very much for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is a discharge and, in fact, if you want to, a security programme, ladies and gentlemen. It is a secure programme for secure jobs in Austria, a relief for the families in Austria and a guarantee for Austria's economic location. If you say that is a tax relief or a tax reform for industrial and tractor drivers, then you have not realized how to secure Austria's economic location. [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] For fact – and I say that 90 days before enlargement – in 90 days ten new countries in Europe are competing with us, ladies and gentlemen! The reduction of the Köst – and you will be surprised if I say that now as a farmer’s representative – secures Austria’s economic location! The example of Pöls shows the effects of this: 300 jobs in my home region, if Heinzel doubles the capacity to produce; Sales for the forestry sector in this region; this ensures the income of people in this region so that people can make investments there and thus the value added remains in the region, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But only for the capital companies!]] And I thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The discharge for counterparts is an essential issue, especially in rural areas. As mentioned several times, the relief for the families is an essential factor, even for my rural families. If you say: for a few tractor drivers – do you want farmers in Austria to pay a price of 40 percent higher than in the EU section? If You want that, you say it loud! This ensures – as well as the suspension of the sparkling wine tax – the economic location of agriculture. This ensures jobs in agriculture, which secures rural families income. This also enables the rural families to continue to meet the requirements that you, namely society, can place on us, namely to produce safe food, to keep the landscape open and to provide services. In turn, this is only possible because there are the appropriate tax reliefs at the right time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll be right there. Your concept would have stated: triple the basic tax, triple the inheritance tax, triple the gift tax. That would have been a job destruction programme! Today we have a programme ahead of us, which relieves everyone who is in reality a security programme and which will continue to ensure the economic location of Austria accordingly in the future. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8791	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8810	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian churches are important allies, especially for us Greens, to alleviate the social and human consequences of government policy as far as possible. You're very reliable. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you know Mr. Kogler? Mr Kogler doesn't know that!]] The church contribution is a private agreement between the members of the Church and the Church itself. This is nothing for us as a politician – perhaps you, Federal Chancellor, but this is a somewhat different understanding of the Church than that of the Second Republic. [[Abg. Großruck: Concordat there is no one either!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] What interests us is the tax treatment of the church contribution and the income of the church, and that is what we say: Before the Church, which is not one of the poorest in this Republic, is taxed, it would be a bit fairer to relieve those who are really socially weak and disadvantaged and not to point out that they can work for a monastery soup once again in a socially and tax-relieved church. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Not the church, the citizens were relieved!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is not the aim of a fair tax policy! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Church does not pay any church tax...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That is why, Mr Bundeskanzler, our statement remains: It is unfortunate that we are faced with a tax reform for rich people, for fruit and for tractor drivers. Others deserved more. We wish ourselves: to support a wealth of energy policy in tax terms, to relieve work and to support tax support, to support research and development, education and training. That's where you can make tax policy. That's what you missed, and that's also the core of our criticism. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr. Pilz! How does a withdrawal amount work?]] Now it is clear why this came about when one of the most important tax policy institutions, a think tank of this Republic, is considering the statutes of the association for the promotion of the New Economy. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Learn tax law!]] Because there is a real tax policy, and in § 2 of the statutes of this association, it says: “May. Karl-Heinz Grasser – who is well known to have nothing to do with the association but is intended for the association – “has given decisive impetus to the idea of the New Economy. (f) cooperation with stakeholders and other institutions in support of the implementation of the purpose.’; [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's nothing unpleasant!]] This is exactly what happened with this tax reform: Take donations privately to be able to repay a hundred times from public funds! That is what the association under “May. ” Karl-Heinz Grasser’ is indicated as the purpose. If – and there has been a lot of confusion in the last few days – the industrial union is donating, then you only need it – if Mr. Mag. Winkler and Mr Mag. Grasser still don't know that – the certificates of Printmanship to look at the credit cards of the Industrial Association. Since you have black on white the transfers, you have the first transfer of the 20th. On April 7, 2001 you will have the second transfer on the New Economy account of the credit institution “Verein zur Förderung der New Economy”. In November 2001, you still have the open question to the Minister for Finance: Why? For what? What interest was represented with this effort, with the funds of the members of the Industrial Union? Mr. Finanzminister, it will be even more exciting. ‘NEWS’ publishes new figures. I can't check from the pult whether they're voting or not, but until now – and I want to hold on to that – everything has unfortunately voted. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] But there's a fund there...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8960	Please, the closing sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e8975	Thank you, Mr President. – There is a fund that belongs to you personally, and there are two funds on it. That is why I ask you, Minister of Finance: Open your fund! Open up the money you took! And put an open and fair account in front of this Parliament for the first time in your political career!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9002	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9021	Mr President. Dear members of the government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's adventurous. We are discussing today the tax reform, the biggest tax reform in the Second Republic, and you have nothing but constantly hacking around the Minister of Finance and agreeing to a homepage. There's an ad at the prosecutor's office, a trial is in progress. Something will probably come out or not. But on this important day, you should not use this very important point of discussion, where it is a milestone in the tax history of Austria, to constantly send Mr Finanzminister to his homepage. This is certainly not a suitable way! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] From you, Mr Wirtschaftsprofessor Van der Bellen, I would honestly have expected you to take a very clear position once again on the tax reform and on its individual truly epochal measures that you are taking a position on what this Federal Government has set this reform government in motion here. But you too have just hacked around on the Minister of Finance again. I believe that the Austrians have more urgent needs and more urgent interests than the permanent around hackery due to a homepage, such as a tax reduction. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You find nothing else to criticize!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They have also criticised the fact that tax assessment is too complicated. This is now a clear, transparent and simple tax calculation, which has been sent here by the Minister of Finance on the journey, which enables every Austrian to calculate his tax himself and simply. They criticise the fact that the tax savings are too low: They would have had enough time in the last 30 years to make a tax reform that corresponds to this level. You didn't make it! Not even three tax reforms among social democratic finance ministers have managed to lead even half the discharge we are now sending on the journey – €4 billion – in the way. Ladies and gentlemen! That's too little, that's not enough to be critical here! You said that this tax reform is being made on pump. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That was always your argument!]] If, as an alternative, you think only to make tax increases in order to finance this tax relief by, for example, reintroducing wealth tax again, I ask you: Are you aware of what impact this would have on the stock exchange, Mr Matznetter? Especially now that we can all be happy that the stock exchange, with the capital market going up again in Austria, just then you want to introduce the wealth tax again! [[Abg. Oils: Yes, everyone can be happy!]] Or the inheritance and gift tax, which brings only 120 million but causes a considerable administrative burden. 80 percent of the review cases do not result. Take this with you in your reflections! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you criticize the Greens that the Köst reduction is too generous, then I can tell you that the Austrian economy urgently needs a relief in view of the preparation for the enlargement of the East. This also means a relief for workers, because the economy is ultimately creating jobs and incomes and is therefore correct and important for Austria's economic location.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9090	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9108	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on TV! [[Abg. Scheibner: It's not going out anymore!]] If polls show that the majority of you assume that you will get little or almost nothing: You're right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am not allowed to use the word with the ‘L’ in the front for the failure of truths here, and I follow the President's recommendation. I therefore stay with the pensioner with the € 1,000. If she looks at her pension account today – January 2004 – and expects it to be true, what Mr. Federal Chancellor says, that in 2005 more than €600 more, she will feel deceived. It's only 109,60 €! This is the naked truth, the sad truth. Now also to the other nonsenses that have been spoken: The company tax reduction benefits 80 percent of companies. Please, according to the last corporate tax statistics alone, of 88 418 companies pay almost 60 000 – 59 073 – only the minimum royalties. If you include the 14,000 cases that have income below € 14,000, there is only a very small group of entrepreneurs who are planning. This has no effect on employment! The Federal Chancellor has also misinformed us in this regard: In the Wifo study, which the government itself has distributed, the impact is reported at €2.5 billion discharge for 2005 with only 0.3 percent and for 2006 at 0.4 percent, i.e. in the statistical bug width. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's wrong!]] – That’s your study, that’s easy! – And instead of having an impact on employment of 12 000, only 4,000 are indicated. So 8,000 unemployed people have received from the Lord a promise that has not been fulfilled. But what bothers us a lot more is: It wasn't saved. Last year in this house, the ASVG and GSVG-pensionists were taken away annually more than € 1 billion of pension claims, and now this billion is distributed as a prey to very few who benefit from it. [[Abg. Scheibner: How are you talking?]] Just a few examples to stay here with people: The group Bartenstein – only Gerot Pharmaceutics and Lannacher – saves a total of 17 million schillings, converted into euro, the €2.4 million. [[The speaker presents a table with the pictures of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein and President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn indicated tax savings on the speaker's desk.]] And in the area of the Hamburgers, in the area of the group Prinzhorn: 33 million schilling. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: That can't be true!]] These figures result from the data published in the company book. 18 600 taxable persons receive the same relief as these two groups of companies. They got the loot! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] You want to know why I also spoke of a nominal reduction, Mr Scheibner? I'll tell you: Because you could have made a correct correction technically, but you missed it. And now to the Minister of Finance. Mr. Finanzminister, you have not only paid €352,000 to the New Economy Association. It has been confirmed today – as “NEWS” writes – that there was €9 900 and €5500 that have been transferred to your private account; “private account” therefore, since there was only one trust account, that of Karl-Heinz Grasser, until the fund was set up. And that means nothing else, Mr Minister, but that you have political responsibility. Ministers in this country have resigned for minor things. According to the report of the magazine “NEWS” of today, the payment of €9 900, which your press speaker and now chief of the cabinet Winkler disputed, has been confirmed by the judiciary. Mr Finanzminister! Take the hat before the remaining one here in the house needs to be taken over in the form of an investigation! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9211	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9235	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! First of all, Mr Matznetter. Mr Matznetter! I'll give you something on the way: Entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs create jobs! - Point one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Now to Mr Pilz's speech: Mr Pilz! I'm disappointed I expected more. That you don't even know the tax system that you don't even know what a deposit is, I wouldn't have trusted you. A withdrawal amount is a discharge for citizens. I'm not surprised that you don't understand the measures for our family package. I would therefore like to explain this to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Alone earners – and I would like to give this to the opposition along the way – mostly belong to children-rich families in which a parent mainly takes care of family work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Single parents are those who do not have a partner who contributes to income. And this group is one of the most vulnerable groups in particular. And there is currently an excitement in Austria – is there an excitement? – over 1 million single-earners, and of which 100 000 are single-parents. [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] This is the group that the SPÖ and the Greens seem to always fall on. And because we're actually doing something for them now, you're against it. Ladies and gentlemen! The declared goal of this Federal Government with Chancellor Schüssel is to bring Austrian family policy to the world's top. And it is in the process of achieving this goal with power, competence and wise steps. Since the claim to the right to parental leave is still in force this year, income for families with an effective volume of €250 million is now increased. “Less taxes – more money to live” is now said for families. I would like to repeat this once again because I believe that it is very, very important that you give this to the Austrians along the way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The aim is to increase the amount of earnings for the single earner's discount from currently €4 400 to €6 000. This is an important point in terms of the compatibility of work and family and also of freedom of choice in the design of one's own life. It is also about the introduction of a child supplement: for the first child 130 €, for the second child 175 € and for each additional 220 €. Nor do I want to forget the increase in the rate of commuting by 15 percent, but I would like to mention it in particular, because this is an important measure for the population, for rural families. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This means more justice for families and children. We strengthen the most important social foundation of our society through the discharge of our families of €250 million. Remember, and agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9325	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9344	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! On this beautiful Taferl, which is coursed around today, there is an essential mistake. There it says: “Less taxes – more money to live”. You forgot to write on it: More money to live for men, because that's what your tax reform is doing. [[The speaker will raise the panel left by the previous speaker at the speaker's desk.]] So uncompleted from traffic. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl's gonna get this one.]] – Now I’m even taken documents from the speaker’s desk. It's new in this house. We have a tax reform, which consists of three areas, and all three areas are structured in such a way that, in total, the men benefit in particular. Just stand by the government! You have, of course, your priorities in tax policy, which are clearly and clearly expressed. You have the priority of economic location – I will then go into it very briefly if it allows time – you have the priority – I would call it so – client policy. That's what we've already called the agricultural diesel. I believe that this is actually a missing client policy. This clientele would have a lot more of other measures, but maybe you will learn that. Another priority is finally a very clearly oriented conservative family model that you favour, because the large pieces of what you represent as a family package are the single-earner discount. This means overtly formulated: They give more money to the men in the family so that the women stay at home and provide for the household and children. That's your model! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It must be said quite clearly that the other measures are not gender-neutral either. The pendulum fee is used to an overwhelmingly higher extent by men than by women. A tariff reduction as you do in the wage and income tax sector – there are calculations, by the way, not by me, but by the Ministry of Finance itself – has the effect of: One percent reduction in payroll tax amounts to about two and a half times as much for male taxpayers as for female taxpayers. - You do exactly that. If we say a tax reform for all, then I imagine that, first of all, everyone, including those who do not already pay a tax, because they do not deserve so much, must benefit from it. And that means: Please increase the negative tax as a matter of urgency! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I expect a tax reform for all that women benefit at least to the same extent as men. With your tax reform, you can't even do this. On the contrary: They also include gender-distorting measures. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, If you want to conduct site policy, you should also ensure that no gender distortion is worked and a location is devalued. Because what you do in total with your actions – but there is also no counter-control – is a gradual destruction of potential. They are destroying the unused potential of women who cannot be employed because they lack jobs and, above all, the working conditions. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] And one last addressed to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic: If you're such a...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9437	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9452	My final sentence: If the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has such a great commitment to redundancies which have not been modified for 15 years or longer, please also for the disability allowance.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9480	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9498	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! This tax reform brings more money to money in the wallet, higher deposits, families are relieved, jobs are secured, and businesses are being strengthened. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This is not the Villacher Fasching!]] Colleagues from the SPÖ! I understand very much that you do not understand this type of tax reform, because any tax reform that you have introduced has been subject to burdens. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: The load is you!]] While the Austrian population is looking forward to this massive tax relief, red and green in Austria will not tire of dissuading this tax reform. That's how the SPÖ runs Ross Deception. For in the calculations you now submit to the Minister of Finance, Mr Matznetter, you mix two different pairs of shoes, namely the tax reform, with 1. January 2004 will be effective, those with 1. January 2005 will be effective, and those parts that will be preferred. Yeah, you're confusing, ladies and gentlemen. But you forget one thing: that you would raise the inheritance tax, the property tax and the basic tax, which would drive any rent to the level. You forget to tell the people too. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You can also look over the border to Germany: Each doctor's visit costs 10 € for each, every medicine between 5 and 10 €. With us the recipe fee is € 4.35. That's just a comparison. Dear ladies and gentlemen! At this point I would like to thank especially those who have negotiated this tax reform, primarily the head of the Carinthian state Dr. Jörg Haider, who was the chief negotiator of the liberals and who, with the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State, negotiated the whole package in this form for the Austrians, for the Austrian economy as well as for the Austrian workers and for the families. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Call the SPÖ:Lei, lei!]] This concerns in particular those parts that have been preferred for the families. [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] In fact, € 250 million has been added retroactively to the Austrian families. 900 000 Austrian single earners, colleague Matznetter, of whom 100 000 single parents benefit from it! You benefit from this tax reform! For the amount of €364 per child now comes in addition to the children's season per first child another € 130, for the second one another €175 and for the third and every other €220. Mr Matznetter, take a look at this, then you will see that the essential thing has been done for the families! For these persons, the amount of earnings has been increased from €4 400 to €6 000. The shuttle fee has also been raised – a requirement also by the workers' chambers. The pendler fee has been increased by 15 percent. And the tariff system, Mr Matznetter, is now finally transparent. Every employee in Austria has been annoyed by the fact that he has received a wage increase and has fallen into the next level of taxation. Now the low incomes are tax-free, and then there is a linear increase in the tax system and no more tax rates, but average tax rates. – This is an essential advantage, Mr Matznetter! This relief brings every single wage-payer tax savings between 165 € and 670 € per year. Mrs Weinzinger said that women are worse off. – Mrs Weinzinger! Especially the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes – and these are women in particular – benefit from this, which will also result in a relief of €440 a year. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to ensure the Austrian economic location, it is also important that corporate tax is reduced, because at least 1.4 million employees work in capital companies. – That is more than 60 percent of Austrian businesses. This is extremely important for Austria's economic location and for securing jobs in Austria, and I am particularly proud of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9611	Mr Dolinschek! For “Rossage” is in the XIX. GP has been issued an order call, but I suppose you didn't mean it, did you? Let's say it that way. I call Mr Gartlehner. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Mr Prinzhorn will then be presiding over. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9632	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear gentlemen on the government bank! The Sigi Dolinschek was written in the main book: I know you as a real real estate agent, but the Carinthian election campaign has driven your emotions too up here too much. The assumption that Jörg Haider would have made this tax reform even forced the Federal Chancellor to laugh. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Dolinschek! Ladies and gentlemen! It was addressed today, the stock exchange Vienna is developing so well because of the economic activities of this Federal Government. I think the stock exchange. Vienna benefits primarily from the fact that in recent years state property, state top companies have been sluggished and sold under their value. This performance takes along Momen-tan's stock exchange Vienna. This is not only my point of view, but many experts are also of this opinion. Apart from the fact that a “aircraft” is quite positive on the Vienna Stock Exchange of course, it remains to be feared that overheated activities will bring about major takeover effects again. The sale of shares is also often stimulated when profits are made too quickly, and that is exactly what is happening on the Vienna Stock Exchange. So I think that even here, more care and more sensitivity would be more useful and overall better. For the ‘largest tax reform’: If you take the absolute amounts – as the Federal Chancellor mentioned them: 550 € Grasser finz and 350 € Edlinger seven years ago – then of course this is only true without counter-accounting, without tax increases. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, of course, this “largest tax reform” net is only a modest and from distribution – as I think – very problematic tax reform is left. The joy that two million Austrian workers no longer pay taxes turns out to be a very problematic position, because this freedom of taxation is achieved in the final effect by the fact that the incomes of many people are very low, that the incomes of more and more people in Austria are getting lower and therefore more and more people are not paying taxes. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Unfortunately!]] I think it is the wrong incentive to apply this way. As a whole, we must try to ensure that tax policy is harmonised in a way similar to the European level, in order to avoid this pressure on tax rates and on tax quotas and thus to be able to counteract very unfair competition in connection with the enlargement of the European Union. Harmonisation of tax systems in the European Union would actually be appropriate so that productivity and performance, the absolute and real performance data of economies, can really determine the location advantage and not any state-political intervention through the flat tax of similar tax rates in Slovakia or in other countries. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It should also be noted that the state debt of the federal government continues to increase and that the savings come exclusively from the countries and municipalities. This is, of course, also a very problematic development, because it is already seen that the financial performance of most communities becomes unstable and, of course, this loss of revenue for the municipalities is very negative developments in rural areas. If you already talk about infrastructure here, you should also see that the rural area is provided more with better infrastructure. Developing infrastructure in agglomerations is not a problem. – There she finances herself. However, we need infrastructure developments in rural areas – where it really costs something. This has to be financed – whether by the municipalities, by the countries or by the federal government – otherwise there will be major departures in the coming years. On the subject of jobs and infrastructure I can only say: Soil unemployment has increased by 70 000 people in recent years under this Federal Government. – This is not a small number, but a very problematic development. The number of part-time workers has increased dramatically, and the positive increase in employment is mainly due to these low-income developments. In total, Austria is still a good place to live and work, but the Federal Government will do well to change politics so that it will remain the same. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9677	The next speaker was Mrs Felzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9695	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This tax reform is a blow. You heard the definite numbers. With these three areas – family, tariff relief and economy – the above-mentioned volume is €3 billion. We've never had that in Austria! If I can help you with your memory a little: In 1989 Mr. Finanzminister Lacina implemented a tax reform of €0.8 billion. It followed Finance Minister Edlinger with a tax reform volume of €1.2 billion. We now have a volume of €3 billion by Minister of Finance Grasser and our Secretary of State Finz for the years 2004 and 2005. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Perhaps the only thing you do not like is that you cannot implement this reform yourself. As an entrepreneur, I am very pleased that we succeeded in reducing corporate tax from 34 to 25 percent. – That's really a big throw! This helps us to be more competitive internationally, it serves to safeguard the location and workplace and, of course, strengthens the financial strength of our economy. Remember Basel II, remember how necessary it is to strengthen the equity coverage of our companies! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As an entrepreneur, I also congratulate our colleague Dr. Bleckmann, who has distributed the economic games “DKT”. The only request: Maybe the next time you take a few more of this variety with you! I would also like to ask you from the opposition in this context to get rid of those distorted old pictures in which the entrepreneurs create primarily money and, on the next occasion, possibly say goodbye to the employees. It's just not reality anymore! We – most of the SMEs that have 10 employees – invest when we make profits. [[Abg. Sburny: Take a look at the statistics of assets and revenues! Maybe you can read the statistics once!]] We create new computer systems and machines, and of course we create new jobs to expand our own resources. Solution Please be aware of these old divisions and pictures that have nothing to do with reality at all! In this context, I would now like to see the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Mr Molterer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Felzmann, Mr Buchner, Mr Colleagues, on the greatest tax relief in the Second Republic. According to § 55 para. 3 GOG in conjunction with § 53 para. 4 I would like to briefly explain the key points. These are: Great reform of the income tax and wage tax rate; income strengthening for families; Increases in the rate of penalty; the reduction of the corporate tax rate to 25 percent; instead of the existing scheme, a modern, international, attractive group taxation takes place; the tax deductibility of certain technical provisions is improved; the sparkling tax is abolished, the beer tax is reduced; the fuel needed for agriculture – the diesel – is taxed off; increasing the agility of the church contribution, introducing a general set-up for small entrepreneurs; Setting priorities in the fight against tax fraud. Finally, a few figures: You probably know that there are 300 000 entrepreneurs in Austria. 100 000 are capital companies, 200 000 are individual companies and individual companies. We reach the capital companies by reducing corporate tax to 25 percent. We have already achieved the other group with the definition of half the tax rate on untapped profits. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Sburny: But only if they have profits! You won't claim all the profits! 47 percent don't have one!]] Under the rule, it is 90 percent of entrepreneurs. Whether you like it or not: We can do that! And I would like to start this tax reform with you – appropriately with a glass of wine, because this too will taste even better in the future by abolishing the sparkling wine tax.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e9773	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Felzmann in his key points, tabled by the honourable Member, Mag. Molterer, Scheibner, Felzmann, Bucher, Colleagues and colleagues have been distributed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, are printed in the Stenographical Protocol and are thus incorporated. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10139	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10173	No, no! With us there is a different system than with you! – Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I find it remarkable with what unfrozenness of the special class the members of the government groups claim here that all benefit from this tax reform. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: All taxpayers!]] – All taxpayers and taxpayers inside, you always claim. You can really tell us a lot. It is always difficult when the television audience hears such numbers, because it is not possible to check them so quickly. However, some can: What, do you think, do those who have just received their pension or salary and see that they definitely have less in January 2004 than in December 2003? What, do you think, do they think if you claim here, everyone get more? – Yes, only you talk about all the time that everyone benefits from it. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: 2005!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Tancsits.]] People believe it! - Yeah, sometime. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: 2005!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm not talking at all about people paying about the charges anyway much more than they get, even those who might definitely benefit from the reform, but I'm talking about the fact that people definitely get less than before. The same happens to the companies – unless it is with the small companies, with personal societies or, for example, with freelancers and freelancers, for for example, no one talks about them at all. At Köst – at corporate tax – you cover the large capital companies and some of the individual companies. With the profits that have not been collected, you can – you say – collect all the personal companies, individual companies, which is not true, because 47 percent do not make any profit, so that this tax advantage of untapped profits cannot at all benefit. What you are not talking about at all is the freelancers, who do not benefit from the reduction of the cheese, nor from the profits not taken, because they are excluded there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[State Secretary Dr. Finz:... Income tax...!]] That means you just put numbers in the room once. – Whether they are right or not, people will be able to assess what they get. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Thank God!]] – Yes, thank God – for whom, will show himself. I would like to return to counter-financing once again because you are so proud that you have not submitted counter-financing for your tax reform. – This is the biggest dizziness! No one will really believe that you do not need counter-financing, but the only question is where you get the money. We have seen this in the last period of government: You take it from the universities where there are fees at once, you take it from the health system where you plan to self-retain, you take it from the pensions where you force people to take private care. So it's not like you're not planning counter-financing. They just don't say it, and people will feel it again at the next savings package. I think it is more honest now to say how such a tax reform could be counter-financed – if you already do it – than to say that we do not need counter-financing. Administrative reform, says the Secretary of State: I am curious about how you will save these sums with an administrative reform. As I said, you can tell us a lot. We can have a discussion here. However, people will take a picture of what comes out for themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10302	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10320	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! With this tax reform, the big throw has succeeded. It has been mentioned by the government parties facts that have been tried by the opposition, but I think the listener can still imagine what actually happened for the benefit of Austria and its citizens. It is about strengthening competitiveness, ensuring the economic location, ensuring and creating new jobs, and above all, it is also about making investment decisions in favour of the Austrian site, which, as we have heard from both the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-President, has happened several times. How does the opposition – social democracy and greens – express itself? - By the sick! The chairman of the Social Democratic Gusenbauer calls this tax reform a too late one, one that brings too little, as a flawed opportunity. The right thing is: The tax reform is not too late, but at the right time. The government budget with the debt you left behind as a government party – I am addressing social democracy – had to be consolidated first. – That was the first step. Then there was the first step in the tax reform, which has already been implemented and has been in force since 1 January 2004. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The second step in tax reform – you should see all of this in the package – is with 1. In January 2005 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to It is a real signal effect at the right time to strengthen an attraction of economics – and that is what economics scientists tell us in advance. A relief is granted to families, it contributes to job security and, above all, to the creation of new jobs in Austria through investment decisions. You always forget what has already been done before, what measures have been taken by the Federal Government. I mean the economic packages I and II and the growth package. Here, investment in research and development has been made, here a focus has been placed on education, training, here the infrastructure has been promoted and taken into account – that is, things that have a positive impact on economic growth in this difficult world economic situation. On the statement that this tax reform is not enough: When I think of the last tax reform in the socialist era under Minister of Finance Edlinger, this was a tax reform, which from volume was only part of what this package is worth €3 billion. And how was this tax reform implemented? – It was a electoral sugar soon before the choice of a tax gift without pre-introducing consolidation of the government budget. After the election, the invoice was then paid, but not by the one who started this tax reform, namely by Minister of Finance Edlinger – vulgo “Rudi Ratlos”, as some say – that this invoice was paid by the subsequent government and by taxpayers, without preparing for this tax reform. I compare this with a round in the inn, which someone spends, but then more or less curls through the toilet window. That's exactly what happened. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: A tasteless comparison!]] But true, as I mean. This is, as it were, the tax reform tactics of the SPÖ. Now for the wrong chance: The SPÖ called for a special meeting in January this year. It is clear that a third of the Members were present at the club meeting before this special meeting, even less than the perhaps usual half of the Members. [[Abg. Neudeck: So many?]] Now, of course, I'm wondering: How seriously do the Socialist MEPs take the alleged concerns of SPÖ itself? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] And to whom is this one third to be assigned? There's a cast builder classification you know. ==References== In May 2000, a company claimed that it had a third division of its representatives: A third of the Members could live up to the principle of benefit, a third of the Members would not be able to do so, and a third would be resocializable. I wonder, Which third was at this club meeting? [[Abg. Neudeck: Fourth!]] I don't know. As I do not know at all who is responsible for your statements on tax reform. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The time of the loads has come to an end. A great throw has been achieved that finds international attention. This too has already been mentioned. I am glad that there is a policy that is responsible, that is forward-looking, that promotes the labour market and ensures the economic location, one, as I mean, strong policy for Austria and its citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10404	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10423	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Hofmann, who is so bad at counting individual heads of Members, should not juggle with billions and budgets, and should not be responsible for them at all. I am sorry, Mr Hofmann. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You didn't listen!]] But now a few impressions about today's debate: The Federal Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor – both speak twice during the television season, but that is logical – talk about their announced alleged tax reform, and both of them hide themselves firmly on the issue of tax morality, the financial scandal, the tax evasion scandal, the donation of the Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That's a tough silence. I'll stick to the saying: If you don't have anything to hide, you don't need to hide. In the meantime, both of them have lost their lives. Interestingly, the Minister of Finance – probably for security reasons – has been completely silent about the tax reform today, according to the motto: I'm sure it's safe, 'cause it could slip him a little. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Sburny.]] Only a small fact, why it is really reprehensible, obscious, unscrupulous and arrogant, that both here escape the debate on their explanation: Take only the fact that between the late admitted €108,000, which have flown, and the ultimately millions that have been run out by the Industrial Association itself, is a difference of €108,000, which is 1.5 million schilling! [[Abg. Neudeck: What do millions mean? It's supposed to be millions now!]] [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: Are we talking about Schilling or Euro?]] Do you know how high the difference is? This is an amount for which an average worker or a worker has to work with a net cover of € 1 000 nine years. And you're talking about trifle? You're talking about dirt? That's the fact! Nine years a worker must work for this difference. [[Interlocutory note by State Secretary Dr. Finz.]] – Mr Finz, you were the only active person. They took the sweat off the forehead every now and then. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But you now know that this is actually 352,000. That's the truth. And then you are so brave and put in a motion for a resolution – the new colleague has read it – in which there is a passage to fight fraud. [[Abg. Neudeck: New colleague?]] Very exciting! I do not claim that – but I also claim it and say it – but, strangely, my witness to the Minister of Justice yesterday is with his statement. They are writing about an improvement in the fight against fraud, but in reality you are deducting officials, hindering procedures and surveys and making it impossible to carry out this fight against fraud. That's negligence, that's intention! Not Trunk and the opposition say that, but even Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer in the Causa of the Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Since the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany of successful privatization: What is the truth? – The truth is that voestalpine Stahl GmbH with 25 employees was closed today in Klagenfurt as a consequence of voestalpine Privatisation. These are only 25 people who have become unemployed today. You don't care about them, but we're very good at them! Second point: What have we debated today? – On a pointing, now on a motion for a resolution, on a press release – the advertising campaign with information telephone is already done; I am sorry for the people who will sit on this telephone, because I do not know exactly what they will announce there except what the Federal Chancellor has supposed – but there is no draft law! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You yourself, in your press release from yesterday, declare that this will be mid February or so. Do you know what that is? This, in turn, is a deliberate unfit attempt by the Federal Chancellor and his team and wife to distract and forget what they promised to do by the end of 2003 to bring about the harmonisation of pension systems. Federal Chancellors! Team and woman! Nothing's going to forget! Nothing will be forgotten. You gave this promise and broke it. The last point is: Why did this Robin Hood from Carinthia actually get stuck in front of the carnage of this tax reform? [[Abg. Neudeck: Because she's good!]] Why? Was it just the bowl-header-pact – as we know it is about the state captain chair – or was it a little more with catch hunters and others? In fact, this Mr. Haider has to say that he has betrayed Carinthia three times: once, because the budget of the country Carinthia will be lacking €20.5 million, second, because the Carinthian communities will lack €20.8 million and third, because those people he speaks of without interruption – I don't call them that, he already – that is, the little man, the little woman, will get zero €, but probably maximum burden. On the other hand, all the mayors in Carinthia have spoken out, first and foremost the representative of the mayor of the city of Klagenfurt – colleague Scheucher is not here either –, Finanzstadtrat Zwick. Everyone has spoken against this tax, tax and budgetary policy of the Federal Government. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I quote briefly – the time is scarce – Karl Klein, no SPÖler, no trade unionist, not to count on us. He says: Those who pay the tokens will not be relieved. Dirnberger of ÖVP Niederösterreich also says strikingly, and there is little to add to this: “This announced tax reform is another injustice at the expense of the workers and brings further privileges to the friends of this government.” That is the truth, a brutal truth to the harm of Austria and its people!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10559	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10578	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The subject is tax relief and location security, and I am very grateful to Mr Prehauser for the fact that he has extended the positive data of the Federal State of Salzburg accordingly. It is indeed true that the Salzburg economic region, with regard to purchasing power and regional product per capita, and also with regard to the low unemployment rate, is in second place in the ranking of the federal states in Austria. Of course, what Mr Prehauser did not say about this is that economic policy in Salzburg is being made by the ÖVP and that – obviously also in the absence of economic competence in the ranks of socialist government members – today the Environment Council has been praised, which has already said, he will no longer run for the future. [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But it is true that in Salzburg you can also live on the successes of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes! You don't believe that!]] Salzburg is also a model country with a plus of 9,280 employees in 2003 compared to 1999, compared to Vienna with minus 13,800 employees. Mr Cap mentioned that Vienna should not be made bad: I emphasize: Vienna is not bad, and Vienna is not bad either, bad is the red government in Vienna: [[Call at the SPÖ: Bad is the Federal Government!]] And here you should make changes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] If this SPÖ is present here in the House, in the House against the tax reform and thus against the many people affected by it in Austria, it will once again show that one simply does not want to implement reforms and carry out reforms. Let us also look at our neighbouring country, to Germany, where Red-Green rules. It is still based on a tax reform, and it is likely that in some time we will see what has been done in Austria to possibly understand this. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have no idea!]] The ÖVP with Federal Chancellor Schüssel at the top, which our Federal Government provides at the right time for a comprehensive reform that provides benefits to every taxpayer and indirectly to every citizen in our country. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Count first, then speak!]] And it manages – unlike the Socialists' proposals – without counter-financing. We know the proposals of the Socialists who said: Increase the basic tax by about €1.3 billion, which would affect every property owner, every house builder and every tenant. Apart from the fact that the agricultural diesel is of course offset by a competitive disadvantage that farmers have so far had – they have up to 40 percent higher costs than competitors – other essential things in this package that benefit citizens are also included. I should also like to point out that this is not a gift to farmers, but that it compensates for the competitive disadvantage, and the farmers will thank it by investing. Farmers invest a total of €6.82 billion per year. The 15 per cent increase in the flat rate is an important issue that is still to be reported. Finally, I should like to point out once again and to support our Federal Chancellor, who said correctly and aptly: Austria is a good place to work, Austria is a good place to live. And I'll add: This tax reform will help to ensure that this remains the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10663	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10710	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know what Mrs Felzmann, who has put forward the motion for a resolution, who is obviously supposed to be the poor tax reform concept presented with the sect. I do not know, Mrs Felzmann, what do you want to say to the 2.2 million people in this country who are not already paying a tax because their income is too low? Sage They're to them: Drinks a glass bowl, because now there's no control on it. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is not a social benefit, but a tax reform!]] But back to the economy, although at least FPÖ obviously confuses the economy with DKT. That's obviously what they've got in the club, because that's what they're distributing. I think the economy is a little more complicated than DKT, but it may still be talking about it until FPÖ. Let us take a look at how the economy is actually relieved, and let's get away from corporate tax. There will be about 2 000 to a maximum of 3 000 companies that benefit from it. That's what we've been talking about. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's wrong!]] Yeah, that's what you say. We are still talking about the half-rate taxation of the profits not collected. – § 2: The Minister of Finance is always right. That's right. Since Mr Stumpfully thinks that the comparison makes us sure, let us take up some figures coming from the Chamber of Commerce, not from the evil opposition, but from the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce assumes that some 320 000 establishments are located. Of these, some 65 000 are companies. They're gonna fall off once. Therefore, 255 000 persons and individual companies remain. [[Abg. Neudeck: The capital companies have the Köst advantage!]] We are now dealing with half-rate taxation, which does not apply to the capital companies, as you know. 60 percent of these companies have no profits. There are 102 000 holdings left. 80 per cent of them – figures from the Chamber of Commerce, not from us – can not afford to survive because they need the money to be able to live. So there are 20 400 holdings left, of which 80 per cent, in turn, according to the figures of the Chamber of Commerce, cannot leave the profits for seven years, so that they can benefit from the half-rate tax. Thus, 4 080 SMEs will continue to benefit from half-rate taxation. This is 1.6% of the 255 000 individuals and individual companies organized in the Chamber. So if you say that's a broad relief from the economy, then we should talk semantically about how you define "wide". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Speak of the additional workers who can be employed by this!]] Let us look at one of the most important sectors in this country, namely – that will not surprise you – tourism. Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor brought it together in about 35 minutes, allegedly talking a lot about the economy, but not mentioning tourism with a word. He also contributes only 18 percent of the gross domestic product. It is an internationally recognised area of growth and one of the few areas in the service sector, which can also create employment. At the same time, tourism remains one of the high tax areas in that country. Now one looks at the alleged reform concept. Is there really a discharge? - No, far missing. No word of a reduction in sales tax and of the intention to use it at EU level to avoid a word to increase the rate of depreciation, even though this would be necessary for tourism in particular and could also be constitutionally argued, no word for a possible full-feeling and no word – and above all no word – for a reduction in the cost of pay, which would be absolutely necessary in the area. For example, we have proposed a reduction in the contribution rate to the family tax compensation from 4.5 to 3%. That would bring something for tourism. Everything else doesn't really bring much. What remains then – admittedly – is the withdrawal of the sparkling wine tax and the reduction of the beer tax. It is no longer a talk, for example, of what Minister Bartenstein announced in the second Schönbrunner tourism talks in October last year, namely a reduction – a abolition – of company tax and a abolition of the credit contract fee. Where's the bagatell taxes inside? Nothing! No word of it. So, obviously, the Finance Ministers and the State Secretary do not cooperate with their own Minister for Economic Affairs. That is, in many areas – in order to note this – this “tax reform concept” – under quotation marks – is a pure placebo concept, but in the tourism sector it is a complete tourism policy bankruptcy declaration.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10794	The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10813	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This draft was assessed by the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” (Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung) – and it cannot be said that the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” is a liberal newspaper – as follows. ‘Austria... Government has achieved a large throw with its draft tax reform." A big throw succeeded! And on top of that: The key points presented give the middle class clear relief, the reduction in corporate tax also makes Austria much more attractive for German companies. These signals are extremely important four months before EU enlargement for companies that are increasingly experiencing competitive pressure from neighbouring Eastern countries. - Quote. The opposition's desire to make this tax reform will certainly not be fulfilled. It's cynical when the opposition calls for counter-financing. If we had a counter-financing, the opposition would say that's constituency. If Mr Kogler repeatedly puts this counter-financing into the room, because he thinks that otherwise the budgetary discipline should not be kept, I must say to him: On the expenditure side, this government has proved what savings are possible. This year, in turn, the budget deficit will be less than one percent. Do your homework once, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, and do not always insure with these your statements the population! [[Abg. Sburny: Who will pay it?]] The tax relief carries a liberal handwriting and was mainly negotiated by the head of state of Carinthia, Jörg Haider. Carinthia can be proud that it has such a head of state. The aim was to strengthen the economy, to make Austria attractive, to relieve work, to set up environmentally friendly measures, to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises on the equity base, to increase purchasing power, so that everyone has more in his wallet to increase tax justice and to eliminate many bagatll taxes in order to simplify it. The Wifo has demonstrated in a study that the tax reduction in 2005 will create 7 000 new jobs. In the long term, this number will double, i.e. almost 14,000 new jobs. Austria's location has been strengthened vis-à-vis the Eastern countries, and everyone knows how Slovakia, with its tax rate, has stimulated the car industry to finance and that hundreds of millions of euros are being invested there. Spain has recently experienced it with Seat, where there are about 3,000 jobs less. We want to stop that! The most important thing for us was and is the family and the small and medium-sized income. As a result of the first stage of the tax reform in 2004, 200 000 people were also tax-free. After the second stage, i.e. 2005, another 150,000 people will be able to use this. This means that of 5.9 million persons in employment, 2.550 000 will no longer pay taxes. I thank this government for it, and many will do the same. In addition, the child supplement is increased to the single-parent drop-off amount, the amount of earnings at the single-earner discount is increased from €4,000 to €6 000. 15 percent more is the flat rate. The goal of freedom policy was always to strengthen families and to relieve the middle and small incomes. We can be proud of it. Agriculture too is finally relieved by the reduction in the tax on mineral oil. This will strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture, and small-scale agriculture will be pleased that we are finally implementing this measure, which has been called for so long. The opposition is called upon to jump once over their shadows and to praise the government for these extraordinary achievements. We guarantee that the people in this country will continue to be well and that they will have a secure future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10849	The next speaker was Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10868	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Federal Government under Chancellor Schüssel has promised the greatest tax relief of the Second Republic and has also kept this promise. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If we have heard from Mr Gusenbauer today that this tax reform is too little and is too expensive, I must say that every time he gets into a contradiction. ==References== In January 2004, the full tax exemption of small incomes and the preferential taxation of non-compulsory profits for individual entrepreneurs and personal companies took significant steps. From the second stage from 2005, the volume of which does not exceed €2.5 billion, each taxable person benefits from this Republic. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Neudeck.]] Either it benefits directly from the reduction in the rate of wage and income tax or the reduction in the corporate tax rate, which is an essential location for the creation and protection of jobs. For micro-contractors, the package is greatly simplified, and it is streamlined from currently six package regulations to a single understandable package regulation. What was previously not possible is now simply feasible for 200 000 to 300 000 entrepreneurs or professionals in the future. There is therefore a simplified and fair tax system that is understandable to all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In this context, however, it is particularly important to link this substantial corporate tax reform with an increased fight against tax fraud. Tax evasion must be ordered to fight. What does that mean? – This means that much lower taxes must also be paid. With regard to VAT, the financial authority is well on the go. The reverse charge system introduced for the construction industry – Austria is thus pioneering in the EU – leads to the reduction of pre-tax fraud by subcontractors of around €200 million. In the case of income tax fraud, measures are already under way, but they need to be reinforced. These measures include, for example, industry-related priority actions against undeclared work, illegal foreign employment and the shadow economy, an action that is keen on examinations, the use of more than a thousand former customs guards to strengthen the testing area and the extension of the normal testing period from three to five years. A perhaps good measure in this context is the flat-rate tax payment for 2001 and previous years as an opportunity for those who have withdrawn taxes but want to become again responsible and ordinary taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen. We must tell the tax evasioners – which is probably in the interest of all the brave taxpayers in Austria – the fight. With the resources already used and the planned measures of this Federal Government, we are on the right path!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10937	Mr Neudeck has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e10966	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Once again it was fascinating to see how the opposition has tried with great effort and effort in the last few hours to find a hair in this tax reform soup. But where clean work is done – it is lunchtime, Mrs Colleague – there is no such hair and therefore not in this tax reduction reform. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: “Suppe” is good!]] To criticize, there is basically only one thing, namely that it comes too late, much too late. It should have been done at the time when SPÖ finance ministers still had the saying, but at that time there was so much imagination and so much far-reaching for the Austrian economy. Their motto was “spending today, paying tomorrow, opening today’s money tap and burdening the youth of tomorrow. ” I find no criticisms that this tax reform will benefit all entrepreneurs in Austria, that women and families will be relieved and that they will definitely remain more money at the end of the month, that it will increase purchasing power and strengthen Austria's economic location. As it was in our country with a red government, we have had to experience it for far too long. As with red-green, the German example shows. All that red-green accomplishes is a reflection in terms of what has been set in motion in Austria. Germany has ten times as many inhabitants as Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Ask the German taxpayers, they are different!]] – This is not a real relief for the German taxpayers – compared to what is happening with us. Germany, with ten times as many inhabitants, has a population of 7.5 billion, and Austria with a tenth of its population reaches 3 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! When I went to Parliament today, I heard a mockery in "Ö3", with the "trend" for the next number: ÖVP officials criticize this tax reform. The second story is: Austria's manager goes to beauty surgeons. Conversely, this tax reform would be much worse ordered, because if one reads the criticism in this article, then one insists that some approaches by my colleague are boldly contained in which he criticizes the critics and not these tax reform. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It is still time for this tax reform to be decided. Bring yourself in positively, listen to the scandalization and the deterioration of the Austrian system!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11016	The next speaker was Mrs Mikesch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11034	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, especially the SPÖ: Their political credo seems to be the Churchillian premise: Each defeat begins by recognizing the opponent's position. After this premise, you have to do everything bad, even the largest tax reform in the Second Republic, which brings relief to the Austrian population in total of €3 billion. Mrs Bures, if you say in the media that only the rich will benefit from the tax reform, then I must tell you that is an insult – an insult to many thousand people who, every day with great personal commitment to their businesses or to their jobs, urgently need every euro and who are the big winners of this tax reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Economic growth, quality of life and the willingness to get investors to Austria depend not only on the tax environment, but also on an atmosphere and have a lot to do with trust. That is why, as an entrepreneur, I do not understand why this tax relief, which is so important to all of us, is not seen positively by all here in the house. It is the right answer at the right time to the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As an entrepreneur, let me address this tax relief. Austria is a country of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also these companies that strengthen, revive and maintain the regions outside the agglomerations and provide high quality of life for all of us. But precisely these companies often struggle with a lack of capital and with tax obstacles. And precisely for these companies, this federal government and the government parties have the tax relief of untapped profits and the disappearance of the 13th. Sales tax prepayment achieved. [[Abg. May. Kogler: How many businesses do such a profit at all? How many farms are they?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Finally, stop claiming that only large companies benefit from the Köst reduction. We no longer live in the 1970s, where only multinational corporations are associated with stock companies and GesmbHs. 83 percent of all GesmbHs in Austria have fewer than 20 employees. Of the stock companies, 50 percent are small companies with up to nine employees, and 70 percent of the tax relief due to the Köst reduction benefits capital companies with less than ten employees. Tell people the truth! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Tell the truth!]] The Köst reduction ensures jobs and training, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Especially in Lower Austria, it has been very necessary to implement these measures at this time. ==References== On the basis of enlargement, May will be given a new meaning this year. Enlargement brings us many benefits, but of course also risks for which Austria is prepared. With this tax relief, we send signals to investors, and in the country itself we provide a business-friendly climate. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Tell the profit structure of the companies!]] Jobs are created by entrepreneurs and not by word aids. That is why we need this reduction in corporate tax as a strong signal for our business location Austria like a bite of bread. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another thing: There's no more class struggle. If the economy in our country is relieved, all Austrians benefit from it, because healthy businesses with a healthy spirit of self-employment create new and permanent jobs. [[Abg. May. Kogler: How many farms do you pay? Tell me!]] So don't build up your envys! We are pleased that all benefit from this tax reform! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Tell me the truth!]] Make So you're not bad at this reform from the opposition. At least make a good mood! We and this Federal Government provide the data.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11160	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11188	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is true that all the reform measures of this ÖVP/FPÖ government have so far had a positive impact – despite poor economic data and even though the world economy has experienced rather a flaw. Our data, our economic data are in the very good middle range, if not even in the top of Europe. Therefore, the EIA was and is also primarily responsible for the future reform measures, for future tax relief measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it is very important for me, as a Member of the rural community, to have new impulses for tax relief. Many things have already been mentioned today, I should like to sum up briefly. For workers, a reduction of low and medium incomes is made. In rural areas in particular, we unfortunately have them in store. The purchasing power is relatively low in rural areas, so this is particularly important. The 15 percent increase in the flat rate is important for the people, for the workers who travel from their place of residence to the workplace and back. This is a very crucial measure for the future. Our entrepreneurs, our small and medium-sized enterprises, our industry, create and secure jobs! Thank God we also have in rural areas there and there industrial enterprises, because not the SPÖ trade unions who go on the road create jobs, but our entrepreneurs. Once again, that was definitely held. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also important for me that the farmers finally get a discharge over the farm resources. There's only one possibility: Cost reduction. We cannot operate over the prices because prices are generally exposed to strong competition, and you all don't want to pay for healthy food anymore. I therefore believe that this 20th, 25th, 30th percent reduction, which is to be expected, is a wonderful relief for our farmers. This tax reform is good for all of Austria, but especially for our state of Carinthia. We've got economic pick-up. We are at best in the middle field, we know that. The last few years have not been the most eligible for Carinthia. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: 10 years of ÖVP's head of state! We can't pick up as soon as we can.]] With our minus 10 percent purchasing power, we are below the average, Mr Scheuch, unfortunately. We're at the end of what the purchasing power is going to do. That's a shame. In rural areas, we are even 40 percent below the average in Austria. Unfortunately, that is the case, and that should be improved. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: All three parties in the government!]] Of course, I always have the whole thing in mind. On the one hand, there is the private and entrepreneurship budget and on the other hand the public budget. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] It is true that the country has revenue in buses, most of course the federal government. Colleague Trunk has already said it: in about €20 million for the country Carinthia plus €20 million for the municipalities. That's a lot. This self-appointed tax negotiator has certainly forgotten the state of Carinthia and the municipalities. Unfortunately, this is not a very good result for him. I'm sure we'll have to improve that. The communities have become bitters, and this must change in the future. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: But the municipal representative is from the ÖVP or not!]] I believe that it is also important for the communities to be able to carry out their tasks and balance their budgets in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also call for solidarity, in particular, with regard to SPÖ. We will see how far the Viennans are ready to support solidarity with the weak rural communities. I think we should now take the financial compensation into the boat, because it is about the communities surviving outside. If a Carinthian population were to be equated with a Wiener, that would be €200 million a year for the Carinthian communities. There's a huge amount. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We'll do that again. Whoever, if not the EIA, will create this fair balance between the weak and the stronger communities. This is about a larger base amount. It is about equal treatment for municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants, and it is also about an increased cost contribution, for example, to the rural road network or to water and wastewater facilities. All this has to be in the boat. And that would really be a double blow: Tax reform and financial compensation. I believe that we from the ÖVP will certainly do so, and then the discharge will also be felt in the remotest mountain village in Carinthia and all over Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11284	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11303	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We are discussing today the greatest tax relief that this Republic has ever seen. This tax reform is and remains the much quoted big throw, my dear Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, whether that suits you or not. They want to talk badly as always, which is not understood at all. The facts and facts are clear and convincing. This reform will provide a lasting relief for the Austrians. I am particularly pleased to see that all taxpayers, especially those involved in small and medium-sized incomes, are relieved. Overall, taxpayers remain 1.1 billion €, and that means less taxes, more money for life, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's not true!]] A few examples, including you, Mr Verzellnitsch, are: An employee with a gross monthly wage of 1 505 € remain by this discharge 444 € more. I also charge you in Schilling because many people still think in Schilling [[Abg. Forbidden: Average earner!]] That's 6 100 S. A worker with a gross monthly wage of €1755 remains 364 € or converted 5 000 S more per year. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Who wrote you that?]] Since Mr Gusenbauer and Mrs Bures are concerned about the pensioners, namely that they do not get anything, I reject this with an example from my family. My girlfriend's mother had been on the 1st floor. January this year a net pension of €777. Now she gets a net pension of 803 €, which is 26 € more per month, 364 € more per year. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Over 1 million pensioners won't get anything!]] By way of conversion, colleague Kogler, 5 000 S more for a pensioner with a small income. There are thousands of similar examples in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: And 1 million who don't get anything!]] This should make clear that people are living more money. People feel this discharge in their money bags because they get more, and that's important to us, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Kogler: What people?]] In particular, the young workers benefit from this relief. In addition to the growth and economic recovery packages already decided, this is a measure against youth unemployment. The reduction in corporate tax will not only safeguard Austria's economic location, but will ensure jobs and create thousands of new ones. And this is the right policy against unemployment, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another important point in this tax relief is the increase in the penalty rate. This Federal Government increases the penalty by 15 percent, which is a total of € 20 million. In my home district of Schärding there are many counterparts – there are some among the listeners today – and they are delighted with this increase, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In part, it is understandable that some in this House have problems with this great throw. [[Abg. May. Kogler: A middle Murks is that!]] Under your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, there have always been only tax reforms with the simultaneous introduction of taxes. This tax relief with a total volume of €3 billion will be made without counter-financing. We have heard a lot about saving today, and I would finally have a proposal for the SPÖ on how to save and better deal with taxes and contributions. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Saving packages!]] There would be more sensible use of the works chamber contributions in Upper Austria, which are known to pay all workers than to finance the pompous poster actions of the Upper Austrian Chamber of Workers in the course of the election campaign for the election of the Chamber of Workers: Placing the tax relief of this federal government. This is the greatest relief for workers in the second Republic. That would be more sensible and just, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The successful path of this federal government will continue: Tax relief for all! The Christian-Social People's Party is the guarantee for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11465	A further speech is made by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11484	Mr President. Under 2 minutes speaking time. In reality, this would be a matter for a serial actual correction. However, since this institution does not exist in the Rules of Procedure, I have to resort to a normal 2-minute word. Much of what has been said is simply wrong. It is. There's no big throw here, it's a medium-sized Murk. It won't be better. The point is, I would like to explain to you once again, that the Federal Chancellor here accused me of polemizing against the – literally – church contribution. Rather, it is true that I did not comment on the church contribution at all, but spoke about the privilege of the church tax contribution in tax terms and expressly opposed the fact that a tax privilege becomes an even greater tax privilege. That was my statement, and that's what I'm calling myself. I have previously quoted § 1 of the Unwritten Tax Act, which is obviously applied here, which reads: The Minister of Finance does not pay any taxes. – To this must be added § 2: If there is any doubt about this, it is with the removal and execution of the Secretary of State, and with the restoration of the state that the Minister of Finance really does not pay any taxes forever.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11514	The next speaker is Mr Böhm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11532	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Thank you for this tax reform. As a third-generation entrepreneur from the city of Salzburg, I can only say thank you for the fact that it was finally possible for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in particular to be part of the Individual sectors and industries get some air to breathe again. Thanks to the Federal Government, especially the Federal Chancellor and also the Federal Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser, who has been so committed to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Especially we in Salzburg, the Salzburg economy – Mr Prehauser's colleague, has previously shown corresponding figures – live to more than 85 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises that employ an average of ten employees. We Salzburg entrepreneurs are the employers of the region, we get the orders. And now we have the opportunity to invest again, combined with the new investment incentives that we have received, due to the free amount, due to the fact that we only have to pay more than 25 percent of the tax for untapped profits. People in our country are doing good work, ladies and gentlemen. Greater economic freedom and more reliable financial security are possible. Our main political goals are work and prosperity for all. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Only the one way to orientate can be found in the inconspicuous terrain. Our policy follows a proven compass: The social market economy as a regulatory guiding principle is also apparent in the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website The paralyzing effect of excessive bureaucracy, tax and tax burden must be eliminated. Freedom and property, ownership and private initiative are to be the dominant drivers of economic development. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria needs a tax policy that provides incentives for performance. We want to motivate people to develop their power. The citizens should again feel that the tax is justifiable. Austria therefore needs a tax policy based on simplicity and transparency – and I would like to thank you very much for that, and I praise that.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11590	Mr Dr. Cap also spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11608	Mr President, the Secretary of State is doing so peacefully on the government bank as if he had nothing to do with the whole of Causa. [[Abg. Murauer: He wrote!]] After all, a agenda item was today: Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor. There have been questions that directly concern him and that have affected him, because State Secretary Finz was the one who here in Parliament, but also in the public, has practically put his hand in the fire for his boss, the Minister of Finance, who, for him favourablely, has found a State Secretary who is willing to issue for his boss Persilschein in tax matters. Now the Secretary of State is typing around on his phone and somehow wasting some time, because he has to sit there – so to speak: The last ones bite the dogs! The Minister of Finance is no longer here, everyone else is gone, and that is the final point of this important statement, which was announced so widely in the public with the words ‘economic location’, ‘tax reform’ and ‘employment’. I do not know what the Minister of Finance is dealing with, which Mr Winkler has now ‘sended to the media’, who is again dementing the ‘NEWS’ message. One has to say: a construction that now almost helps Matthias Winkler with the association to make Minister of Finance Grasser a totally non-participative third. It's a very bad comedy that's being held here. That is why, I believe, it is not easy to do so now and it is necessary to take a short look at it, because at lunch “News” has revealed these new flows of money. And what's standing here is in the room. And the Minister of Finance would actually be called upon to comment on this – but he does not. He's not even present now, but he's almost leaving the Persilschein exhibitor sitting here alone. Mr State Secretary, if you are already sitting here, perhaps we can hold a dialogue. Did you know from the difference from 174,000 to 283,000? Did you know about the new difference in transfers? - Apparently you knew. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The question is: Why don't you get rid of the so-called tax secret and at last take an open position here, otherwise you will give the impression of a fellow-conscientist who is loyal to the Minister of Finance, shudders behind the tax secret and does everything in this whole area, but does not create the conditions for the candidate to become the President of the Court of Auditors?- Oh, my God! I can tell you that already, Mr State Secretary, because you are now involved in the whole. And if the Minister of Finance has to take the hat, you should actually go along, Mr State Secretary, that should be said in all clarity, because you are playing here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second to be mentioned in this context: The famous transfer of €9 900 to the trust account of Karl-Heinz Grasser, actually added up by another €5500 to €15 400, is also not demented by Mr Winkler. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: More than 200 000 S!]] He's not going into that. You have to see this in all clarity. There is, of course, one point to which it is worth pointing, because we can very clearly distinguish what we are talking about in public opinions and what we are not talking about. Mr State Secretary, I now ask you – you are now the only one here and, so to speak, the rest of the Sagittarius: What about this €9900? What about the 5 500 €? What about the 15 400 €? What are your views on these accusations and criticisms, which, I believe, are very clear? If the head of the public prosecutor's office Matousek even expresses himself to the public as a prosecutor... [[Secretary of State Dr. Finz: Yes, that surprises me!]] Now you also want to put pressure on the prosecutor, because you say you're surprised. Excuse me, Mr Secretary of State, after all: The head of the prosecutor's office says that there seems to be something about it. That's where I have to say: You as the State Secretary are now required to deliver an opinion on this. Please log in to speak, a microphone you have, you just need to be pushed over. I'm sure you'll get the floor. Don't be silent! You cannot remain silent here, you are the only one on the government bank and should now finally take a position on this. In other words, it is right that we have actually brought in this mistrust request here. And I would really like to appeal to the individual Members of the two government groups to consider again how they now decide on voting behaviour, because I believe that the situation of the facts is overwhelming, both in terms of political responsibility and the accusation at least of the obligation to pay a donation tax, as a head of a public prosecutor's office has also expressed itself publicly. Mr State Secretary, your statement is still missing, and you should make a final re-examination of it. Therefore, my appeal here to join this distrust against the Minister of Finance to support him, also in the sense of political hygiene and political cleanliness. Mr State Secretary, I think you have the last chance to get out of this responsibilities link, so to speak, to free yourself. Imagine yourself here and finally tell you what you know! The next question is: Is there more? Is the 356 000 € just one intermediate station? Who else is it? Is it Magna? Is it the industrial union? What is the counterperformance to the performance that Magna has to perform – would that have been Minerva? We have so classics in this index chain. What is the next, what transfers of whom with what counterperformance? And we have to ask ourselves slowly: What benefits have been provided by this government, and what were the benefits in order to achieve these benefits? There you have to develop almost criminalistic strategies. Mr State Secretary, take advantage of your last chance to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11688	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Sonnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11706	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Cap, the comparison makes us sure. In your last remarks, you have once again made no mention of tax reform with a single word, but have only surrendered, made bad and criminalized outwards. That's not the right style, and that's what we're talking about. I believe that this tax reform is a success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since this is my first speech here in the National Council, I would like to introduce myself briefly. My name is Peter Sonnberger. I've been married to Christa for 25 years, and we're both looking forward to a daughter and a son. I've studied law and I've been in law since 22. ==References== As a former student, however, I am horrified by the processes – which have only been noted in between – that took place at the University of Vienna. Torten-Throwing, ear figs – this is in no way worthy of an international university reform. The VSSTÖ has not even distanced itself from such measures! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] But back to my person. For 18 years I have been working in the Linz Municipal Council, eight of which are members of the Linz City Senate, the last two years I have been responsible and responsible for the economy, tourism, markets, housing and technical colleges. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: What shoe size do you have?]] You can believe I know a little about tax law. More money to live, less taxes – this is one of the key messages of the major tax reform of this Federal Government, the largest in the Second Republic, with a total volume of over €3 billion. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Please tell me your shoe size!]] More than 350 000 taxpayers – I haven't heard anything from you today – in other words, a total of 2,550 000 people will become 1st. In January 2005, neither wage nor income tax paid any more. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Overall, as part of the simplification of the tariff system – there will only be more than three tariff levels – and relief will provide people with €1.1 billion. These are plenty of 15 billion schilling – a huge sum, which substantially strengthens the purchasing power. Small and medium-sized enterprises in particular Earners will be the winners of this tax reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As a second pillar and family policy action, a child allowance has been introduced to the single-earner and single-parent dropout amount. 900 000 families are affected in Austria! For the first child there is 130 €, for the second 175 € and for each additional 220 €. Overall, this means a discharge of over €200 million! A single-earner family with three children will be relieved with 525 €. If you expect an average price relief of €300 to €500, then you can see that these families have more to live about €800 to €1,000 per year. Since many families are vulnerable to poverty by single parents and single earners and we currently have the system of individual taxation rather than family taxation, this family policy is socially fair and effective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The third pillar of tax relief – but equally important – is the reduction of koest from 34 to 25 percent. The Voest, which will invest €2 billion in the future, has declared that it will also invest the second billion euros in Linz, and it has been called the reduction of Köst as an essential argument. I'm allowed to close with two quotations. Only the change, Heraklit once said, and the Federal Government lived this sentence. In the "Semester certificate" for the Federal Government, for the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State there is a very good for the largest tax reform of the Second Republic, which is socially fair, which relieves small and medium-sized incomes, relieves families that simplify the tariff system that strengthens purchasing power, secures Austria's economic location and thus secures existing jobs and will also create additional jobs. – Take note of the opposition! They have nothing to offer from the opposition, but they only support the Minister of Finance, who together with the Secretary of State will re-establish the finances of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For social democracy, there is also a Chinese wisdom to conclude: One is not only responsible for what one does, but above all also for what one has not done – or has not done in your case. They would have countered tax reform through tax charges such as basic tax increases. You have not made any pension reform, and you have not, above all, stopped your debt policy. And that's why you're sitting on the opposition bank – and that'll stay that way for many years. The comparison makes us sure: The SPÖ has not actually contributed anything to the tax reform today. In the “Semester Testimony” it does not receive enough, but lacks work on the topic of “no assessment”. I may conclude with a quote from the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”: Austria's conservative government has achieved a large throw with its draft tax reform. – There is nothing to add to it. I thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11796	The next speaker was Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11815	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's morning has actually shown it impressively: The Federal Government has a tax reform, and the opposition parties have a problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] You did not succeed in the whole debate – nor did you, Mr Jarolim, but we are used to that – in depressing the fact that good and socially balanced measures are in the proposals of the Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen! This tax reform, which we are now debating in accordance with the statements of the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor, is one that guarantees a fairer and fairer tax system. It represents a fairer and fairer tax system because it disproportionately relieves smaller and medium-sized incomes. For a worker with an average income of just over €1,000 gross per month, this tax reform means a discharge of €679 per year – €679 per year! Ladies and gentlemen, that's not nothing, but it's a great, good support with Christian-social manuscript. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We know that the greatest risk of poverty in Austria lies with the multi-child families. Therefore, this tax reform means more justice and more opportunities for families with several children, which is why this tax reform relieves families in particular. It means a discharge for the middle class. This tax reform is a relief for the commuters: The penalty is increased by no less than 15 percent! But you do nothing but, in a destructive way, criticize this tax reform. One thing is also interesting, because you always get it to the meeting here: If it is criticized that the highest unemployment rate and, above all, the highest growth in the unemployed, namely almost 100 per cent, are recorded in the state capital of Vienna, where the social democrats are governed by absolute majority, you often come up with the argument that many people from the federal states of Vienna find their work. That's where I'm asking the question: Is there not a Wiener who works in the federal states? And are you actually aware that the number of jobs you have in Vienna today is at the same level as the number of jobs in Vienna in the 1960s, while in the other Länder, on average, we have 30 percent more jobs? – That’s the truth! Take responsibility and create jobs in the Federal Capital! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This tax reform relieves single-earners and single-parents to an disproportionate extent. Where there is a risk of poverty, we face it and create the purchasing power, which also makes it possible to continue a corresponding economic growth. It is not so - I would like to say very clearly - and I also say this as a representative of a large employee organisation - that, when it comes to relief, economics and employees are to be played against each other when, for example, corporate tax is reduced, because the It is the best worker policy that is imaginable! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Today's morning it's shown: We offer a tax reform, and you have a problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11900	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11940	Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! To speak so shortly before the end of this debate has a simple reason: It has been debated several times this morning on agricultural diesel for agriculture, and as a liberal agricultural speaker and as a federal chairman of the peasantry, I have to speak here because I do not think it is fair and it is also very dangerous to have a standing discussion here. If it is here that farmers can now afford the third, fourth or fifth tractor, I would like to tell you once again: Over 300 000 jobs remain in the area of Austrian agriculture – over 300 000! – more than 200 000 farms are managed. Every day, ladies and gentlemen, every day! –, lock 22 farmers! Every day 22 barn doors are nailed and no longer locked up! And I believe and am convinced that the agricultural diesel is an important part of a functioning agriculture. It is important that this competitive deterioration is removed from the world. Dear Heinz Gradwelt, I am very interested in whether you will vote for or against the Austrian farmers in relation to the agricultural diesel. I'll see if you get up or sit down. You can be insured: Also the SPÖ farmers and, Mr Pirklhuber, also the green farmers would be very pleased if they would get the agricultural diesel cheaper in the future, because this is sometimes an important part of securing agriculture in Austria throughout the family structures.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11976	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e11994	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, Mr Scheuch said that agriculture would actually benefit from agricultural diesel and that the crisis of agriculture would be solved. That's completely incomprehensible what you're saying here. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: An important part!]] Just the opposite will be the case! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Especially the future strategies for agriculture, that is renewable energy, the bio-fuels that farmers have to produce and that we have to produce in order to achieve the climate change objectives, are hindering your policy! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It will be cheaper too!]] So not even for the “future farmers” do something, quite the contrary!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12064	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance pursuant to Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority, and the request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Mr Molterer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Colleagues, on the greatest tax relief in the Second Republic. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority, and the request is accepted. (E 35.) 2. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors pursuant to section 32e of the Rules of Procedure. 4 GOG on the examination of the conduct of the Federal Ministry of Finance in respect of privatisation and dissemination measures since 1.1.2002, in particular sales preparations for companies of the ÖIAG and awards to external consultants in connection with legal projects (administrative reform, organisational structure of the resort, state reform, privatisation legislation) and public relations (356 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12125	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Herbe. Its voluntary time limit is 6 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12149	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There have already been a number of mistrusts against the Minister of Finance, and that is right, but there has not yet been one thing: that the Minister of Finance does not even mention himself. This is unique and for the first time, ladies and gentlemen, and, Minister, this is pathetic! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Minister, according to his own information, welcomed this item on the agenda. I very much hope, Minister, that this joy will become a joy of information and that you will not only rejoice here, because in a whole series of questions there is an urgent need for information. Less for the joy, more for the fun is Mr Finz. We all, ladies and gentlemen, recall the sounding laughter of the domestic journalists of Austria in the failed whitewashing of the Secretary of State. But, Mr. State Secretary, you did on 26 May. Mr President, I would like to say again that a proper procedure has been carried out here, which only the industrial associations have donated. Therefore, Mr State Secretary: Stop being funny. I ask you to: Step back, right away! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ and the ÖVP, it will be a bit blatant for you, for the Secretary of State has clearly stated – I quote Finz from the APA – that: “In the opinion of the financial officials, the homepage Karl-Heinz Grasser served exclusively in his capacity as Minister,and not as a private person.” So: “function as Minister”. Ladies and gentlemen! We have now examined the actions of the Minister of Finance in the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, including public relations. “Function as Minister”, said the Secretary of State. And what do you write in your report, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP? – That was not a subject of investigation. Everything is open to the last detail. No questions have been answered unanswered. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't let yourself laugh like Finz! The Minister of Finance – and this will always be forgotten – always claims that he knows nothing, has nothing to do with this homepage. It was a little different in the middle of last year. At that time, he told “NEWS”: “I don’t want a wrong look. That is why I have called for a change of financing from the association." Mr Minister, say something about this! In the middle of last year, they called for a change of financing. And to the question of “NEWS”: “Who pays in the future?”, Grasser answers: “I am very likely to pay this project myself from my salary.” So, Mr. Minister, do you pay for it yourself now? Christoph Neumayer, spokesperson of the Industrial Union, says: “The Minister of Finance has approached us and has requested donations....” Grasser says to the “Kronen Zeitung”: I make it clear once again that I never asked anyone for money!, but says in the ORF: I have tried to donate for social projects in our country. Minister! Clarify all this, because that's really incredible! They are so bad with the population... [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Dreamsman!]] [[Further call at the ÖVP:Witzbold!]] Half of the Austrians are against him! ‘Authorised against Grasser’ means: 49 percent say “partly, ” 20 percent“ fully. ” And to read in the “profile” at the very moment, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, the sympathy values, which the Minister was always particularly proud of: from 75 percent “good opinion” to now only 47 percent fell. – That speaks volumes, that speaks for itself. [[Abg. Hornek: Tell you about it, too, Mr Colleague.]] Do you know, Mr President-in-Office of the control body, what bothers people most? - If they're sold for stupid. You want to know how much money this homepage costs and who donated. A homepage costs, if it is a luxury version, a maximum of € 25 000. However, this association has already been donated fifteen times. So, Minister, what happened to the money? You have an opportunity to answer this today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this report, which you obviously want – and I have no other signals – to decide on all the serious issues today, you say that everything in connection with grasses would have been disclosed and clarified in the last detail and therefore no questions remained unanswered. Parliamentary Scheuch once meant – and that's not long ago, that was last October –: In its final effect, Grasser will do well to clean this up. Otherwise, the Secretary of State Finz may have to go and buy Persil again to wash the west of the Minister again. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP! They are on it today and apparently ready to adopt a report here, which is degrading this National Council to a laundry. And I've got to tell you, in an honorable washing process, things would be cleaner. But you're making things even more dirty with your whitewashing attempt today!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12229	The next speaker was Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12248	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The Standing Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions has, on the basis of a request from SPÖ, carried out a comprehensive examination of the conduct of the Federal Ministry of Finance in respect of privatisation and dissemination measures since 1. January 2002, in particular sales preparations for ÖIAG companies as well as awards to external consultants related to legal projects, such as administrative reform, organisation structure of the department, state reform, and public relations. This request was justified, inter alia, by the fact that the planned sale of public funds is taking place at a bad time and that this will result in the sale of public enterprises at sludder prices at the distance. The acquisition of external consultants and the resulting costs as well as the procedures for awarding them were criticised. It was also criticised that the Minister of Finance had alleged that he had made tenders for advertising contracts. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have not heard anything from my colleague Herb about his request. The Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, during a total of nine committee meetings, has been more intensive and comprehensive in dealing with the various topics and has invited a considerable number of persons to do so. In contrast to the usual practice of the competent minister appearing only once in the committee, Mr. Grasser was on the 11th. ==References== Several hours of December 2003 each and has answered the questions addressed to him comprehensively and competently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] [[Abg. Old man: crazy!]] Other information was available: Mr President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Fierce, Mr Dipl.-Bw. Heinzel, Dr. Michaelis and Dipl.-Ing. Wielsch, Dr. Schramm, Dipl.-Ing. Ramprecht, Karl Plech, the university professors Kletecka and Dr. Bogner. As regards the advisory agreements, it should be noted that, on the basis of the comprehensive projects, it was useful and necessary to contribute external consultants with international experience to these major projects in addition to the experts of the Ministry of Finance. It should also be noted that no single contract and no issue of the Federal Ministry of Finance was carried out without a legal basis. The award procedures were carried out according to international standards and were carried out by an award commission consisting of more than ten persons, including two university professors and highly qualified specialists from the respective fields and in the field of contract and contract law, an elaborate procedure to ensure maximum objectivity and transparency. The advisory costs are based on the transaction value and the performance provided and move in an internationally usual framework between one and a half percent of the transaction volume. Bundesbebeschaffings GmbH is a striking example of efficient consulting services. With a purchase volume of € 290 million, a savings potential of € 29 million was achieved in the first year. The advisory costs amounted to €3.3 million. Another example is the restructuring of financial management, with advice costs of €452,000 on the one hand facing a savings potential of €250 million on the other hand in the next few years. In the course of the consultation of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG, Dipl.-Bw. Heinzel, and the Board of Directors, Michaelis and Wieltsch, made clear the contrasting views on Austrian economic policy: On the one hand, the opposition, which continues to want to preserve state influence, and on the other hand, the government providing an efficient privatisation programme to increase business market opportunities and improve the competitiveness of businesses. This is a special achievement when one recalls that in the past state-owned companies have been aided for years by means of taxes in millions and subsequently sold for a symbolic schilling. These facts disprove the claim that it would be thrown away and dirty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With regard to the public work of the Federal Ministry of Finance, it should be noted that target group-oriented transmission of information from the department is an important concern. The financial expenses for this are within the scope of what was common in the past. In return, I can inform you that the city of Vienna is spending twenty million schillings a year on such regulations and measures, namely public information. [[Abg. Big truck: 40 million €!]] – Zig million €, I thank you for the correction. [[Abg. Big truck: 40 million!]] In comparison, these expenses are quite modest. Our Federal Minister of Finance stands for a zero deficit in 2001 and 2002, a reduction in interest costs for the corresponding government debt and savings through administrative reform, and a significant part of Austria's position in the European ranking is in excellent third place. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The... Subject-matter of investigation, Mr. Colleague! This has nothing to do with the Committee.]] ==References====External links== January 2004: ‘Less budget deficit as expected. Grass becomes ‘EU pattern student’’. There's nothing to add to it!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12338	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12357	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen. This was not a committee, Mr Hornek, but it was a committee that has the name ‘Stand Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions’, and I do not know at all how you come here to announce it as a common practice in this committee that a minister must be present only once. You may be mistaken with other committees! . We will not be afraid now because the Federal Minister for Finance has shown us the grace to appear there twice. [[Call the ÖVP: on the matter!]] We will also come to see how this survey was conducted in the process. But I want to come back on one thing, if we look at it chronologically: A permanent subcommittee will normally be provided with an audit order every six months. In this case, this was done by the SPÖ Group. She was alone, and I don't want to admit that I personally assessed the subject differently in terms of his drama and dynamics. A strong weight was placed on the so-called external advisory contracts. I remember saying in the first few days that I do not need such a discovery as the SPÖ colleagues, because I felt that external consulting agreements in themselves are not bad. This is also – and right now – a question of weighing: Can this be done in the house? Can't it be done in the house? Does the process of external consulting provide appropriate benefits, so that this would even be good overall? That is why I am saying this because I want to be of benefit to us that we have approached this matter in this way. This has also been your argument, Mr Federal Minister, until the end, and you are probably going to make these comparisons again today – if you say so at last. All I have to say is to pre-empt a summary of the matter: I have been taught a much worse! It was shocking for me, and the suspicions that had been based on this test order have been more than confirmed. I am not going to fail to confirm this as the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, who then accepted this report. It was even worse than the applicants were likely to expect at that time. – This is a first inter-remeum in the matter. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We are now constantly fighting for the procedure in these committees in the field of control. A brief comment on this: It is indeed true that this discrepancy – minority law for the establishment, but the use of the instrument in the Committee through majority decisions – always leads to the most curious manifestations. I therefore think this is worth mentioning, because it is one of the points in need of repair – in view of the next reform of the Rules of Procedure, whoever deals with it – if you want to take these committees seriously. It also needs certain minority rights in carrying out an investigation, otherwise we always have a pat there, which leads to nothing. And let's be honest: Let us perhaps make a few studies less, but it is more decent, so that a minority can start something with it! One could also agree on a compromise if there is a fear that then every few months some other issue with “violence” – under quotation marks – will be disrupted. The problem we have found here again is only – I am not going to find out, Mr Hornek, I cannot help you at all –: We've had to deal with fruitification. We've had it to do with it! For example, the majority in the Committee has prevented certain questions from being answered by the Minister for Finance. [[Abg. Hornek: But not from the opposition, Mr. Colleague!]] It even went so far as to read pre-fabricated questions to the Minister of Finance, which were obviously known to the Ministry of Finance before, because the Minister of Finance then used a wretched time to read something about these pre-fabricated questions. At that time, he did not go as well as he did today in this political debate. Then – otherwise he rarely did – he held to a very long communiqué and read it in a word. If you are interested: Check the minutes of your colleagues! . I think this is a low point in a Committee on Enlightenment. You can't work like that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the end, you don't do well. Nevertheless, it has succeeded in bringing some things to light. I am going to address this immediately, but I should like to stress one aspect that has become so particularly relevant right now: Many of those who have actually practically been forced to be questioned by themselves have, with your majority, prevented you from saying that – let us say it with caution – among other things – I only call one of them – the chief of the cabinet of the Minister of Finance, Mr Matthias Winkler, and that, although the subject-matter of this committee was the Ministry of Finance itself, so the Minister of Finance, as you can see when you read the audit order. Nevertheless, it was prevented by a majority from the fact that this chief of the cabinet had to declare there – and this in the light of the fact that the Minister of State has always said in substantial parts of the subject matter: I don't! Mr. Federal Minister, you are the non-participative third party. Mr Matthias Winkler is involved. But we must not question this because you have prevented it. – Once you can agree on something! That's what I call fruitification! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am referring to the summaries to the points of content. One thing fits exactly: Mr. Federal Minister, as far as non-responsibleness – in turn non-responsibleness – is concerned with the so-called home affairs of the Committee, you have been responsible for this, and I am not going to give the Committee a word now, on the grounds that this is not an act of execution, that it has nothing essentially to do with the public, that it is located somewhere in the more private sphere, and that it is therefore not only a matter of investigation, but rather a matter of dissatisfaction. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Go Kogler! You didn't say anything about the tax reform!]] – Again, it is obvious that an advisory agreement has been commissioned to support it. At least, however, the Federal Chancellery was tried to justify this opinion. To that end, I say: Good. On the same day, however, Mr Finz, the State Secretary, took up the so-called whitewashing, as this is always called here. On the same day and at the same time – also a low point of control democracy – when the Minister of Finance was questioned – under the sounding laughter of those present, it was announced that there was no tax duty, on the grounds that this was in the public domain of the Minister of Finance, not in private! Yes, have you finally agreed? Why don't both of you take a position on this? Both can't be right! – That’s what I call low point! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaál: That's it!]] The sphere of consulting contracts: Look, Mr Federal Minister, we are now in the problem of the fact that you have said that such advisory agreements would save billions of money. Do you know what you did? – They have simply aggregated the potential privatisation revenues in this area, which were also research objects, and compared them to the consultant’s fee. Yes, please, that's not the return of a consultation! The return on advice is that you can sell more expensive stuff – that's how you've done it – or if you save yourself something else. [[Abg. Neudeck: He did that! It used to cost a schilling!]] You never talked about this return! I'll give you an example where this has been awfully wrong: The KPMG, which will also interest us otherwise, has almost €800 000 for the sale – only the consulting and resolution services – of the federal publishing company say and write about € 800 000 – that must be imagined once! – and this with planned 24 million privatization proceeds. – You know, you’re a lot above the already high percentage of one percent for consultants in such privatisations. I think this is a scandal! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And then come here and explain the ratio of €24 million to €800 000, that is the return! - That's a milkmaid bill! It's not even worthy of the Himmelpfortgasse, even since you moved in there. That is really under any criticism! And you wanted to make that clear to the public. But you didn't get through with that. We have found regular advisory contracts, where the call for tender has not been properly dealt with. [[Abg. Hornek: Where? Mr. Col., where?]] – Among other things, at the commissions of the banking house Lehman & Brothers. They are still guilty of informing us about what useful services Mr Muhr has done in this context. You didn't do that either. Maybe you'll take advantage of the opportunity here and today. At the end of the day [[Call to the liberals: Thank God!]] The Committee has also moved a little – and we have not even had a dispute with you, Mr Finanzminister – – – in order not to mention this, perhaps also to make a small reconciliation: The privatisation of the Voest and other companies – the BUWOG we will have as a discussion topic again – was a central issue. The matter with Mr Siegi Wolf was a subject, but also the one with Mr. Veit Sounde, because this was just running parallel. Mr Heinzel, Chairman of the Board of Supervisors of the ÖIAG, found open words in the Committee to be too grateful. These spoke out somehow, too, and from that day on there has been an enormous pressure on Veit Sound, so that in this unsustainable situation – completely incompatible: Buying interest and membership in the Supervisory Board; but you already have to answer that these people are renewing themselves there, as they say – the next day at 2 p.m. – he has refused any opinion on it – finally abandoned this function. I think that was good for Veit Sounde, which was good for the ÖIAG and in the sense of a reputation of the so-called economic location. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] I would add that we had no dissent on this point – but that was the only one – because the Federal Minister for Finance also stressed on this occasion, but also with others, that it no longer corresponds to its taste, and could prove that he has always said in public: Yeah, that's incompatible! See, Minister of State: If you are asked for hours, you can still get a grain of good!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12516	Before we come to the brief debate at 3 p.m. on the question of the reply of the Federal Minister for Finance, I would like to take this opportunity to give Mr Gusenbauer a call for order. He said at 10.51 a.m. in the last debate I was currently in the chair: “On the basis of your corporate tax reduction, no more euro will be invested in Linz. – Don’t lie to people constantly, Federal Chancellor!” I then gave Mr Gusenbauer the opportunity to take back the accusation of the lie. In the heat of the debate, however, he obviously overlooked this or did not want to do so. At any rate – be it, Mr Deputies: I need to give you an order call. - He's given it. [[Abg. Prince, pride comes before the case, Mr Gusenbauer!]] We are now either going to speak for 2 minutes by Mr Neudeck or to interrupt the sitting briefly. – Mr Neudeck, do you want to start now and then talk on? – Then I interrupt the session for a minute to start with the question. [[Abg. Neudeck: Let's wait!]] The session will be suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12570	I'll start the interrupted session again. Short debate on the reply to the question 1006/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12594	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 1006/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. In accordance with Rule 57a of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker shall speak for more than 5 minutes in this debate. The first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes. The member of the Federal Government – in this case the Federal Minister for Finance – should not comment for more than 10 minutes. We're going like this now. I ask Mrs Moser to open the debate. She signed the request. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12630	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! This question is most likely the only way to make a statement to our very silent Finance Minister today. Today morning – after his diction – his masterpiece was discussed: the so-called tax reform. Whoever did not speak was the Minister of Finance. Now let him talk! This morning, in the debate on the so-called tax reform, we also received new information on Mr Finanzminister's tax morale. It was about the extent to which he is not liable for millions of amounts – calculated in Schilling. Whoever was silent was the Minister of Finance. Now he should have the opportunity, perhaps, to comment on this! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have also heard this morning that it is always a concern of this federal government to press ahead with privatisation and to reduce public debt. Now in the afternoon, we are discussing the subcommittee report of the Court of Auditors, on which the issues of privatisation were major and central, and the privatisation of the state-owned housing companies was an essential point. Within the scope of the topic concerning state housing companies – 62,000 apartments are owned by the federal government! – has shown that this privatisation action has largely not been prudently or poorly prepared and will most likely not bring the yield from which one assumed and which was the reason why one has made the political decision to take this step towards privatisation. Minister! Thankfully, you have answered a request again, but unfortunately not completely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I want to go to medias res right now: Point one: Mr Minister, you have repeatedly said that the sale of these 62,000 apartments is urgently necessary in order to reduce public debt. That is why the joint use of these societies was also dissolved, already by the budget accompanying laws in 2000. Minister! What you do not know and what you could never have answered to me is the fact that since the dissolution of the public utility in these housing companies, the apartments that are free to rent again are no longer maintained in the care as before, because, for example, you, Mr Finanzminister, and in the future investors are most likely to take the profits on a continuous basis. They prefer to serve large investors, be it tax reform, capital companies, or industrial associations, to which you maintain close contacts, and whether it be in the area of large investors in the sale of the state-owned housing companies. You are very happy to use these clients! At whose cost does that happen? – Also at the expense of future tenants who then move into apartments that have not been optimally renovated! – I know this firsthand from a WAG employee from Linz, who said that on Bindermichl, running apartments are handed over, which no longer have the standard they used to have: It is no longer all painted out, and the sanitary facilities are no longer fully repaired, either because profits have already been withdrawn or because one wants to make sure that investors can then take over a correspondingly large capital stock. That's the fact! This is an early sequence of your privatisation policy in the housing sector! Mr Grasser, you have been present in the Subcommittee twice on this subject and have given us a speech and an answer and have also had to comment on the criticism of the Court of Auditors. This is our basic problem regarding medium-term financial planning and the medium-term income situation of the Republic. There you were informed by the President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Fierce that a sale would be worthwhile only if a sales income of €600 million for the WAG and the BUWOG alone was achieved, because it is only more favourable from this sum to give up profits from these companies in order to avoid interest payments by reducing public debt. It was difficult for me to assume from the outset that, on the basis of this calculation, this privatisation is not going in the direction you are hoping for, but is even a nonsense or counterproductive in the medium term and will certainly also be criticized in further Court of Auditors reports. I don't want to talk any further about the consequences that tenants have to expect, for example, when the securitisation variant is introduced. For me, therefore, the time has now come – and that is why this question has been discussed – to which you could tell us how far you have already progressed internally in your decisions. You have not answered the question I have asked, Mr Minister, which group of persons now makes exactly the decision...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12701	Mrs Colleague, the light is not shining, but the 10 minutes are about!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12716	Look at the watch! It's 15.06 a.m. Excuse me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12734	Mrs Colleague, you are right! My watch here has a mistake. - You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12750	Thank you. – This is really the latest method! You can always look forward to Mr President's ideas. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm sorry, but that's never been there! I will continue: Mr Minister, the time for this question debate has come for us now, too, because you informed us by your staff that you will decide in the middle of January in which direction you will go, whether and to whom will be sold or whether you will be securitised. Now we have the end of January. I would be interested, Minister, in how this internal decision has now taken place and which people were particularly involved. In your answer to the question, you did not answer this question, so it would be very appropriate for you to do so now! If one listens a little behind the scenes or turns into informed circles, then one hears that the securitisation variant is preferred, because that is now so common internationally. Of course, even according to your information in the Subcommittee, Lehman Brothers have certain advantages. These consist first of a higher fee and second in ongoing revenue on the settlement of the securitisation and the shares. Thirdly – and that is strange, Minister – one can hear behind the scenes that a certain bank called Credit Suisse First Boston by Lehman Brothers is to be assigned to deal with the securitisation now in concrete terms. Is there something about it or not? It also says behind the scenes that your friend Muhr has closer relationships with this Credit Suisse First Boston Bank. There is now a network of friendships, and there is reason to suspect that at the beginning of the discussion, whether the federal apartments are selling and which large international investment banks are to be used for settlement, something has begun to spin out. Now there is practically a rounding off of all these friendly discussions and consultations, which will then lead to a result that is double disadvantage to the tenants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] You can also continue the WAG example into the future: If current rental income is securitised and then distributed to investors via fund shares, then less or nothing remains under the line to receive the apartments, except – apologise! – the conservation and improvement contribution. This is then reflected in the quality of the apartments. Experts from the area of these state-owned housing companies have told me over and over again that the securitisation is the worst variant, because one can calculate more or less that these buildings have run down after 30 years. And this is about the not small floor of 62,000 apartments. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the context of these housing companies, it is also necessary to clarify also with regard to the Carinthian Landtagswahl. Minister! What about the pre-purchasing right of the head of state of Carinthia for the “Villacher”? After all, the “Villacher” with over 12,000 apartments is a relatively large package that the country of Carinthia wants to buy again. – That is clear, because in the country of Carinthia, there are free people who always let the social heart poach quite intensively. The country of Carinthia still has at least a social housing policy on its lips and therefore the right of pre-purchasing. – What exactly does it look like now? On the other hand, it can happen that the “Villachers” will become non-profit when the “Vienna Railwayers” are now finally regaining the common good. There's still a procedure going on. – Perhaps you can tell us something about it, because then the floor of the apartments you want to sell will be reduced from 62 000 by about 17 000, which are the “Wieners” and the “Villachers” in common. In view of this, I really wonder: What sales result can you obtain that is more than what can be seen as a minimum income, namely 600 million? Against this background, I can only repeat this, the whole process and the entire process of privatising a social housing stock in Austria is both social and fiscal counterproductive. It is a purely ideological act: They want to privatize. They want to serve the capital. We know about your tax reform, and we know that about your private tax morale. This is where a circle closes. Minister! Please answer the open questions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12813	For an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Grasser to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12832	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Moser, I am very pleased to have left you this morning in the debate! Obviously, you have been waiting for my groundbreaking statements on the biggest tax reform in the history of the Second Republic and on sustainable discharges. But I can assure you: The Federal Chancellor, the Vice-Chancellor and the ladies and gentlemen of the government groups have so well described this tax reform that the negotiators of this tax reform had nothing to add here. She stands for herself. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To the apartments: Mrs Moser and I are specializing in this question, because, if I see it correctly, more than 22 questions have been put on this matter. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: There are already 24!]] So there's already 24. Thank you many times, ladies and gentlemen. There is a Court of Auditors report on this issue, and there have also been four Council of Ministers and two legislative amendments in this context. Four Court of Auditors committees are held on this issue, of which a good part has already taken place, there has been a short debate the last time, and there is a short debate today. Madam President, you said that this is an ideological question. – I am quite right that this is also an ideological question, because this federal government has come out of deep conviction and has said: Private is certainly better than the state! – And I am very surprised that you are always arguing about it, because Austria is the country in which it has really been proved enough that the private sector works much, much better than the state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Think back to the time of social democratic responsibility in the seventies and eighties. Unfortunately, with the nationalized industry, God’s tens of billions of euros and thousands of jobs in the enterprises have been lost! That was the policy that was made at the time. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, it's good to say: Privately, it's better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are fans of the market economy. We are convinced market economists, ladies and gentlemen, even if we can also ensure that we can repay government debt with revenue from the sale through this privatisation! I am with you – and I have said this the last time – that, of course, there is a connection between the sum that we actually get through privatisation and the percentage to which the debt is financed. Today, this is about an order of 4.8 percent, or we take the simplicity half five percent. We know that we have to expect 25 million € sustainable dividends from the individual housing companies. However, this does not result in the amount of €600 million that the President of the Court of Auditors has once mentioned in unknown knowledge of the dividend payments, but in an amount of €500 million that we must receive. That's what we found last time. I therefore assume that if we exceed this amount, we can jointly say that this was a successful privatisation because we can repay more government debt and therefore save ourselves a little compared to a permanent dividend flow that we can achieve for the Republic. I would be very pleased if we both managed to achieve a consensus on this question! [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I would also like to point out that a very, very important point in this privatisation is that we have offered tenants the opportunity to buy these apartments for the first time. This has not done a federal government in front of it! We said: We are in favour of property, we advocate ownership if it is possible. We are not afraid of ownership, but we are in favour of ownership! And if you are developing... [[Abg. Eder: How many have bought?]] How many have bought? – More than 1 000 of BUWOG’s purchasing interests have been identified and more than 430 contracts have already been concluded and more than 180 contracts have already been concluded at the WAG. Ladies and gentlemen! Each individual decides whether to buy, use or not. If you look at how low the social rents are in this context, then you know why this option to buy was used only by a certain part. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] But in your time, honourable Member, there has never been the possibility for tenants to buy these apartments! We were pleased to be able to create this opportunity. We said: We'll give you this opportunity, we'll give you the perspective: Buy these apartments! And at the same time, we have assured – and this is important to me – that nothing changes in the relationship between today's tenants and their contractual rights and nothing in the tenant protection regulations if there is a new owner. That means I can assure you: Even after the sale, of course, the strict rules of the housing law apply to tenants. That was always important to us. There can be no maladministration of the tenants by this sale of the companies. That is why there are only opportunities, namely opportunities for tenants and opportunities for taxpayers and therefore opportunities for the Republic of Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Madam President, you have asked: Who then decides on actual privatisation? – I think you know the legal basis. We have made several Council of Ministers lectures, and you will know that in Parliament a recovery authorisation law has been adopted. With this law, the Minister of Finance has been commissioned to use the shares as best as possible, and that is exactly how we will proceed. After that, of course, we have to present this proposal to the Council of Ministers. There will be an appropriate government template, and there will be a decision of the Council of Ministers, and, of course, as provided for by law, there will be a report which will be discussed in the National Council's main committee. You asked what it looks like to sell versus securitisation. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to say to you: We want to decide whether we sell the shares or choose the securitisation procedure, i.e. the securitisation of future revenue, not to meet too early, but to remain in a parallel procedure with which we keep both of our possibilities open in order to remain as competitive as possible, i.e. to have as strong a competition as possible in order to achieve the best possible price for the sale of the shares. The first indicative offers have been made, as you know. Lehman Brothers was commissioned as an investment bank. You have referred to it, and I would just like to make a comment in one by-word, because in the other debate, Mr Kogler has accused me of reading a number of things here. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You know that we have not presented you with any procedure as detailed as this award procedure to Lehman. We had set up an award commission of eleven members, independent experts, law professors, business professors, finance ministers, ministerial councils who took responsibility for it. A Commission of 11 members decided on this question in a very transparent and objective procedure, according to points that had been broken down to the detail. I once again confirmed to you in the answer to the question that the Lehman offer in the alternative offer was 1 83.26 points, in the alternative offer 2 82.14 points and in the main offer was 81.64 points. The second place had 79.05 points. I would like to stress once again: It was a very transparent and objective procedure, which is truly over all doubts and criticisms, because we have prepared it very well and professionally. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It was important that we serve internationally recognised consultants for a transaction that is €500 to €600 million upward from the privatisation revenue. I gave you the track record of Lehman Brothers. I told you that they were number one or number two in the exploitation of real estate in recent years, so they are a truly experienced investment bank in this area. I repeat: Karlheinz Muhr does not play a role at all in this entire privatisation, nor does the Commercial Council of Plech, which is otherwise often mentioned by you, play a role in the question of this privatisation. That means we're going parallel: with securitisation on the one hand and with Share Deal on the other. You have still asked the question of the pre-purchasing right of Carinthia. In this regard, I can only tell you that not too long ago I had a conversation with the head of state of Carinthia. He told me: Then, if the final offers are on the table at the end of the procedure, the country of Carinthia will decide whether to exercise this right of pre-purchasing, to use it or not to use it. I think these were all the questions you asked, Madam Members. You've been in touch with the maintenance. I would like to assure you: It was last week Mr. Schuster from the BUWOG and Mr. Managing Director Schön from the WAG with me. Both have assured me that the maintenance, as they have made them exemplary in recent years, will of course continue to happen just as much. That is, we do the best possible in the sense of a customer relationship, a service orientation for the tenants and try to provide them with the best product – of course also in the future. That is why I should also like to say to you this time: Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, the award has been completely correct, impeccable and exemplary. Secondly, we have given tenants a very important opportunity to acquire property. And thirdly, we have put great value on the fact that there can be no trouble with the tenants. We are acting in the Austrian interest, in the interest of taxpayers. We are trying to get as much money as possible and pay back government debt in order to cope with the legacy that we have taken over very slowly. I can assure you: We are on a good and right path for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12934	Thank you very much, Minister of State. We are now going into the debate. Each political group shall speak with one or more Members. The speaking time is 5 minutes each. Mr Grossruck. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e12959	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The opposition has been filming a film entitled "Grasser-Jagd" for several months or almost a year. Today we have the x-te folding – I don't know how much it is, anyway: “Grasser-Jagd”, the x-te. On the morning there was a distrust request, now we have a question response, there is also a subcommittee on it. You are constantly changing the title, but not the content, because you know that the content is fad, that it does not cause anything that it does not interest anyone. [[Abg. Mandak: Is that not what you think?]] They're turning a bad policing crime. You know why? - Because you're missing the culprit! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now you are inventing a perpetrator, according to the motto “The left hunting society is thinking and saying that we have to invent one”, namely a successful one – that is, the perpetrator profile – a competent, a popular and a far-sighted one. And that's where Karl-Heinz Grasser comes in. He's now the culprit you want for your political crime, ladies and gentlemen. Grasser Karl-Heinz is supposed to be your culprit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] You know that the SPÖ is doing that. She commissioned that about a year and a half ago. I can inform you once again. About a year and a half ago, the SPÖ commissioned a study entitled “Network Red:White:Rot” by 2 million schillings. It was a matter of analysing who could become dangerous. The results of this study – I read literally – were as follows: Especially Karl-Heinz Grasser manages to play a very positive role among the central groups of voters of SPÖ. The authors therefore recommend that Karl-Heinz Grasser, Minister of Finance, be permanently disavowed. So the original text in this study. In German this means: Do bad where it goes, “approach” where it goes, immerse untruths where it goes – a little will already hang. This is your method, ladies and gentlemen of the left! And Mr Matznetter is also very special on television. You just need to be careful that you will not become dangerous to your party president as far as the sympathy values are concerned. [[Abg. Neudeck: The negatives!]] You're on it and you're on it to take the rank. But I am surprised that you, Mrs Moser, whom I appreciate as a serious colleague, are here in this hunting company. You know the whole story, you know all the reports of the Subcommittee, you know the answers to the questions. Karl-Heinz Grasser answered everything in a minute, with acribie and carefully. You have invited it x-time to the subcommittee meetings. You know what it's all about. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's not true!]] Go out and say that we are ideologically not agreeing with what is happening in terms of privatisation! Fight On the other hand, but don't stylize him as a culprit, because something politically doesn't fit in! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Show your profile, say, we do not agree, we have a different access to politics, we do not want privatisation, we still want centrally managed state monopoly! Then the voters know how to estimate that. But you know exactly: That doesn't matter to the voters. The elector, the citizen is independent, he wants to decide for himself. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Only corruption doesn't matter well! That's not what the voters want either!]] He wants private initiative, he also wants ownership. And that's exactly why you don't go into the content, but shoot at the person Karl-Heinz Grasser! It is, I believe, not serious that you are here as a hunter from the Moser Valley or from the green forest along with the SPÖ-Jagdgesellschaft. I should like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that there is nothing more to say because everything has already been said by the Minister for Finance and everything else is to be read in the documents, as always with a four-liner; this time it is a six-liner. [[Abg. Scheibner: Four liners!]] For the x-t time is stated: Comrades, it's Grasser-Jagd! Out of all pipes is shot by the Greens and Comrades. Instead of hits, it's only pipers and the hunters the losers.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13066	The next speaker with a speaking time of 5 minutes is Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13085	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You know, Mr. Großruck, that might be a tenacious issue for you. I can tell you: For 60,000 families affected by the sale of the federal apartments, which today do not know who their owners will be tomorrow and how their rents will develop, this issue is not fad, but it is a burning issue, so it is good that we talk about it today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck: You're insecure!]] The sale of the federal apartments is the largest transfer of assets in the second Republic. There are 60 000 apartments, 4.5 million square meters of living space, 27,000 parking spaces and more than 500 business properties to be thrown away. Mr Finanzminister! It's totally unbelievable if you still say here today: We wanted to make the tenants a homeowner. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: You have prevented it with your campaign!]] Call the numbers! One percent of the WAG-Meter in Upper Austria has managed to afford the apartments at the highest prices you have offered. 99 percent of the tenants couldn't buy the apartments because you offered them too expensive. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: They didn't want to buy it!]] But now you're ruining them to real estate investors! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is not only the criticism of you, but also the criticism in the Court of Auditors' assessment report, which clearly mentions, in terms of prices for tenants, that apartments have been offered to tenants at higher prices than for third parties. Mr Federal Minister, the question is: Who's cutting? Who is the profiter of this real estate shift you are planning here? – You spoke two years ago of a proceeds of €2 billion. Then you've engaged a syndicate, friendly society, namely Lehman Brothers. These have suddenly spoken only more of a proceeds of 600 million € to a maximum of 1 billion €. Then you have another famous friend, Mr. Plech, who now sits in everywhere where it is about federal property. He spoke in the Committee only more about a proceeds of €400 million by sale. There is no better proof, I believe, that this is a disaster action of yours than the statement by the President of the Court of Auditors, who speaks of the fact that only as a proceeds from the sale of the WAG and the BUWOG would have to be worth €600 million, so that it is worth budgeting at all. So: Your promotion is not worth the tenant, your promotion is not worth the budget. But your action is worth your friends, for Mr. Plech, who will be the profiteur, and is worth it for the consulting firm, which has already paid €10 million from the taxpayer for actually dubious consulting costs. These are the rulers who benefit from your policy! The tenants in these apartments, these 60 000 families, unfortunately, remain on the track and have not been able to justify any housing property. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Maybe he'll cut too! Maybe there are backflows!]] The question at all is whether damage claims can be made to the Federal Minister, as the budget and thus the taxpayers really lose millions. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's wrong!]] Mr Finanzminister! Sew in your privatization will Clearly, everything that is not non- and nailproof in this country is the property of the Austrians. Your insanity goes so far that you sell things you don't belong to. You write down the sale of five housing companies you said: These are no longer non-profit. We don't need any more protected tenants, they're supposed to buy expensive apartments. Unfortunately, in your policy, people in this country are only getting poorer and just a few like you are getting richer and richer. You, Minister of Finance, say: I'm selling these five companies. – One of them doesn’t belong to you now, however. It's non-profit, so you can't spoil it – and another with great probability, either. But € 10 million has been spent on an opinion on things that you do not belong to and for which you do not have a legal basis. Under the rule, the balance sheet is clear: It has only caused damage! The tenants didn't get a chance to buy a flat. The tenants are standing today and do not know how tomorrow will make their rent and who will be homeowners. And you're just wasting public property to make friends get richer and profit from you. I really think it would be worth starting a compensation claim in the interest of the Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13217	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13245	Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer, I cannot tell you that because there will not be these rivers. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Net?]] But you're used to it, because you've been in the BUWOG for decades. That was a preliminary organisation of the SPÖ. [[Abg. That's why they're so sorry!]] Ask the staff there! That's where I have to tell you: It's not just ideology that you don't want this privatization of the housing companies, but it's up to you, because it's the party's bank that's going to be a little marauder. [[Abg. Eder:... Rosenstingl!]] That's a fact. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance is constantly being asked. I wonder why the colleagues from SPÖ above all criticise the fact that no one has bought. Excuse me, if I'm a tenant in a BUWOG object, in a BIG object or in a WAG object, then I hope from the party that probably got me this apartment, that it also advises me well, and not that it uses me as a political fist in a discussion. In fact, it would have been a positive policy if the Chamber of Labour, the union, the SPÖ and the tenants' association had chosen the tenants: What benefit do you have if you acquire the dwellings? Can we still talk about the price and perhaps enter into negotiations on what the pricing should look like? What happened? – It has been scandalized, it has been challenged to tenants. Of course, it is not possible to carry out a concept of priority sale to tenants. Against the wind of social democracy, piano is bad in social housing and cooperative housing. That is why the Minister of Finance can do no more than do that. As you refuse to agree to the tax reform, you have also missed an opportunity in this case where: You could really have acted socially democratically for the tenants and property... [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What do you deserve?]] – I don’t deserve anything because I put other categories in politics than you. For me, the criteria are not the merit of politics and good red wine, but the well-being of the people, Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer – or Mr Zweit-Klubobmann; I do not know what you are in your group now. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: But?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Reserve Klubobmann!]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Heinzl: You don't even believe that!]] If the forced happiness of the tenants in the cooperatives, that one paints every apartment white and for that the right social democratic craftsman probably gets a commission, has really stopped now and you hand over the apartment to the tenant and say that you can paint it as you want, then I find it positive, because that standard apartments are given worse, that can't be. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Grasser doesn't share with you?]] This would significantly harm the current or the next owner, because then the yield would not be secured. Ladies and gentlemen! It's hard to say, it doesn't matter... – Mr. Klubobmann Gusenbauer! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Is that true that Grasser doesn't share with you? Grasser doesn't share with you?]] It's Wurst whether Grasser shares with me, because if you don't get anything out of it and if we don't share anything, he has the same thing as me. So you don't need to try anything now... – The homepage discussion is coming after, because you have much more dirt on it – you can't say that – so dirt on the plug. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: As at the homepage!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. Eder: Stock!]] You don't need to distract because you have a bad conscience that you have advised the tenants very badly. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: All right, he didn't share!]] What's secured? – Whoever is the owner, whether these companies are non-profit or not, the tenants will remain protected in the future. It would have been much better for the tenants only if social democracy had taken over the representatives of the tenants and made them buyers. One thing is clear: There are no perpetrators and no victims in this discussion. Mr Grossruck said there's no culprit, but he's being searched for in Grasser. There are no victims. But if there were victims, then make politics on the back of these victims!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13447	The last speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13512	Mr President. Mrs. Moser couldn't see it before, but I looked at it from my seat: You, Mr President, are indeed not guilty of this'malversation' with the time-limit. It is important to me to note this because I often think that the business at the top of the Bureau is basically not that simple – in all the differences we have in the orderliness of various debates here. In any case, this was an occasion when, I believe, you should be defended once. But in the matter itself there is nothing to defend. Mr Federal Minister, of course you can talk about it: more private or more state? This is quite an ideological matter in the preliminary question. I am not personally fixed so much, but of course one could also think that a certain reservoir of apartments, which are close to the public's ownership, may have a meaning for certain purposes. But if we – or you, who really want to do so – really wanted to sell them, then immediately the next question remains open; this is what the control committees mentioned today have been doing. This should be done for the greatest possible benefit of taxpayers and for the greatest possible income. Where do we have the problem now? – They say that we have reached €500 million in sales value or that there is a critical limit to the securitisation variant. If we remember that at some point we have stood at more than €2 billion in terms of this appreciation, then I wonder what this brings when more and more consultants are being commissioned and when it comes to finding out that this is supposed to be less and less worth it. What's that all about? Do these consultants disagree so much? Is there a certain tactic behind that, to put the whole thing as deep as possible, so that the new owners can be sold low-priced so that the new owners can continue to supply themselves very well again by reselling? – The answers to these fundamental questions remain essentially open to this day. It is particularly interesting in that these first figures, where 2 billion total sales value is the case, have come, among other things, from a certain Mr Ramprecht. Well, what about this Mr. Ramprecht? – Mr. Ramprecht then became chairman of the Award Commission, which – see! – Lehman has chosen Brothers and not another bank. So, there's a certain need for information. I already have the question: What quality do these consultants have with which you are surrounded and who cost a certain sum of money, as we have found? There's something wrong with that! We suddenly land at €500 million, and see, the securitisation variant is in the game then! This could not be finally clarified in the Committee of Inquiry. To date, it is not clear – even after your reply – how exactly the invitation to tender or the award after the invitation to tender was made. While alternative offers were allowed in principle, that is right, we do not want to blame any more, but the question remains open: Did all providers know that the securitisation variant will have such a bearing value? In other words: How does the rating structure look like? Mr. Federal Minister for Finance, you always read – that was also the case in the Committee –: Main offer: Lehman Brothers: 81.64 points, second indent: 79.05 points. – Yes, that's not such a mega difference! We have already been trained in the Court of Auditors, which can mean everything! – Minor changes in certain qualitative criteria in the evaluation... – Yes, tomorrow’s issue of “NEWS” is more important, I agree with him. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: (in relation to Federal Minister Mag. Grasser and State Secretary Dr. Finz, reading both papers) They both read “NEWS”, they don’t have time!]] Poor changes can put the entire award result on the head! – There is no opinion on this. By the way, this is the same phenomenon as with the interceptors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] We'll have all of this here again and again, colleague Großruck. Just because you don't understand that, it's still not a non-material, but that's just saying that you want to put your head in the sand by the ÖVP in these things and then use six-man over the same sand. That's not going to happen! They still stay dry with it. Only: You have to get yourself a bad paper once so that your feet have a broken ground again in your argumentation. Now, if there is a big problem in every area of this award, I am finally wondering: What is this whole chain that you are constantly explaining to us when the real questions remain open, such as those concerning the Lord Muhr? That's a good acquaintance of you, mildly expressed. Is Muhr linked to the bank, which is now to deal with this matter when it comes to securitisation: yes or no? What's the deal with the Credit Suisse First Boston at the hat? Say that because you know for sure! - But you don't. Not only are our suspicions not cleared out, but they are essentially hardening themselves. You are unable or unwilling to clarify this, and I therefore suspect that Mrs. Moser will make further questions. Right!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13565	In the word, no one has been reported for this. No applications have been submitted. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13586	I shall now take the negotiations on the second. Agenda item again. Mr Neudeck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13608	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Delete from loud grass hunts You may not be here now, at which item we are currently on the agenda: This is the report of the Court of Auditors Subcommittee. [[Abg. Mandak: But that's nothing else!]] In this subcommittee, MEPs from the SPÖ and the Greens have repeatedly gone beyond the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. [[Abg. Brosz: Go, really?- Oh, my God!]] The Group Chairman of the SPÖ in the Court of Auditors will publish confidential information and minutes of a subcommittee meeting on his homepage, as always financed, although, as already mentioned, they are confidential, and this he did so in response to better knowledge. A presidential conference has been convened, and only after that has been held, colleague Herbs has agreed to withdraw these publications of the confidential protocols from the Internet. For my colleague Herbs, this procedure is a typical one, because either he passes on confidential information or he adorns himself with foreign feathers. It is currently self-advertising with a poster – that is a big campaign – where it says: ‘It shall be visible.’ Then he lists where he is to be the “great ” deck. It says on the poster: “ESTAG, K.H. Grasser Home-page, Grazer Messe, Agricultural Milliards.” Then the “Kronen Zeitung” sees itself getting to write the following – I quote –: “The lack of self-confidence in the SPÖ National Councillor Günther Herb has not yet been able to predict to anyone. Whether herbal lemonade or herbal mixture – more or less original, the mandate has beat the drums for itself. With his new poster campaign, however, the Member of Parliament is a little bit above the target. Although he has been involved in all thematic areas... as a discoverer, others have always acted on the front. In terms of ESTAG and trade fair, for example, the ‘Steir Crown’.’ So far to the deck or afterdeck herbs. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That wasn't convincing now!]] It should be noted that SPÖ members of the Court of Auditors have not shown any interest in the subject matter. Like a red thread, they want to hunt grass and they don't care about the content there. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Say something about the content!]] This has been shown by the questions they have asked. They asked questions which in no way had to do with the subject of the investigation. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Say something about the content!]] They tried to bring in day-to-day topics they had from the media, but they didn't take place there in any way. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Now you've been talking for so long, but haven't said anything about the content yet!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the privatisation wave is something that the SPÖ ideologically does not fit in, and therefore it has to be scandalized with the Minister of Finance. As Mr Kogler has said, it may not be quite right if I accept a privatisation income as a savings and come to a high amount, but if I look at how the SPÖ privatized in the years before, namely, by giving away AMAG or other companies or selling for a schilling and then shooting billions, I have to say: In this way, the argument that the sales proceeds is actually the profit to be justified. However, it should be noted that there have been real savings on the basis of the consultation agreements. In any case, these are undisputed. For example, when I assume from the Federal publisher that it is a small market for a large company in Austria, I consider a purchase price of €24 million to be quite respectable. In this respect, the consultation costs are to be seen. They are to be considered internationally. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it should be borne in mind that in this Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions you have only been scandalized and not content because you could not find any mistakes because there is no one. It seems that the SPÖ's party programme now stands inside: Hunting grass is fine!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13727	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. Preferred speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13745	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Work in the so-called small committee of inquiry, which the Minister of Finance has been focusing on, was actually marked by the fact that the two government parties have done everything they can to cover up the real situation. They tried, then, when it came to loading people who were necessary to bring light into this dark matter, to prevent this precisely by rejecting their charge. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: You weren't there at all!]] That is why it can be said that for six months you were obviously only interested in covering up the scandalous operations in the Ministry of Finance, in which the Minister is personally involved. This applies both to the financing of Mr Finanzminister's homepage and to the dubious procurement of the sale of the federal apartments, which we discussed earlier, where it has become clear that there is no reason to waste 10.9 million € on consultations that the Ministry of Finance itself could actually have carried out. It is also clear from the Court of Auditors' exercise report that the Ministry of Finance could have made these deliberations much more consistent and therefore would not have been necessary at all. When I remember what ÖVP and FPÖ have tried to cover up, I have to say: That was really adventurous throughout the area around the homepage! The fact is that the Minister of Finance – and this is exactly the Minister of Finance! – his tax liability has not been met. We have presented the actual facts in our minority report, which was therefore necessary because your report contains such empty words and is inseparable. We have clearly demonstrated that there is no well-known tax expert in Austria representing the legal opinion of Mr State Secretary, who has issued a personal license to the Minister for Finance. [[Call the ÖVP: Completely wrong!]] All well-known tax experts say that there is clearly a tax duty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you say this is not true, Mr State Secretary, I must say to you: The financial expert Werner Doralt said in the ORF “Abendjournal” that a special right was created for the individual case of Grasser that this was unique in the Second Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's it!]] – I welcome: It's really scandalous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr State Secretary, if you say this is not the case, I have to tell you: That's not knowing realities! Administrative Court Director Karl Werner Fellner, an expert on the Austrian tax system, said in the APA that donations from lobbyists are subject to political officials of the gift tax. – So there is, Minister of Finance, the suspicion that you have not complied with your tax duty, and that is scandalous! The only thing you have is a so-called Persil license from your deputy State Secretary Finz, and that's embarrassing. Mr Finanzminister! One thing has become clear in the negotiations of the so-called small committee of inquiry: Your flower-white vest, which you'd like to talk about, is dirty! They have committed serious crimes. They want to get rid of what you call upon the citizen to do, namely to pay his taxes. I had the impression, especially when I looked at the pictures of your activity in the last days, which have been more involved in the “pageviews” society, that your life in this Schickimicki society, in this world in which you go, has obviously led you to believe that the laws have to apply to all Austrians, except the Minister of Finance Grasser. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... Private life! That's what he put in a great budget! It obviously does not count for you what budget the finance ministers have carried out! They are in-teresturing the “page views”, but not the budget!]] You, Minister of Finance, obviously do not have any laws, you obviously do not have any rules of conduct, and for you there is obviously no political morality, and therefore, Minister of Finance, you are ready to withdraw!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13846	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13864	Mr President. High house! First of all, I must firmly reject Mrs Doris Bures' statement that the ÖVP and FPÖ in the committee had tried to cover up everything. . Previously, we heard from Mr Kogler, whom I would like to call as a witness here, that the Committee was particularly intensively exposed and particularly intensively consulted. So there's no way to talk about fruitification or cover-up. A particularly intensive point in the Committee's negotiations was the consultation costs incurred by the Ministry of Finance. The fact that the opposition parties entered the committee negotiations with very specific ideas in this matter is already seen as meaning, in the SPÖ's reasoning, that the advisory contracts were awarded to companies close to the Minister of Finance in various state transactions, although other offers were better, or that the difference in costs to the low-cost bidder was, according to the ‘NEWS’, transferred to the pockets of Grasser employees, or also to the fact that Mr Kogler here said that ‘with the resources of the taxpayer Schindluder had been driven’. That, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be said at all! We have already found in the Committee that although officials in the Ministry of Finance have very high competence, it is absolutely necessary to purchase services in these large sales that take place there. It is also much better than to hire still and no officials in the Ministry of Finance, which are then only partially used, but also cannot have the high level of competence of international consultants. If one had not done so, the Minister of Finance would have been able to take the accusation of negligence if the result had been worse than it actually had become. What are the results of the Committee's discussions? First: All the advisory agreements are based on the Federal Ministry Act. The facts about the contractors and the level of the contracts have been clearly revealed. Secondly, Counselling costs are in the international area. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Thirdly, In the case of real estate transactions of this scale, it is internationally customary and sensible and responsible to buy advice services. [[Abg. Mandak: But not at this price!]] Fourth: The sale of these housing companies has been particularly responsible by establishing a Commission and choosing a two-stage negotiation procedure, and this has resulted in an internationally experienced company. Fifth, you open a bottle This commission of awards was highly competent, for example, there was a lawyer, two university professors and other persons competent in this causa. Sixteenths: An objective evaluation system was chosen, with 60 percent of the quality assessment and 40 percent of the price. That certainly makes sense, because you have nothing of it when someone makes it cheaper and when the result is worse. Seventeenths: The inclusion of a real estate expert meant no inconsistency, but it was even good that one had someone immigrated in the real estate business. Eighth: All negotiating income exceeded the expert's costs in all cases. That is, there has been a positive result everywhere. [[Abg. Mandak: That would be even more beautiful if not so!]] But what is claimed in the minority reports? – It is said, for example, that there would have been a cost burden on the consultants, but no savings. There is a need to raise the objection that the costs for the consultants are to be compared to the result actually achieved, with the result achieved being compared with the expected result. Then we see that much better results have been achieved. [[Abg. Mandak: That's not true!]] It was also claimed that there was potential inconsistency among Commissioners – I have to say: a term that is very interesting at all – because it could be that, by taking part in the purchases, membership in the Commission would be potentially incompatible. In addition, it was even claimed that suppliers had imposed imagination prices. From all this you can only close one thing: either You do not want to privatize, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition, or you want to scandalize the privatisation process. Both are not a forward-looking policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13947	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e13965	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is a strange political culture in which a finance minister, who would be on the way to the indictment bank anywhere else in an EU Member State, is still sitting on the government bank. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Gahr: The chief prosecutor fungus!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It is already a problem that there is still in Austria – although only in small parts of the population, but in large parts of the government parties – the idea that it is only then, when one is sitting behind the castle and bars, that one is unbearable as a member of the government. That is not true, because one thing is forgotten: that there is a political responsibility long before criminal responsibility. That you do not understand, Minister of Finance, that would only be a reason to make this office available to someone who knows what the rule of law is, who knows what Parliamentary control is, who knows what cleanliness is, who knows what correctness is, and who knows in what way a finance minister has to deal with public funds, with taxpayers' money. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors subcommittee were at least able to ensure that their subject matter and their possibilities of investigation were so limited. I would have liked to ask the SPÖ and Green colleagues – but I think that in secret some of the government parties too – much more precisely, much deeper, and also asked questions about other interconnected complexes, but this also includes, of course, the corresponding parliamentary instruments, the rights and also the willingness of the government parties to let the National Council work in its control function. And the evil that I experience not only around the Court of Auditors, but also about other committees, are government members who, through their daily conduct and their refusal to reply, give us an incredible way to understand how little they think of this National Council. And the problem associated with it is that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, simply take it and say: Yes, we do, we let ourselves be degraded to pure recipients of clues for proper government behavior, because this is an “unsirious one. ” Now I ask you: Is Mr Mag. Grasser really a “yours ”? [[Call the SPÖ: A fool!]] Do you really stand for this union of private interests, from the business of friends, from the suspicion of tax evasion, from the suspicion of abuse of office, from the suspicion that there is a shift in public engagements, from the suspicion of acceptance of gifts and from many other things, each of which would be a reason to exclude the respective official from any public office, not only from membership in a federal government? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That is also the reason why, as a Member of Parliament, although we do not want to do so, and although we say again and again, we can control ourselves if we let ourselves if you leave us by the government parties, we always have to hope that at least the justice of the majority of governments can go unimpeded in their work. That is why, Minister of Finance – because this is still possible if prosecutors and if investigators do not look at it: Where does the government sit and what does it want?, but: What does the Criminal Code say and what does the Federal Constitution say? – there are times and again situations in which you are rightly getting nervous and suddenly getting up and saying: The prosecutor's supposed to be faster! Hush! A quick procedure! – a grass-huss procedure, so that one does not happen, namely the opening of the decisive account. [[Abg. Hornek: What about your account at the Schoellerbank, Mr. Pilz?]] It is important to say in this House: Yes, the account of the well-known and contentious “unity of the friends of the New Economy” is open, and that has already brought many surprises, but the crucial account is not there. The crucial account is the trust account that Karl-Heinz Grasser has personally set up to be public charity in a tax-saving manner. And this account, Minister of Finance, you won't be able to move it to anyone else – that's your account, that's your property, that's your money, that's what you took personally and put a notary in your hand and said: Be my trustee and put it on this account for me! – And on this account, two transfers of the “Vereins New Economy” have suddenly been made: one at €9500 and one at €5500. [[Abg. Hornek: What about your dubious account at the Schoellerbank? You'll never explain that!]] It is certain that: The funds of the Industrial Union should never have been in the personal account of the Minister of Finance! There has been no use in all the interventions, since all attempts by Cabinet members to influence officials – in the financial procuratorship and elsewhere – have benefited nothing. Your Mr Simhandl has complained to me about the unlawful intervention he has made for you in the financial procuratorship. I can tell you that the Vienna court has decided: The interlocutory order that Mr Simhandl has sought will be rejected today – you will also lose this procedure. I do not know what the main proceedings are, but you have not been able to influence the Austrian courts. A majority of governments continue to keep you the bar – or perhaps another “stangerl”; much more is that not anymore. [[Call the SPÖ: Until March!]] ==References====External links== ==References== ==References== Jörg Haider will once again not fall around your neck, but will know who he has to thank if he has to make much, much more decent place for a perhaps not overly clumsy or a not overly capable one, but at least for someone. And if you have contributed to this, Mr Finanzminister, then perhaps that was the most reasonable thing you have succeeded in recent years. That's just one thing we're gonna do. You must point out that you do not miss control. The accounts are opened, the payment flows are executed, and you will have to show your private bags to the public, whether you want or not. We are just ahead of this point, and you have two options: You can take your hat and at least partially withdraw from the political public, or you can give us the opportunity, by remaining in office, to explain it even more intensively. Nevertheless, for me, the Republic's interest is at the heart of the interest, and thus the interest of the taxpayers after Eurofighter, Voest closure, real estate closure in front of this Minister of Finance, in finally bringing you to safety. [[Abg. Hornek: Pilz chaos,...!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14118	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14137	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr. Pilz, you were only present once in the Standing Subcommittee and you tried to scandalize the homepage, which was not the subject of this subcommittee, and then, even with a lack of courage and need, your colleague Moser took place – after she had in-depth information about your housing matters – and they also called it a “blessed dowel” because you did not want to be referred to the place immediately. And I'm glad that someone like that... [[Abg. May. Kogler: Such a fool!]] I've been sitting next to it, I've heard it. I am glad that such a person cannot decide who here bears political responsibility and who does not. I'm very happy about that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am also glad that the voters were on the 7th. It will be decided by the head of state and not by Mr Pilz. I am also very happy about this, because you have no legitimacy, any political responsibility or anything to demand, and you have no right to be happy now, for who is on the 7th. We will be happy to see that, Mr Pilz. This report, as you know – you try to scandalize it again and again – is not about any private homepages, it is about the conduct of the Federal Ministry of Privatisation and Dispensation, about the sales preparations for the ÖIAG companies, and about the award of external consultants in connection with legal projects and public relations. However, it is not about execution – that is not the area of execution and not the matter of the federal private administration – if you want to talk about the homepage. That's the way it is! ==References====External links== ==References== We have examined things extensively by January, and even if the answers do not turn out as the opposition wishes, it is now the answers that are given – you have to ask correctly to get perhaps better answers – and in that respect everything you would like to hear about these things has been dissolved in the air. We also had enough opportunity to hear many comments here, namely Mr Heinzel, Mr Dr Michaelis, President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Plech, Mr Ramprecht, Mr Bogner and Mr Schramm, all of them have given detailed information and you could have learned a lot if you had asked the right questions. [[Abg. May. Kogler: It was Ramprecht who said: 2 billion! This is a non-expert!]] I know you don't like to hear it, but nothing left of your accusations, of the accusations that we discussed in this committee. Since you always want to focus on certain expenditure, so to speak, the SPÖ may also recall the expenditure incurred under Minister of Finance Edlinger. In 1998 alone, its representation expenditure was as high as that of the Federal Ministry of Finance in 2000, 2001 and 2002. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - I know you don't like to hear that. You like to hear away because these are things you don't want to hear. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No, but the record is old, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You will also hear this “sounding plate” over and over again, because all of this shows how you managed by the SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: It's broken!]] Again: Representation expenditure in the Ministry of Finance 2000, 2001, 2002 together as much as in 1998 alone under your Minister of Finance Edlinger. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Expenditure on public relations by the Federal Ministry of Finance was about the same in 2002 as in 1999. – So: What do you think of the SPÖ?- Oh, my God! They must measure with the same and not different measurements. And you must not forget what you used to do among your own finance ministers, because: If you sit in the glasshouse, don't throw stones! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another word about privatization scandalization, which you try from the SPÖ here. Here too, I remind you of what has been achieved in our time of government: We were able to reduce the debt of €4.3 billion in the years 2000 to 2003. You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, handed over €6.3 billion to us in debt at ÖIAG. – This debt was reduced by €4.3 billion and is now only €2 billion, due to the good and successful privatisation policy of the current government. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Aktiva Passiva Exchange! If you have no idea, don't talk about it!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I can remind you of some of your debacles: AMAG, DDSG, EURATOM – and all the other things you've broken and where you haven't moved away, but only built debts. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There you should keep the mirror in place, but at all events measure it to the same degree – and here you don't always talk about things that don't exist at all. Our privatisation policy was and will be successful – and will continue by us.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14296	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. Even selected volunteer time limit: 6 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14314	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor – even though she was politically active in Styria at the time; even there, newspapers report the following “littleness” will not be out of memory: There was an EU Presidency of half a year, and Austria had this presidency in 1998. So, Mrs Bleckmann: Compare apples with pears, you shouldn't do that again in plenary! But now to a much more critical point, to something that is really about: the moral image of a republic which unfortunately suffered very much under this government. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of ÖVP and the liberals.]] In our country today, we have the situation that Minister Grasser must be held by a German Chancellor and by a faithful EIA Group, a Minister of Finance, who has long exceeded all the limits of what would normally be enough in a democratic country to make his office available to him for reasons of grace and morality. [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman:Euroteam!]] Let us come to the project of a Subcommittee on the Court of Auditors under the disability of a majority group. Only what has become apparent in the last few days makes clear why the government groups in particular have refused to allow a survey by Mr Winkler and Mr Pfander and warriors of Lehman & Brothers, Frank Stronach, Siegfried Wolf and by Lorenz Fritz of the Industrial Union. Today we know why. – The survey was also rejected by Christoph Neumayer, the press spokesperson of the Industrial Association. You of ÖVP and FPÖ knew exactly why you refused: Because you didn't want it to be obvious that it wasn't just €175,000, that it wasn't just 2.4 million schilling, but that this amount is long ago located in the area of 4 million schilling! Today, after reporting the current “NEWS”, we know that this is already about over 5 million schilling. But let us again turn to those parts that concern the counseling commissions, since “profit ” was discussed here before. A few details from that. Let us take a look at what firms have been employed there at all! – That’s where we read in the documents: Lehman & Brothers – no unknowns in Austria. Were that not those analysts – you have been working on the issue of YLine by the government parties – which until April 2001 – today, on the basis of the opinion in the bankruptcy proceedings, it is clear that YLine has long been, more precisely: since December 2000, pleaded – recommended YLine shares Thornton “strongbuy” when he sold his shares well, and the same Lehman & Brothers, according to the report here, have received 10.2 million €?- Oh, my God! [[to Federal Minister Mag. Slide Grass]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But we also find here the Europa-Treuhand Ernst & Young as a multiple contractor, the same firm that has issued an unlimited confirmation note for the conclusion in the same company YLine at 31. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Schöls: Whoever sits in the glass house should not throw stones!]] These are the firms that have been employed here. And that's exactly the thing you didn't let us ask. Why not? – The answer is obvious: where you are searching in this area, a new tip of a kind of convenience republic will be revealed. I would like to ask you today at this point, Minister Grasser: Open the accounts of the “Vereines New Economy” because €352,000 – even if you dispute this sum; €283,000 has already admitted Mr. Lorenz Fritz – cannot have been spent on the homepage, cannot have been spent for a few food bills in the better restaurants. What was paid for with that? – Was it possible that when Mr. Bill Gates was there, he was not proud of the successful Minister of Finance, but that he had to be paid for it? ==References====External links== Is it necessary to take place on April 1, 2001? Is it perhaps a coincidence that the Minister stopped in Hawaii at the end of April until the beginning of May of the same year, where we asked and received an answer, it was a private trip? When the journalists called at the time, the friend of Mr Winkler, on Mr Winkler's phone, reported! Was that the trip? Was there any cost involved? And: What about Monaco and the other things? All of this has to be disclosed, because one thing is clear today: Justice has today confirmed that €9 900 and €5500 have been transferred to a private account, namely the trust account for the Social Fund. That makes it clear: The Federal Minister is at the end of a chain of payments, with a private account where the IV funds have landed. And that is hopefully enough reason in this country for you to look for a new candidate for this office, because the one who now clothes it could not sufficiently draw the careful separation between the content of the office and private life. [[towards ÖVP and the liberals]] I only blame you partially, Mr Mag. Grasser, and that is what I am saying at this point, because you have experienced a socialization under a head of state Haider, a party leader in which we still do not know: Who paid for the helicopters? Who paid the price? Who paid all this? [[In the meantime, call to the liberals.]] We do not know that until today, nor is there any information given. And the country of Carinthia has not yet been able to clarify how it was with the journeys to Arab countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New calls to the liberals.]] In this sense, the system is a “System Haider” to which you are inferior. In this sense, the current Minister of Finance has no fault, and I wish him for his further life, that he learn something else in another place. I think Magna would have been better there than Mr. Haider. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14406	Mr Pilz has made a point of correcting the matter. A maximum of 2 minutes of speaking time. – Mr Commissioner, you know the Rules of Procedure. They begin with the case-law to be corrected and face the right situation. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14427	Mr President. Mrs Bleckmann has said here that a colleague's abuse has come from my side. – That is not true, and I strongly reject it! I would point out that in the green club and under the greens it is completely unusual to use freedom of conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14454	Now, Mr. Federal Minister Mag has joined us. Grasser to speak. – Mr Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14473	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I tell you, pretty slowly I take it as a compliment, I feel almost honored and flattered that I am attack target number one of the united opposition. [[Abg. Mandak: It's not that great!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, everyone who understands the political world knows it, and Werner Amon has put it to the point for me today, saying: The government has a tax reform, and you have a problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Obviously you really have a problem, ladies and gentlemen, namely the current account of this federal government. Obviously, the successful policy of this federal government puts you in such a distress that now you do not hide back from thinking very deeply in the drawer, to fall under the belt line and attack and criminalize: How can we make a political het campaign? [[Abg. Parnigoni: Finally take a position on the report!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore point out once again your untenable accusations today. You simply lack any basis for your criticism. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Answers!]] I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen: I'm now taking this sporty. I won't make your attacks one millimeter. My office is perfectly correct, my office is exemplary, and at the end of the day personal integrity and truth will prevail. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: What kind of sport is that? Armchairs?]] Sports because it is a political discourse, Mr Kogler, and sporty because I believe that the population of each member of the government and the German government as a whole will measure the performance. And these achievements, ladies and gentlemen, can really be seen! If you are talking relatively much now, you already know, on the other hand, that you handed over €133 billion in debt to us in 1999, then you know that you have handed over €19.5 billion extra-budget debt to us, and then you know that the annual interest payments at that time amounted to €6.6 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! I went to Brussels as Minister of Finance in 2000, and the EcofiN Council, the Council of Finance Ministers, there told me: Your financial policy is totally unacceptable. Go back to Austria and make You're a bad financial policy! - So much to what you've handed over. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Two weeks ago, ladies and gentlemen – perhaps we can enjoy something together for a short time – Alfred Finz and I have succeeded for the first time in achieving a consistent financial policy that we have been traded under the top four stability programmes in Europe. Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Austria have been presented in Brussels as the best four in Europe's financial policy. This is our policy – a financial policy with a sense of mind, a policy with results that you have not achieved in 25 years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have four budgets to account for, twice a balanced budget, a zero deficit, for the first time for more than 30 years. The current item on the agenda is also about administrative reform, and if I now talk about financial policy, ladies and gentlemen, because I tried to explain to you in the Committee that we have saved more than €6 billion by means of very clear, consistent 70 administrative reform projects, which we, together with Alfred Finz, have carried out at the federal level. [[Abg. Mandak: The Administrative Reform Report!]] If we have managed to save more than €6 billion on the expenditure side, this is a very, very essential point for us to achieve a balanced budget twice this week and that we were able to make a balance over the year 2003 this week; a balance sheet, ladies and gentlemen, which shows that we did not make a 1.3 percent deficit, but also in 2003 we are below 1% deficit. These are the results that you have not achieved in 25 years of your financial policy. – We are proud of these achievements! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Think of our committee debates, ladies and gentlemen. We discussed ÖIAG, we discussed the capital market. I remember very well that we had to take over €6.3 billion in debt in the field of ÖIAG, and we have here made a consistent privatisation policy, precisely in the conviction: Private is better than the state. We know that industrial policy is in Austria's interest, industrial policy for headquarters in Austria, industrial policy for more employment in Austria and industrial policy, which we have used in such a way that we pay back debts that you have left us. We owe about €1.7 billion today. That is, in the ÖIAG we have already paid back more than €4.6 billion of the debt you left us. Ladies and gentlemen! We have been addressing this in the capital market – the Federal Chancellor has been addressing it today – since the 1. January 2003 is a performance that accounts for about 50 percent. 50 percent increase in our capital market since 2003, more than 60 percent since 2000! They left us a broken capital market. They have left us the situation that companies have a massive under-average capitalization, and that has been the point for us that we have achieved a turn in the hopeless situation – because we know how important equity for our companies, for more growth, for more employment of businesses. That was a concrete point in the subcommittee. It was important to me – and I do not think that the Members of this House have presented all the facts today – to answer all the questions you have asked there – I have taken many hours to answer all the questions raised on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Austrian National Council, and that has happened. None of your questions has been answered unanswered – with the exception of the current account of the Austrian Federal Government. They have accused us of consulting, ladies and gentlemen, the broad majority of Members have done so, and we have discussed urgent questions here on consulting orders. . We have entered New Zealand, and I have been able to present to you in the Committee that this special expertise we have acquired for this new country that we have entered into has been affected by this innovative policy, which we have implemented, but on the other hand, medium-term savings or proceeds amounting to €637 million, savings of €1263 million. That is, every euro we have used there was well-invested taxpayer's money. It has paid off several times, in many cases it has already paid off in the first year of the advisory service through greater savings that we could achieve. – In that respect, a good balance sheet, a good policy, we are on the right track. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I should therefore also like to say the following to the various accusations from my point of view: On the one hand, there is a successful federal government, a federal government that makes the necessary one that deepens into the work of law, a federal government that takes up problems and makes decisions that demonstrate competence and secures the future of this country. On the other hand, we have an opposition that says: No to the work in progress!, an opposition that says: No to the competition of ideas! – it is neither by Mr Gusenbauer nor by Mr Cap, nor by Mr Professor Van der Bellen has been presented only some alternative to this biggest tax reform of the history of the Second Republic today – but an opposition that says yes to party politics, yes to polemics, yes to a political hunt that it organizes. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am referring to this because I am talking about it, Mr Oellinger, because it was all Mr Pilz, who spoke about political culture. When talking about political culture, I say, of course you are free to go to the prosecutor's office at any time, according to the motto: [[Abg. Oils: You've gone!]] If our political arguments are no longer sufficient, if the political arm is not strong enough, then we will hold the policy in court, then we are the European champions in bringing advertisements to the prosecutor's office. That's not a problem for me at all. I only tell you that it would also be good for all of us at the same time – and this is my only request to you, after you have submitted five, six, seven, eight advertisements to the prosecutor's office, whether the Member of Parliament was Pilz, if the honourable Member was Matznetter, have been a Member of this House. [[Abg. Oil: Who? We?]] [[Abg. Oils: You!]] So I didn't bring an ad against myself to the prosecutor's office, and I didn't make an ad against you at the prosecutor's office. [[Abg. Oils: But against us!]] [[Abg. Oil: What?]] Dear Member of the Oellinger! If I met with the same instruments and Mr Matznetter gave me the floor to look at how you, Mr Matznetter, were working for YLine, and if I look at how you were working with your Euroteam firm, as you are supposed to be involved in the Euroteam's teaching offensive – something that is pending today – and if I look at how you were working with your office for Euroteam, if you are obviously to be involved, Mr Matznetter, in a gambling company called "joy & Fun", which is not supposed to take it exactly with the entertainment taxes, where you should have paid around €60 000, then I must tell you that this would give enough space for you to also bring advertisements to the public prosecutor's office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] I say quite clearly to you: I would never do that because it is not my political style, it is not my political culture. I am always at your disposal when it comes to dealing with the issue when it comes to bringing up a competition of ideas here in Parliament when we talk about who has the better financial policy, who has the better concepts when it comes to tax reform. That is what I am looking for and what I invite you to do: to capitulate not before political responsibility, when it comes to concepts of competition of ideas, but to say in the interests of competition and the best solutions in terms of content for Austria, we also devote ourselves to the subject matter, and to presenting alternatives. I invite you to do so, I hope we can find a constructive way back and leave this deep level of personal crime and attack behind us. Anyway, I'll tell you: I will not let myself down, we will continue this very successful path for Austria, for employment, for the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14703	Mr Matznetter spoke on an actual correction. 2 minutes speaking time. – Mr colleague, first mention the claim that you are correcting, and then oppose what you think is right.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14732	In his opinion, Federal Minister Grasser said that I was directly or indirectly involved in a company called Joy & Fun. Secondly, he claimed that I or the Euroteam company would have placed half-paged advertisements in favour of my firm. – Both statements are incorrect! I am neither indirectly nor economically involved in the company “Joy & Fun”; it was a loyalty order of a colleague. [[Abg. Rädler: Who paid for the ads?]] Point two: The ads were advertisements from the Austrian Federal Government, in which freelancers who at the time have been given the opportunity to hire apprentices from this Parliament have recruited that the other also do. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman]] And then, with the exception of my law firm, there was no tax advisor who employed apprentices. It was better times than today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14774	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes speaking time. – Mr Commissioner, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14793	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is remarkable when Mr Matznetter comes to the speaker's desk here, artificially excites himself, and then takes the word "sitting image" into his mouth. Perhaps he should think about “Euroteam” and “YLine” a little bit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The audit mission to the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors also concerned the privatisation of companies in ÖIAG, and stated in the explanatory statement the companies voestalpine AG and Böhler-Uddeholm. On this occasion I can also deal with it objectively. How did SPÖ chairman Gusenbauer notice so strikingly before the last election? There is no reason why the state should run an industrial business. Of course – therefore privatisation. More specifically to the Voest. The Voest share had a price value of €22 in March 2003. According to the Federal Government's mandate for full privatisation, the value of the shares increased to €37 by July 2003. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: And how much did we sell?]] In August and September 2003, however, this voest-privatization was used by SPÖ in the Upper Austrian country election campaign in a very populist and primitive way to create a mood against privatisation, although at this time the Voest was already privatized to two thirds by socialist German Chancellors and finance ministers and precisely with this privatisation actually began the success story of voestalpine. However, due to the negative campaign of the SPÖ in Upper Austria, the price value has fallen. The sales income then amounted to only €32.5 per share, which means a loss or loss of €30 million or 420 million schilling, which the SPÖ is solely responsible to the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] The SPÖ Upper Austria was more important than securing jobs. However, those who rely only on populism are in danger of quickly re-poking or losing the obviously gained weight of votes in government negotiations, if one obviously finds himself down too late from the high Ross. ==References== September 2003 there were no reports from SPÖ in Upper Austria to Voest, not even after in recent weeks it has been established that the Voest will invest €2 billion in Linz in the next few years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is the difference between voest privatisation and the remaining privatisation of Böhler-Uddeholm? Simple: The privatisation of Böhler-Uddeholm took place after the 28th century. ==References== This privatisation actually went over the stage very quietly and reasonablely, so that the actual value of the stock of € 48.5 could also be redeemed. Privatisations are not for self-interest, but for the reduction of debt in the ÖIAG that has been incurred over the last decades; Debts for which the taxpayer must ultimately stand straight, or – if we don't take them away – the token must pay. For example, the debt burden of ÖIAG in January 2000 was €6.2 billion. The privatisations reduced debt by €4.5 billion to below €1.7 billion. However, successful privatisations have only been common since January 2000. The privatizations previously ran rather after the example AMAG in Upper Austria. Before privatization – for a symbolic schilling, i.e. €0.07, the AMAG was sold – 87 million € or 1.2 billion schilling from the ÖIAG were quickly shot in, and when the AMAG was then privately run, it was already able to gain a profit of about €30 million in the second year. ==References====External links==* Official website February 2000, you come to the summation: Thank God in the sense of a reasonable deal with the money of taxpayers now Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, Minister of Finance Grasser and an ÖVP FPÖ government have the responsibility for our tax money.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14864	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14882	Mr President. Minister Grasser! Your sportiness in honor, but our problem is that by not responding to the money shifts between your club and your account, we do not think you are performing a sporty performance, but rather a highly immoral – tax evasion is not allowed to say – tax evasion action, because the gift tax is on! This is what experts say, and even the German experts, who have been used by Mr Finz once for an opinion, say that. They have said it right now that, in the case of this Friends-of-new-economic story and this Grasser Private Social Fund Account History, the gift tax would very well be due. – The only thing, and this, Mr Minister, has nothing to do with sportiness, which is now required, but it has to do with morality, seriousness and political correctness, and – and this is very important to me – with complying with laws that every taxpayer and taxpayer must adhere to. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] - That's the first thing. Secondly, The overall subject of the Committee's subcommittee was privatisation and the associated advisory agreements. My previous speaker drew on the example of Voest and put this September action as a successful privatisation here in space. Mr. Principal, remember that this has certainly been a flight forward, which has deeply rejected your party observer in Upper Austria, Mr. Landesführer Pühringer. This was most contrary to him, it was politically inconvenient that the great Voest sales debate took place in September. And why did this happen? – Minister Grasser, your “sports” in the Minerva project was the background. They wanted in themselves a transfer of Voest majority shares to the Magna Group of Frank Stronach, with which you were going through. had good relations, fine fading. This has then become public, and you have nothing left but to go to the stock exchange quickly in autumn so that this Magna thing does not make even higher waves. – To sell this here as a “successful privatization” really does not affect you – most of all, the Upper Austrians. Now on another aspect, also Linzer, which also concerns Upper Austria: the privatisation of state-owned housing companies. We have discussed this extensively in committee – and now here in plenary about an hour ago. Mr. Grasser, you have also put a certain contradiction in the room, and you claimed quite specifically in July 2003 in the RH Subcommittee that the decision to grant to Lehman & Brothers was on 27 July 2003. ==References== – Sorry, that was the decision to make the sale! – Your former employee, Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Ramprecht, has repeatedly given the best in the Committee, repeatedly made it clear that this was a different date that this was not the 21. September was – I have to correct myself! ==References====External links== September. There is background information that suggests that this decision is very likely to be related to instructions from your cabinet. – This would be another chapter on which we need to talk, because we had no opportunity in the subcommittee. I should also like to mention another contradiction that has been shown in the Committee: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Ramprecht, the “Chairman” of this entire sale or award campaign to Lehman & Brothers, has noted that you, Minister Grasser, have been directly informed by Dr. Traumüller about the outcome of the vote, who is to receive the award, and that this has been announced to you in writing. I should like to ask you, Mr Minister, to answer my question in writing: “With regard to the voting behaviour of the individual members of the Commission, I cannot make any concrete statements, since this is not known to me.” What's true now, Minister? Have you been informed in writing about the details, or have you not been informed? Then either Mr Ramprecht was wrong, or you, Mr Minister, made a wrong statement to me in reply to a question. That would be a few more details from this subcommittee, which show that the subject-matter of the investigation is far from fully exhausted and needs to be examined even more closely. And this also shows very well that your approach to privatisation was inaccurate in various cases, was based on false conditions and partly also under-executed. Mr Minister, it is not about sportiness, it is about serious politics, and it is about privatisation from which you and your friends benefit more or less, but it is not primarily the Republic, as you, Mr Minister, always state. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14958	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the Rules of Procedure. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e14982	Thank you, Mr President. – Mr Federal Minister, you claimed in your statements, not you, but the opposition always went to the prosecutor. I'm actually putting it right, Minister of State Grasser: You went to the prosecutor to seek a media trial against the green club for “infringing the suspicion of innocence” because you thought I would have said something at a press conference that would have affected your innocence. The criminal court before which a media crime is dealt has, in the first instance, found that there is no violation of the presumption of innocence...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15006	But this is already beyond the actual correction!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15021	You, Mr. Bundesminster Grasser, went to the judge, not us! In addition, you went to the commercial court in the Causa Pilz – when colleague Pilz addressed the accusation of the suspension – and also accused colleagues Pilz of “suspecting the violation of innocence” or of“worshipful renunciation”. – Mr Pilz has also been acquitted at first instance in this procedure. Mr Grasser, you have to ask yourself if you do not answer questions: What else should Members do to get the truth on track?- Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15058	This is a speech, Mr Oellinger. Get back to the word! The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15079	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The fact that there are several reports from the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee in this case is probably in the nature of the matter. You would not have been able to go along with our report – we did not expect it either – otherwise you would have to admit that you raised this Causa only for party political reasons. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If one listens to you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, then one really feels that you were in another subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. Mr Matznetter spoke in the committee – in the meantime he gave his speech and left the room. I also quote just one sentence, unlike Mr Herbe, who has just put the whole protocol on the Internet, available to anyone, although this Subcommittee is confidential. You should know that, too, Mr. Herb. I am actually very surprised that the Second President of the National Council has not expressed himself to break the Rules of Procedure, although the First President Dr. Andreas Kholsehr has found clear words to do so. [[Abg. Prince: A legitimate question!]] Mr Matznetter meant that Minister Grasser had caused damage to the Republic. – This is a matter of view, estimated Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition party. Now, after all the facts are on the table, it's clear to us that's not. Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser did no damage to the Republic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But if we are already talking about damage, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition parties, then I have to say that some SPÖ finance ministers who have done real damage to the Republic fall into my mind. They have given or sold companies that were worth hundreds of millions of schilling to a schilling. [[Abg. Prince: 0,07 €!]] Perhaps it would have been good if these ministers had had good advisers like Karl-Heinz Grasser. And if these consultants had been so expensive, they would have come to the Republic much cheaper than these generous gifts of your ministers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I also appreciate the Euroteam affair. There were real processes. There were real convictions. Mr Klima went to Argentina and looked for a job in Argentina. He'll have known why. If we're already talking about damage, ladies and gentlemen, I think one more thing. Especially as a Burgenlander I think of one, a former finance minister – you know that was the one with the piglets. He has caused billions of damage to the Bank Burgenland. So much it has cost us, namely 3.5 billion schilling, that Mr. Edlinger has not listened to banking supervision – we say once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gaál: This is unheard of!]] You should not forget this, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, when you speak of damage. But there is another damage that you have done, ladies and gentlemen, because by your slanders you have tried a minister...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15161	Mrs. Colleague! We do not use the word “defilement ” here! I'd ask you to change that.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15176	Because of your accusations, you have tried to finish a minister, according to the motto: Soss it, it's going to stay a little hanger. You first tried this with our Federal Chancellor, because you bit out your teeth. Now you try it with Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser, but I promise you, there will be nothing left under the line. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And now try with our Foreign Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner. We have all expected it for the simple reason that she is the only woman who has the chance to move into Hofburg because she is the only woman who has the chance to become the first President of the Federal Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And it's not too deep for you. They are not afraid of this lady's private life either. Stop scandalizing our people! [[Abg. May. Kogler: At least come to the end!]] You won't win anything with that, even if that's what your agency tells you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Believe me, the people outside make themselves a picture. Therefore, my appeal to you: Take a new agency and return to work!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15234	The next speaker is Mr Keck. Desirable time: 3 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15252	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! High house! With the report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and in particular the minority report by my group, the SPÖ, this House could prove that it is doing valuable work and that, in addition to the right, it is also very likely to have the power to find out the truth and some irregularities. [[Abg. Hornek: The SPÖ truth!]] If that were not the case, then we would not have the possibility of the control committees, ladies and gentlemen, we would have to be satisfied with what a Mr Winkler or anyone else is up to us about any sponsored homepage, and transparency would really be downgraded at “side-by-side” level soon. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that Parliament has such rights. I would have rather been able to use our opportunities in the subcommittee even more intensively and persistently, but unfortunately this black-blue has often prevented or even torpeded. [[Abg. Hornek: You were never there!]] I am thinking, for example, of how many people and, above all, how often we wanted to load so many gentlemen. We have experienced little black and blue welcome, because all our requests have been rejected. [[Abg. Hornek: That is wrong!]] Their parties have thus made offensive refusal of discussion. Of course, we all know who and above all why you make the wall here: They only want to protect the Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: He was there twice!]] From your point of view, but I would like to say one thing to the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: Remember, draw sons, even if they are only loaned, also show up as good marketing of the often as shot in their own knees. Ladies and gentlemen! A subject of this control committee was also the economic policy-making lack of meaningful sales from the ÖIAG. There's been a lot of talk about it. Here, too, a lot of crazy questions were taken up by your side, so that the really burning and important questions could not be dealt with enough or were also allowed to be dealt with. [[Abg. Hornek: Why didn't you put it?]] What has actually happened in the back rooms of the Ministry of Finance or ÖIAG is still unexplained. I can only hope that your unwillingness to clarify is not an indication of possible later detections. Since you are not interested in the truth, this issue will certainly take us a long time. Ladies and gentlemen! In this policy of cover-up, walling, disputing and beautiful speech, the population will certainly no longer play with it. You will initiate your own election with this policy. Mr Finanzminister! They have the responsibility to do so, because of the many affairs that we had to deal with in the Court of Auditors subcommittee. That is why, Minister of Finance, for the first time you behave responsibly and forward-lookingly in your time of government, you come before the prosecutor and step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15343	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15362	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! In June 2003, Mr. Grasser or the Association “New Economy” addressed the relevant financial offices with a request for information. So they themselves were the first to have resolved this tax-law question. This is what I see here. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Who?]] – The Minister of Finance and the Association. Two requests for information. At the same time, the Minister of Finance totally dismissed the case, in writing, with a note of record. The tax section has been notified of this note. It was clear from this point of view of the tax section that I alone am entitled to do so. On the same day I contacted the President of the Finanzlandesdirektion Wien, informed him that I was authorised to do so, the staffing situation rose with him because it was the beginning of the summer, and agreed with him: I do not want an interim report from this presentation, I do not want to be invited to any discussions here. The final result must be presented to me without any preliminary report, and then I will have the opportunity to comment on how to proceed or whether it can be delivered immediately. He's full of it. The two competent financial offices, on the one hand the Financial Office for Fees and Taxation, on the other hand the Financial Office for the 4th, 5th and 10th. District, have contacted experts. This is provided for in our financial management; there is the establishment of the department where experts are available to the financial offices for each tax area. You can also – and this has happened in this case, which is completely regular – rely on experts from the ministry to consult yourself in this case. These two requests for information were examined on the following tax bases: according to the gift tax law, according to corporate tax, turnover tax and income tax. In the gift tax it was explicitly stated that there is no giving intention, and that is the essential, the Animus donandi, the intention to give someone a gift to enrich someone. According to the Statutes, a grant was possible and explicitly provided for. If the financial office had deviated from this intention, we would have had a break in the whole association tax. We would have destroyed the financial basis for all cultural associations, for the Animal Protection Association and for all other associations, because for these associations there are repeated such constitutional grants. An example so you can see this: A disaster victim shall receive a grant from an association which has undertaken to support victims of disasters financially, as provided for in the Statutes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] If that were, as you always say, taxable, then the disaster victim would have to pay a gift tax. This is an abstract assumption that this would be justified in this case. This would have been a break from the previous legal practice. Since you say again and again that there is no expert who has shared the opinion of the financial offices, I refer to the APA of 11. July 2003: Professor Michael Lang, well-known as Professor of Tax Law at the University of Economics in Vienna, endorses the opinion of the Financial Offices. I can show you an opinion by Ernst Young, who is also of this opinion. There are three more opinions from professors who share this view. [[Abg. Oillinger: Who is Ernst Young?]] Ernst & Young. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Income tax: Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain to you once again the difference. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs:... the difference between the statements!]] This homepage is about the tax assessment: Is the homepage an advantage of a service relationship? – This question has been raised. It is irrelevant here whether this is paid directly by the service provider or from a third side like here by the association. The Finance Office has clearly stated that the homepage does not serve the person Karl-Heinz Grasser as a private person, but serves the Minister of Finance as a politician in his role. [[Abg. Mandak: As a disaster victim?]] Therefore, now a comparison: If any The service provider gives his staff a motor vehicle and says that he can only use it for service purposes, then there is no tax to pay, because he only uses it for the service purposes. However, if he can also use it for private purposes, then a tax must be paid. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Only when he's in the investigation committee! Then the opposite is true again!]] That is the same question, and after which the tax-law side was examined. But this has nothing to do with enforcement issues and information rights, that is only a tax-related question where the function... [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Is the Minister of Finance the Minister of Industry? That's probably a joke!]] The club has created the homepage. This has been the tax assessment of the financial office that the association has posted a homepage here and that this is to be assessed as a grant from a service provider. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Do you even know what you said now?]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: It's getting better and better!]] [[Abg. Oils:... already a disaster victim!]] Yes, that's the income tax situation you have to judge. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] The corporate tax was therefore not to be paid because no agreement was reached in respect of a return. Therefore, there was no question of turnover tax law either. It has therefore been denied tax liability on all these issues. It has been a completely proper procedure. There has been no intervention with an instruction, every financial office has made this notice of itself. I reject any accusation in public that the procedure would have been illegal here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15519	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. The watch is gladly set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15538	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Unfortunately, one has now seen again in this opinion of the Secretary of State, that you do not want to hear the truth if it does not fit into your mind and does not fit into your concept at all. They are not even willing to give him attention for two minutes and then to judge it instead of constantly rejecting it, to wipe away and say: [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Oh yeah! We were really attentive!]] We don't care because that doesn't fit into our picture, and it doesn't fit into the concept we have. [[Abg. May. Kogler: To be read literally in the minutes!]] A problem on the part of the opposition – and especially from the SPÖ, I must say that – is also your disturbed relationship to the question of control. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Control means providing information and information, but it does not achieve a specified political objective in this way. But that's your understanding of control. [[Abg. Dobnigg: We do not defend ourselves against control!]] We have experienced this in the Subcommittee, we have experienced it in many ways in recent months. We have no problem at all with participating in the monitoring work in this committee, and we have already done so in many such subcommittees. However, it is not for you to do information work and obtain information in order to finally get an objective picture of the facts, but for you it is also this sub-committee and, in particular, only a pre-defined objective. It has already been mentioned today that you have set yourself this goal and that you have also had advisers who have given you this goal, namely the goal, which is to adapt to a successful finance minister, to make public bad and ultimately to fall. That was the objective that was set out, and that was the reason why you asked for this audit assignment for the Subcommittee, otherwise nothing at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also evident – as I mentioned earlier, and that was also the work in the Subcommittee, which was the work here in the House in many responses to questions – that you simply ignore information that you did not agree with, that you reinterpret it, doubt it or ignore it at all. That was the picture we got in the subcommittee, which unfortunately shows itself here again and again. The same procedure has occurred in the loading of various information persons. We have experienced it all the time: If the persons you had previously asked for and then we had agreed to be present could be questioned and consulted by us, then the interest of the opposition was suddenly not so great. There was only the interest to demand and say: Those who are here today are not really interested in us, but many other people we want to hear now. – In the end, however, one cannot do any information work, and I think that will also inform you. It is only a shame that in this process we ultimately suffer all the damage. The damage to this House, and the damage to the citizens, is ultimately also due to the evaluation of objective control and genuine control work, by making inflationary inquiries, making mistrust requests, and simply extracting from subcommittees, as we have already experienced, because what you want is not what you want. That is what these control bodies are valued for, and this will in future make control work in the eyes of many citizens no longer seem necessary and meaningful, but only as a further means for political purposes. In this case, it is a pity for these control possibilities and for this control work. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15629	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. The watch is gladly set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15650	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe just a very brief comment to my previous speaker: We are concerned with getting real answers and asking non-prepared questions in the Committee of Inquiry, for which time is too short, so that our questions are not adequately answered. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think, however, that it has already been presented today, as some of this has been done in the subcommittee. I would like to say briefly that the Minister of Finance has once again said very proudly in reply to the question: More private, less state! That is the slogan, and it is when one understands that when selling the 62 000 federal apartments, it is very clear what you understand by this term who the loser and who is the winner of this view. Privately, in your section, there is a disadvantage for those who are willing to buy and hire, while at the same time favouring private investors. It has also confirmed to the Court that you have not complied with the requirement to sell the apartments first to tenants. The Court of Auditors report states: The Federal Ministry of Finance has failed to estimate the effort, the expected success and the period of the project. There are now two questions to be answered. Is this a diletantic process, and did you really appreciate this sale? Or were the tenants deliberately equipped with barriers to sell the BUWOG apartments to investors? More private, less state – that also means: Outsourcing of accommodation-specific responsibility to private service providers, in this case to Lehman & Brothers. They have received a very high salary, and how the order went before has been discussed in detail. But what I'm interested in is: What was actually evaluated? What did they do in their work? The fact is that you have missed out on the call for sale, that apartments are no longer non-profit and that a procedure is already under way here. Now we know and now it has been confirmed that the community is there and that it is no longer private builders. That is how this call for tender should have taken place. The second question that arises is: How did the tendering take place? – In turn, there was a very intransparent procedure. Until now, it is not known who the bidders are, according to which criteria is awarded and why only selected bidders experience the conditions of sale. There are still a number of questions to be resolved here, and I ask you, Minister of State, to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15696	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. The watch is gladly set to 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15714	Mr President. Expensive government members on the government bank! I am already inclined to say, on the basis of what the Secretary of State has said before, that victims of disasters are very much appreciated. I would like to point out here that the work of the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is in any case closely studied, and I would like to doubt that all these protocols and also the minority report of our group have been read. This is because, for the time being, for the time being, the official understanding and the moral image of this black and blue government are opening up, and especially the Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser, who then stands up here and says: He feels flattered and honoured that he is the main person of these accusations. The government parties sit here and have made this motto their own: Cover, cover, hide, hide, and control is prevented by its majority. – This is your policy, and you should definitely justify that before the Austrian population! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister! They waste money in millions, hide your party financing, for example, in the form of employment loans with your black and blue field organizations and distribute top salaries to these temporary workers in astronomical heights. They have to answer for 330 000 unemployed people's assets, they can, among other things, be sponsored by the Industrial Association and they face millions of tax gifts, you feel honoured, and the Federal Chancellor stands here and speaks in untrue praises of the achievements of this Federal Government. If you look at the protocols of the Subcommittee, you get a picture, like that one here on the “Austrian community newspaper”, which is pictured by a man who throws money from means of taxation. [[The speaker rejected the corresponding magazine at the front of the speaker's desk.]] This could also be the Minister of Finance; the face is hidden. But as a headline, the words “corruption ” and “prevention ” are written here. The suspicion has already been expressed today that corruption and the economy of friends are very close, even in this case the Federal Government. [[The magazine leaned to the speaker's desk is slipping.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Now she's about to fall down!]] [[The speaker makes the magazine right.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Little stand firm!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A form of prevention against the concealment of taxpayers would be the proceeds of Mr Finanzminister. But just as you already celebrated it for the time being today, that was once again mutilated with your majority. But you will have to justify this before your voters! After all, it does not help you to exhibit persils here, pipe through the forest like someone who actually has something to cover up, and to do against better knowledge as if there had been nothing. Ladies and gentlemen! How you govern and act has system. You exercise your majority right in such a way that any kind of parliamentary control is deliberately made impossible. Instead of revealing, it's called cover-up. But even if you still believe so much that you will face this bill, ladies and gentlemen: More and more voters She has long looked through and turned away from black and blue with greys. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15788	I call Mr Hannes Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15807	Mr President. Mr Federal Minister and Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I have to predict that I was only present in this subcommittee several times. I have, however, been given the impression that it is certainly necessary to discuss certain changes in minority rights, because it cannot be the case that the procedure is essentially determined by the majority. For this is not really worthy of a subcommittee that has been given a task. This is a task that now has to develop independently of the Causa. Secondly, I would like to replicate the debate on tax reform, which is because it shows how little general understanding is available here. For example, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer strongly points out that 2 550 000 Austrians are not taxable, which is 45 percent. This is a very wrong approach! One has to wonder why, despite employment, 2 550 000 people do not have an income that leads to a tax. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Because we raised the border!]] In other words, we really need to have an income distribution discussion, but not such a forward-looking tax discussion! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Gusenbauer wanted 15 000, we did 15 700!]] I shall now come to another point. [[Abg. May. Molterer: SPÖ request!]] Yes, if there is something as a task of politics, then it is the attention of the res publica and not just a distribution that benefits only a few and in which most go out empty. This is not a policy, it is a strengthening of tendencies, and politics has the task of countering it – in order to express it quite clearly! The same is true of privatisation and other measures. It starts with a total revolution of the ÖIAG, in order to finally carry out privatisation in the way one wants, instead of considering what it means to give out future design possibilities! It would be important not to deduce from a core shareholder role here, but to play the issue of core shareholder plus stock exchange in such a way that this becomes an important part of the Austrian economy. [[Abg. May. Molterer: To have state influence! Party influence! The Party Secretariat!]] But what is the truth? – Since the end of the war, the ÖVP has never dealt with the question of the industry and this industrial group, as far as the states are concerned, but has led an ideological power struggle, with the help of the liberals now making it possible to sell out altogether. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And you're coming. They have always considered the national lights to be just a kind of temporary state that has some time ended. So it has begun, and in this legislative period the end is supposed to be put to the end. In reality, with the introduction of this sale for the future of the Austrian industrial landscape, for the future of the Austrians you have done a great deal, and irrevocably rejected! If you look at the example Mannesan, you can see how fast flagships can sink. A flagship such as Mannesmann has been disbanded over Vodafone until only one remains, namely telecommunications, in order to create an oligopolis in this area. The rest – and that is, please, the decisive – is to be seen as ruin. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The success story of the Voest has begun the privatisation!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is also no way to look away from a committee when it comes to asking the question – and I have asked it – what the ÖIAG concept looks like. There was no answer to that because it was called: We just have to sell out the order!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15914	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15935	High house! Mr. Federal Chancellor Schüssel spoke to us this morning and said: There is a successful privatisation policy. Our allegations were at the time that there were sluggish prizes and that the time was also miselected. Unfortunately, our fears of reality have even been surpassed. I read before – for example, Böhler-Uddeholm – which was said two months ago: Chancellor's bowl: This is a privatisation that went over the stage without any side noise. After all, a Supervisory Board, Veit Sale, had to resign. Minister for Finance Grasser said: There is a dream privatisation. Bartenstein spoke of “parade example for successful privatisation. ” And the nail has hit the head of my colleague, who unfortunately is not here today, who said: The date was golden. What is the balance of damage, ladies and gentlemen? If you look at the stock market two months later, you have to note that only €33 million was not realized in Böhler's privatisation. That's the damage balance alone from Böhler-Uddeholm! That's an incredible sum. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Bank Austria!]] [[Abg. Großruck: You can't simply start from the development of stock prices after privatisation!]] – Mr Colleague! Look Once you turn on the ATX, you will see that this also applies to the rest that is not privatized. Look You really do this exactly before you give such unqualified statements of yourself! – If one also counts the unrealised dividends of € 6.5 million, then the € 40 million one has left alone in the Böhler privatisation. If you do the same game with the voestalpine, where you can add €10 million and then still €10 million with the VA-Tech, where the Kovats share has now fallen very much and therefore the core shareholder structure is no longer given, and the voestalpine is estimated to be €25 million loss, then you will get €70 million of privatisation damage within a few months. That's a billion schillings anyway! Who are the beneficiaries of this deceiving? – These are the managers, Raidl and Co, because they have option contracts, and these options have already drawn them and realized the price gain. However, it is also institutional foreign investors and investment banks. The investment banks have estimated € 106 million for the privatisation of six companies, which is 1.5 billion schilling. So these are the true beneficiaries. And who are the losers? – All Austrians suffered a damage of €70 million due to these requirements by Minister of Finance Grasser. This corresponds to the equivalent of 20,000 childcare places or 400 rowing houses. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the policy of Schüssel, Grasser and Co, which must bear political responsibility for this privatisation disaster. You operate a policy of wear and tear, you operate client policy and you damage Austria. Her performance expresses bundled economic incompetence, Minister. Pull the consequences!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e15988	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16009	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That the Minister of Finance would be washed in the final report of the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee, we have already assumed, we have adopted it firmly. But the fact that a person is issued immediately does not shed a good light on the government fractions. That's not good. When I think about the superiority of the Federal Minister for Finance's criticism of the Court of Auditors, I must say that is really embarrassing. For example, the Minister of Finance said: I would have expected the Court of Auditors to praise me. Such statements provoke and express a disdain of the institution's Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It is really adventurous what the Court of Auditors has done in this regard, for example in the award of the much quoted consultative orders. Mr. Federal Minister, you really did what you wanted. And you have simply gone beyond all legal provisions, such as the selection of a staff advisor for the ÖIAG, which has already been addressed today. That's just an example. And how did the story go about? The contract was awarded to the company Zehnder Österreich, although the offer was 30 percent more expensive than the next one. By chance, the owner of the husband is the head of the office of President Prinzhorn and, of course, a close friend of yours, Mr. Finanzminister. What do you call such a thing, ladies and gentlemen, dearest of all? – This is a classic case of friendly business. In any other country, ladies and gentlemen, such a thing would not be possible. Such a behavior would be an inevitable reason for withdrawal. They have also gone beyond the anti-privileged law, that is, the stencil regulation, otherwise there would be no such contracts as are still common at the ÖIAG today. Let me address another point relating to the privatisations. Although the sale of Austrian tobacco has been a little longer, I think that the sale of this parade company, this flagship of the Austrian industry, is an example of how privatisation should not go through the stage. The proceeds achieved at the time were relatively small. At that time, the ÖIAG has been able to lubricate about 10 billion schilling. Today this parade company works profitably, and the only winner of this deal is the current owner, namely the English group. At the same time, we hear that restructuring measures are being implemented and that around 100 people are already too much in the company. This is the result of this bravorous privatisation. That is why we have acted against it, but unfortunately we have no longer been able to influence it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is not a forward-looking economic policy, it is really a classic sluggishing, which is a grant of public property to private individuals. But people outside note that God is grateful – we have already heard this today – and they will soon be given the opportunity to present the invoice to you. At present, the AK elections are running. ==References====External links== March will be the day of billing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16049	The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16069	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Before: Mr Großruck! I'm glad you're worried about the sympathy values of our chairman, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer. I see this as a compliment for his far-sighted view and his policy together with the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The previous remarks have shown one thing: This government is not too expensive, especially if the funds are going where the government is expecting an advantage. All of this takes place, as it were, under the leadership of the Minister for Finance. Ladies and gentlemen! How to imagine a Minister of Finance at national level? – According to my ideal idea, this should be a responsible person who pays attention to the tasks of the state and political correctness, especially in his own sphere of responsibility, i.e. the accountants of the nation. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That would be too little for me!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Edlinger wasn't an accountant!]] Minister of Finance Grasser is the exact opposite. I am not aware of a Minister of Finance who, in such a short time, has only spent nearly so much on consulting and PR. One more reminder: more than €26 million since 2000 only for advice and PR. Despite the millions of consultants and friends, the successes remain. Only the hole in the state bag is getting bigger and bigger. I am also not aware of a Minister of Finance, in which the contradictions of his personal financial policy would be considered in this way. Strange club structures, a homepage for an amount for which you can make ten or more. I do not know a politician who obviously does not touch the legitimate criticism of such expenditure. In Germany, the head of the Labour Authority was dropped in the short term because of an advisory contract, which has the dimension of drinking money compared to the advisory contracts of Grassers. If the Minister of Finance already takes such a position on public property: To spend taxpayers with both hands and sell them cheaply, one would hope that the government or the head of government will intervene in a corrective manner. But nothing of it! This form of policy has become a system, a method in this government. Control is considered to be a nuisance and a nuisance, and the Parliament is significantly evaded as a theatre. In line with this attitude, the other ministers also act. Look at some parliamentary answers! The legitimate need for control of the opposition parties shall be answered in a superficial and dissuasive manner. Ladies and gentlemen! This shake-off of responsibility and this driving over the concerns of the opposition is what scares me as a Democrat. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister of Finance Grasser is the pioneer of this development. However, the personal refreshment still comes with him. I therefore call on the Democrats in ÖVP and FPÖ to put an end to this Minister for Finance. Austria has the best...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16129	Please, just his working time! That's clear! [[General cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Now the President has already saved a Member for the second time!]] Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16167	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I would have liked to welcome you today as “tax-protection twins. ” But I am unfortunately late because the Minister of Finance has gone back to training, he sees the whole thing sportily. They have explained as well as it is possible that no taxes are paid for here. You know what would really interest me is the following: In the Subcommittee, the Minister of Finance has explained to us that this ominous homepage is purely private and a purely private association does so. You, Mr State Secretary, have answered that this homepage fulfils service purposes, it represents the policy of the Minister and serves Grasser as Minister of Finance and not as a private person. What's right now? – Is that private now, or is that his service home page? The colleagues from the government parties have constantly talked about the fact that we are holding a Grasser-Jagd. I don't quite understand. If someone has opened this hunt, it was the Minister of Finance himself. From this place on the government bank, he has explained to us in public discussion that this homepage, which is about to be spoken of, is not paid by him, not by taxpayers, but purely private, by private sponsors. That's why we asked: Who's from, please? And now we learn every week how much has actually been paid. I'd say this was a classic shot in the knee, ladies and gentlemen, when he made himself here and said: It's all about sponsors. Why does he not make himself today and tell us quite clearly: The industrial union has paid so much! This has happened to this money, and it is properly taxed! - Then no one talks about it anymore and everything is done. A Second Still, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen – unfortunately we have too little time –: In the two years that we have looked at, Mr. Finanzminister spent €26 million only for advice and PR. 26 million €! Do you know how much budget a middle community has available, such as my municipality of Schwerberg? – 8 million! So 26 million are four annual budgets. But from my annual budget, 5 500 people are provided. In any case, we no longer know how the communities are to continue. One last thing. The Minister of Finance has praised the communities in such a way that they were so economical that he could achieve his budget objectives. X-times have been said today, 133 billion euros have been taken over – by you, too, Mrs. Lentsch. [[Abg. Lentsch: I didn't talk about this topic at all!]] I think you have said that the Minister of Finance is sure. Do you know how much debt the state of Austria had at the end of 2002? – Not 133 billion €, not less, but 145 billion €! So the debt has become more and no less! With this fairy tale that the others make the debt, you can finally stop! One last thing to conclude: All the people responsible for the €133 billion debt are still sitting on the government bank today by the ÖVP. As a result, debt is becoming more and more.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16205	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The watch is gladly set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16223	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On one occasion, apart from the fact that I think it is a bit unfortunate that, on a point that is really primarily – apologising, Mr State Secretary – the Minister, the Minister in his personal or also in his professionally motivated tax side – and that is what it is about – the Minister takes his package and goes and leaves the State Secretary in the rain, so to speak, I must say that the clean way is not. But let's get to the point again. What was said? – One point was, Minister Grasser explains, we are going completely new ways in the administration. We do services, we no longer organise the services over the office, but we store them out. And these services of private consultants are excellent. Example one: Staff counseling. I do not need to go to Carinthia and see how there have been directors, district leaders in so-called objectiveation procedures with external personnel consultants, until then always a freeman has come out, sometimes also a social democrat in Carinthia and rather rarely someone from the ÖVP. This is different from the federal state to the federal state, but Carinthia is prototypical for this type of personnel consulting. But if I stay in the field of ministries, I notice: What about the staff advice for the appointment of Director-General for the Pension Insurance Institute? Did we not have to know in Parliament that Mr Gaugg is therefore the best qualified person, because he could best interpret the colour boards that the staff advisor presented to him or, so to speak, he referred to certain colors most clearly? That was the ID, he's the best qualified one! And we can all remember what happened to this best-qualified and then appointed Director-General in succession. No one can do anything for it: The staff advisor can't do anything about it, even those who have led staff advice. And now we are coming to your area, Mr State Secretary, which you have to hold for the Minister. A staff consultancy for the AWS – Austria Economic Service has been commissioned. Of course, one has already known or realized that this could become a political order again. That's how it was. But to get it kind of caught, you're going to have a personal consultation. And the one who does what she is called is cashing out of tax money, only because the politicians behind it are too cowardly to assume political responsibility for ordering Mr. Percival Pachta-Rayhofen. He'll do it, too. But it turns out within a very short time, Mr. Percival Pagta-Rayhofen cannot have been, which is not suitable as the managing director of the AWS. The contract is dissolved. And what's the ministry doing? – One takes a new staff advisor, so that someone who is already clear from the outset is ordered for political reasons, there are political reasons that lead to his appointment. But there is a staff consulting company in between, and the staff consulting firm is also holding its hands. And the responsibility, whether it's good or bad with the new one, does not have staff advice, nor does the State Secretary or any other political authority. Ladies and gentlemen! No one has the responsibility, but the costs are borne by taxpayers. - We've heard the sums before. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Example two: KPMG has already been mentioned – advice on the sale of a company, namely the Austrian Federal Republic. We here in Parliament – you from the government parties, because I did not believe this anyway – have been declared that the sales proceeds amount to €24 million. We were happy. – They were wonderfully satisfied, although a year earlier the Minister of Finance and others from ÖVP and FPÖ lines had said that they would break the ÖBV loosely. It has then become 24 million – apparently! Part of the sales agreement was, one million the buyer receives. Also an interesting purchase contract in which the buyer not only produces 24 million, but receives one million! The second essential part of the purchase agreement was: The purchase price will not be due immediately – it only paid a little over one million – but only in 2006/2007, i.e. an hourly purchase price. That would actually be interesting off. If you do that, then the one million will be deducted from the 24 that the buyer receives – in a purchase contract that the Republic concludes! – and adjusted the purchase price for the time being, then 20 million remain for the Republic. - A good sale? And what does KPMG get? – 788,000 €! [[Abg. May. Kogler: World record!]] This accounts for almost 5 percent of the sales price of 20 million! The Minister explains to us that one-and-a-half percent for consulting companies are common in such transactions. 1 to 1.5 percent, but not 4 percent, not even 3 percent – and not even 5 percent! And for that, do you give the Persilschein, ladies and gentlemen? What are you actually giving the Persilschein for? How far is your patience with this Minister of Finance and with the conditions in this Republic, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Third point: We have to do with the same throughout the Causa Grasser again and again, that is to say, the confusion, which is both private and political. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to remind you once again of what the Minister of Finance has said here in Parliament: ==References== In June 2003, the Minister of Finance declared: “The last question, Question 15, concerns” – and now it comes, be careful! – “My personal” and private “Homepage.” – The Minister of Finance has not declared in Parliament that he has nothing to do with it, but he has said that this is his personal and private homepage. Today, the Secretary of State says, we do not do the thing as we wish, either professionally or privately, but it is taxable to assign it professionally. – The Minister of Finance explains that it is his personal and private homepage, and then it goes on to say: “Of course, no single euro and no single cent of my private home page is financed with tax money.” – That was not actually the question, but whether it pays tax money, but it is not financed by tax funds. Then what is it financed from, its homepage? What are the funds that flow in there, Mr. State Secretary? – Now we are in the strange phenomenon, as we judge what is going on in money, whether it comes from the Industrial Union or from the Magna company. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you one thing: We had strong debates here on the subject of Eurofighter, but the suspicion expressed by us of a link between the favour of Eurofighter by the Minister of Finance and the actual purchase and all his attitudes to it finds his equivalent in a donation that Magna has placed on an account that Mr Grasser de facto calls his personal, we would not have thought so! €40 000 is worth the financial minister of this Republic of Magna for directing everything in the Causa Eurofighter. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is enough evidence that there is still a lot of information work waiting for us here and that the Minister of Finance cannot distinguish his personal and public interests from one another, so he is not appropriate to carry out this office.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16287	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. We shall vote on the request of the Committee of the Regions, the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in accordance with § 32e para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure in 356 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to express their approval of this proposal for a sign. – The notice is decided by majority. The next item is the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of the report itself, 356 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – I note that 356 of the supplements are taken by majority vote. That is what we have done on this item on the agenda. 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (194, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol amending the Convention on the establishment of a European Police Office (EUROPOL Convention) and the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities for EUROPOL, the Members of the Institutions, the Deputy Directors and the Staff of EUROPOL (354 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16336	We're coming to 3. Agenda item. The first speech is given to me by Mr Ing. It's a chapel. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16357	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The present EUROPOL Convention will complete the provisions of the Treaty on European Union relating to EUROPOL. It will enable EUROPOL to form joint investigative groups, which will then be operationally active in the individual countries, both independently and together with the forces of each Member State, and can actively combat crime. However, this investigation group also has the right to request the initiation of criminal investigations in the Member States concerned. – These are both the right and, above all, important steps to counter the new forms of crime. The basic tasks of this investigation group within EUROPOL are the procurement of information on the one hand and its analysis on the other. and processing on the other side. In this way, especially organised crime can be effectively and effectively addressed. Furthermore, this Convention also lays down the liability issue for damages caused by operational measures of this investigation group. The Member State in which trade is to be effected shall be liable for damages. Finally, the provisions on privileges and immunities for EUROPOL officials, now existing in principle, are amended in such a way that they are repealed in the course of official operations of the current investigation groups. I think it is also important to mention that EUROPOL officials will, of course, be subject to the national legislation of the Member State of employment in their official activities. As a whole, this protocol represents the consistent continuation of the 1995 path of a common European police unit. This is also important if we are to meet the increasingly complex forms of crime. In order to combat and prosecute crime in Europe effectively, a Europe-wide police unit is also necessary. This agreement will create an operational unit which will bring more security to the people of Europe, especially with regard to the enlargement of our Community. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It will now be possible to combat organised crime, cross-border gangs, trafficking in human beings and drug crime. It will again contribute to the security and stability of our Europe – a contribution to the security of all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16422	Next, Mr Parnigoni. Same speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16440	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Three comments on this amendment: I believe that the cooperation of the European investigative authorities within the framework of EUROPOL is a particularly useful and important measure to combat organised crime. It is useful here in all areas to extend the powers of investigation and also to use joint investigation groups. There will be a consensus there, and the Social Democrats will agree to this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! However, we assume that parliamentary control is guaranteed in the national parliaments. I hope that we can agree that for Parliament, for example, the activity of EUROPOL in Austria is clearly presented in the form of an information in the next security report. I would also suggest that the Security Report should not only be completed in the Committee, but that it should come back to the plenary agenda so that it can be discussed in detail and discussed in a public context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second comment: On the part of the Social Democrats, there has been a call for more police forces to be used in peacekeeping and peacekeeping measures for many years. There is a SPÖ basic paper entitled “For Human Police Work”, which we presented a few years ago, in which we presented this report. This is why Austria has a pioneering role in the training of crisis intervention forces. The CEPOL, the European Police Academy, was or is still an Austrian training director. I am therefore glad that the Federal Minister has taken up the consideration of the social democrats, in any case, of increasing the use of police forces as crisis intervention forces for peacekeeping and peacekeeping measures, i.e. the use of appropriate personnel records. He spoke of 50 people who are immediately available. We believe that in general we could make a bigger and more important contribution. If there is a desire, we can offer the Minister our support on this matter. Federal Minister! However, in one thing – and this is my third comment – you have to expect our bitter resistance: if you risk the inner security of the Austrian executive by further withdrawing its employees for this purpose. That's where you stick to the Federal Force Reform Commission: You could use a lot of them for the many planning sites that get out there, because you have already set up a security disaster in Austria. In view of the exploding crime rates and the dramaticly declining intelligence rate, we are saying that we are continuing to cooperate in the fight against crime in Europe and to significantly strengthen international police forces in the context of crisis management, but clearly not when it comes to further weakening the Austrian security system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16494	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke. Redeployment proposal: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16513	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The government template we are discussing today is a non-spectacular one, because we do not even need to amend a law, but the protocol is directly incorporated into the Austrian legal system. However, this government template can still have very spectacular effects, namely in the fight against cross-border international crime. We know from many reports that this type of crime is increasing, and that the investigators, the campaigners, are very often on lost posts, because the perpetrators simply react faster, act more flexible and always have the suspicion. That is why it is particularly important that EUROPOL, the European Police Office, has already been established at the time, and above all that opportunities are now being created to carry out joint investigations and so on. Some time ago – you will remember – a letter bomb attack was committed to the Italian President of the European Commission Romano Prodi. There was already a cooperation with EUROPOL, and it is of course hoped that through international cooperation you will approach the perpetrator faster and easier. As a result, it is also important for Austria, with the agreement of the Protocol, to contribute to strengthening the influence of EUROPOL officials in the joint investigation groups in order to improve the fight against crime. Today, with this government template, we want to define the guidelines for the use of this mixed deployment group and to lay down certain rules, because of course everything needs to be handled according to the rule of law. I am also pleased that we have come to the Committee in agreement to approve of this matter, and believe that we will only achieve success.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16564	Mrs Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16582	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we are to ensure that European security policy is increasingly developed together, institutions create themselves, procedures create themselves, rules themselves, then of course this applies not only to military, but also to police security policy and its instruments. This is a matter of course. If EUROPOL is now being developed as an instrument, it is not an objective problem for us to agree to it, particularly in the context of this protocol-like process. It is important, however, to point out some of the problems which are not solved at the moment. The problem number one is: Wherever public security is concerned, whether police or military security is concerned, it is very important to have a reliable constitutional basis. The agreement in the field of security police and criminal police will only be permanent, and legal criteria will be met in the medium and long term if it creates a European Constitution. There is now a delay which we take note of. This is certainly not the responsibility of the security politicians alone, but it cannot continue in the long run. The same applies to parliamentary competence. Let's not do anything! It disappears, as in the area of military policy, from national responsibilities to Council cooperation and from the common structures such as EUROPOL. There is either a constitutionally secured control by a European Parliament, or there is no parliamentary control. The best thing you can see is the cross-border data transmission. Since on both sides of the respective borders – and if several countries are involved, it becomes more complicated – national legal principles apply, but it is already being acted internationally. In EUROPOL, for example, there are the handling codes, i.e. the data protection provisions, which are completely different nationally. This alone is a huge problem when data protection partners are beginning to share data completely different from one another. The problem is heightened by the fact that it is a purely police area without judicial form. That means: What is closely linked to judicial proceedings in the field of criminal police is cross-border purely police matter, which is totally different from the rules of approval, for example in the judicial field. This is the next problematic development, which indicates how much we need a European connection to the very European judicial structures of the future. On the last point: How can we control if different national handling codes, i.e. access and protection regulations, can always be controlled only by one side of the border? Then Austria is not only asked, but then Austrian authorities are applied to transmit the following structured data sets there or there. Parliamentary control should now be able to assess how it looks at the other, the investigating side at all, what a German authority starts with this data. We have no way at all to check that out. At the current legal level in Europe, we have no opportunity to effectively review what happens to this data, which is very usefully transmitted at the end of the day. If this deficit is not eliminated, the price of police progress will be a major step towards data protection and data security while growing a major rule of law and democracy deficit. That's why my very simple appeal is: Yes, we agree, but in the hope and to some extent in the conviction that the colleagues of other political groups, too, take this joint agreement as one of many reasons for finally allowing the democratic and constitutional process in Europe to move forward a little further by the Republic of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16644	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16662	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the developing international crime, Mr Pilz, it is, of course, vital that we take another step here. It's undisputed. Since we know how international groups cooperate and cooperate very well, I wonder why we have not long thought about other structures. The fact is, however, that EUROPOL can always act as an institution only in conjunction with the local executive. That means, of course, the police must be finally able to control the executive in democracy by Parliament – that no one has to be, that will be so, that will continue to be so –, I only say that EUROPOL too will develop step by step; also as a logical answer to the challenge of crime that we have to face. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, everyone must know what is happening at European borders with illicit drug trafficking, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings or motor vehicle crime. And what should make me so scared and startle us all, is a report by the “spiegel” of this week, which you have certainly read, ladies and gentlemen. Therein an Egyptian diplomat speaks of his fears. His fear is that the memory of Hiroshima and Nagasaki will fade away from the threat scenario that seems to be to us in terms of nuclear crime and the trade of nuclear materials. Best-trained groups, well-equipped groups make a lot of money here to enable terrorism to take a further step towards its terrible activity. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very serious matter, a matter of great importance that the European Union is also taking a step towards cooperation here. Ladies and gentlemen! Another thing that seems worth saying about it. In preparation for this speech, I have briefly looked at the “Google”, which is what is available at EUROPOL. I also looked at the “Yahoo” and found a side of the Greens, for whom Robert Zöchling is responsible, also for a page where he writes: The best methods to combat organised crime are: First: Tell the criminals you're not at home! Secondly, Calls You always start singing the police when an unusually large number of men from the Sicilian laundry company in your home hallway! - Quote. Mr. Pilz, that could be yours. I'm just saying the problem is so serious that we should face this thing with much more serious and not make so stupid jokes. This is really not worthy of the seriousness of the Greens, who are also present in many areas. I think we have to work together here to put forward a further barrage on the whole problem of international crime.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16698	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16717	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What is the objective of EUROPOL? – EUROPOL, based in The Hague, aims to collect information on international organised crime – drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, terrorism – as well as gang crime, and to assist Member States with technical and technical assistance in the investigation of crime. If we ratify this international agreement today, we will give EUROPOL more rights. It has already been mentioned today that mixed investigation groups can identify and that a Member State can be asked by EUROPOL to identify itself in different suspicions. But – and this is important to me – no rights without duties, ladies and gentlemen! Thus, for the European police, if they work in Austria or in another Member State which has ratified this Treaty, in their activities, the immunity is lifted in their official acts. That means that they are to be treated just as a police officer, a police officer who is already acting in the country. And that, I believe, is a very important and correct step in this agreement. What is also important, ladies and gentlemen: In the event of damage to official acts, the compensation is also regulated, i.e. those who suffer from official acts are also held harmless. And something else can be read from this agreement – the Minister has confirmed it –: In the case of official acts of the EUROPOLists, it is in reality reserved only for domestic police officers to carry out forced measures. For example, the EUROPOLists can only carry out interrogations, but must not handcuff them if I can translate them in this way. It is also important that there is no intervention into the sovereign rights of the domestic executive. Finally, I would like to address what Mr Pilz said. It would be important that the European Police Office should also have parliamentary control, that there should be parliamentary control at European level on the one hand, and that there should also be a Court of Justice, so to speak, If the European police do not act as they would expect. There is still a lot to be done in this regard. If you already develop the rights, you also have to ensure that the control rights are regulated accordingly, otherwise the rule of law will come into disrepute. I hope, Minister of State, that during the various negotiations you are attending at European level, you will also take action in this respect, in order to ensure that the rights that European police have in the future also follow the corresponding control rights that the European Parliament, which the Court of Justice will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16768	Mr Schöls. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16786	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The present EUROPOL Convention, which was referred to by all the previous speakers, is a matter of consensus, and I am glad that the Committee on the responsibility of all political groups has really succeeded in making the attempt – I believe that we must be so honest that it cannot be more than trying to do – to make some sort of equality of arms with international crime in various forms. It is also guaranteed that Europe will not be overburdened because the national government frameworks are adequately secured. I can assure my colleague, Mr Wurm, who has finally said that she hopes that Minister Grasser, in his responsibility, that Minister Strasser negotiates at European level in his responsibility – I have said so – as before for Austrian security. [[Abg. May. Worm: Strasser!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: More successful than at European level!]] You can be sure he'll continue to do it. [[Abg. May. Worm: “Successful” I said!]] I was of the opinion that we are aware that we are dealing here with a serious matter and not with a small political war, but apparently you can't really take note of the fact that an ÖVP Minister of the Interior is a successful Minister of the Interior. We take note of it, and we are glad about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16847	Mr Murauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16866	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the Federal Government and of Federal Minister Strasser is clear: Austria must continue to remain the safest country. This succeeds in an exemplary way. Two important steps seem to me to be worth mentioning here. On the one hand, the renewal of the organisation and the structural improvement of the police and the gender army – this process is under way, I congratulate it – and on the international and European competence of security policy. If I may mention Solana, it is he who draws attention to the need for all forces, namely foreign policy, internal policy and defence policy, to help ensure the security of Europe. I can also remember Mr Strasser – and perhaps thank you very much – is already working with the relevant ministers at European level, trying to reach out to the root of crime, bandage, mafia organisations, and to connect with those rather unstable countries so that they can already intervene in this area in a preventive manner. I thank you for this step. Further steps can and will follow after we have adopted this EUROPOL Convention today. Ladies and gentlemen! We are partly unaware of how organized international crime is, with what brutality and with what consequence organized crime moves and does not frighten away from anything. That is why we in the democratic states have the task of protecting our countries, securing Austria, securing Europe. And this federal government and the Minister of State are on the right track. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16905	No further words are available. That concludes the debate. We shall vote, and we shall vote first of all on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs to give its approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 194 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a clear sign. – That is unanimously decided. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany to decide that this State Treaty must be declared in Danish, English, Finnish, French, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish by the edition of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign. . The National Council shall also act unanimously. That's what we've got the 3rd. Agenda item. 4. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16963	We're coming to 4. Agenda item. Oral reporting is not required. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e16988	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to say in advance that we will give our support to this motion for a distrust, Mr Van der Bellen, and we also wish to say and admit that it is basically positive that you, Mr Minister, before Christmas, have succeeded in agreeing with the NGOs on accommodation and accommodation. to ensure that asylum seekers are cared for. That is explicitly recognised. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] This facilitates the situation of refugees, which should not be kept silent either. The members of the ÖVP also thanked you very much for this in the Committee. However, this concerns, as has been said, one point and not the entire asylum and foreign policy of the blue-black Federal Government, unless it already reminds us that it was first of all the Supreme Court that forced you to bring under pressure with its two judgments on the accommodation and supply of helpless asylum seekers. It should also be recalled that it was the aid organisations that began the establishment of emergency quarters for asylum seekers who had been expelled from federal care, that in October 2003, shortly before the agreement that Caritas had to resort to the drastic means of placing refugees in churches in order to raise awareness of the poor care situation. That is why I would like to say that we welcome this agreement in principle. But why this should be a humanitarian milestone, as you have accused it, is not understandable to us because it is natural to give shelter and food to people who seek protection and help in Austria. Put to the point, the humanitarian milestone is essentially that you will establish a legal status this winter, as it will occur from May 2004 onwards, because we will be obliged to support refugees under the EU Directive. That is why the initially defiant attitude was certainly not the right one. It would have been better to seek dialogue with NGOs. However, it should not be recognized that you, Mr Minister, may be a driver of your coalition partner on this point. I personally do not want to assume that you have carried this policy with your full heart. Perhaps the massive pressure you received from the churches has also contributed to this. I remember Bishop Kothgasser, who stressed in a “profile” interview that it would be a serious offense against human rights to leave people without accommodation and food. Not least, the Asylum Act, which, at its core, provides for the almost complete exclusion of the suspensive effect of an appeal and the immediate enforceability of a decision of the first instance. The risk of administrative failure shall be borne exclusively by the applicant. I also recall the ban on novices, according to which new facts and evidence can no longer be presented in the appeal procedure in the future. That is why we believe that, as ÖVP colleagues in the Committee have said, overall justification for this asylum and foreign policy for this mistrust application is by no means obsolete. That is why we will also give our approval to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17045	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17063	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It has been noted how difficult it has been for Mr Posch to support this request from the Greens. It would certainly have been more true if you had said: Mr Minister, thank you for having failed to do so. Within four years, an asylum law corresponding to the Geneva Convention on Refugees and the European Convention on Human Rights, in which the Federal Service has a corresponding status, has created asylum seekers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that the Asylum Act and the Article 15a agreement on Christmas have not yet come into effect is that the opposition itself must take place at the nose. We would have planned to adopt this asylum law in the summer so that we could have negotiated with the countries. Then, of course, it would be with 1. It was also possible that there would be a federal service guaranteed under Article 15a of the Agreement. There has been a very reasonable transitional arrangement with NGOs, which has also contributed to the fact that there has been no problem. This motion for a resolution is generally obsolete and lacks any material basis. It is marked by immunities and untruths to the Minister and, above all, to the officials at the Gmünd crossing. It is, as you have to say, a sad game that, in the absence of a policy of matters, such populist applications are being made to stand out or get into the spotlight. If the Greens were concerned with an honest policy of matters, we should also have said from this point of view: Mr. Federal Minister, we have asked for more support. We have these shelters. Thank you for this human gesture. Mr Federal Minister, we have doubted in numerous speeches that this article is a 15a agreement between the Federal Government, the Länder and NGOs, but we have also been deceived. But, no, the Minister who has tried and is still trying to achieve honest and human federal support for all asylum seekers is being distrusted. This is brought against a minister who has more than doubled the financial resources for the Federal Service from 1999 to 2003. A request for distrust against the Minister of the Interior, which increased the number of Federal Services from 2,500 in 2000 to 9 000 in 2003. A request for distrust will be filed, although the total number of asylum seekers managed by the Federal Government increased from 9 300 in 1999 to more than 20,000 in 2003, more than doubled. There is a request for distrust, although the financial resources for the psychological and psychotherapeutic care of asylum seekers have been allocated. There is a request for distrust, although there is for the first time a special therapy and special projects for traumatized and torture victims. There is a request for distrust, although special care and assistance have been introduced for unaccompanied children and minors. In 2001, six clearing posts were installed, making up a cost of €1.5 million. It is an immeasurable slander to the Minister and to the officials when it is said that the Geneva Convention on Refugees and the European Convention on Human Rights are not respected in the areas of federal care. It has not been said that there is a functioning transitional arrangement – agreed with the NGOs – and it has not been said that in November 2003 a representative of UNHCR will pass the border crossing Gmünd has visited, participated in the consent of asylum seekers and found the procedure to be in order. That's not said! It would be appropriate to stick to the truth in the sense of the asylum seekers and in the sense of Austria. Austria is an asylum country, but not a state of affairs. the country of origin. Anyone who is rightly seeking asylum should also receive asylum. The Minister of the Interior, but of course also the coalition parties, acknowledges this.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17124	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17142	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Wittauer: What was that now? I didn't understand!]] Federal Minister! In November, there was a heated discussion in the Austrian National Council, because the non-governmental organizations dealing with refugee issues and caring for refugees in Austria, the church organizations that do most of this work, first and foremost the Caritas of the Catholic Church and the Evangelical Refugee Service of Austria of Diacony – but not only these church organizations, but also other of smaller churches are all committed – were in crisis. These organisations still bear the main burden of caring for refugees who are not in so-called federal care. And at the height of this crisis – it was on the 12th. November 2003 – the Greens have introduced this motion for a resolution, which is now being discussed indirectly, because there is a negative committee report on it, to the National Council, asking for it to be assigned to the Committee on the Interior. This motion for a resolution was discussed and discussed there in January – we met in committee. The so-called business base, which now serves as the basis for this discussion, has changed, as Mr Posch said earlier, a little to the positive, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! For this, you have received praise and recognition from the public, but also from the Greens and the Social Democrats, to name the opposition in particular. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: Not from you!]] – Of course, Minister of State! Like I said, I'm glad. I remember very well: ==References== You have reached this agreement on the temporary solution of the problem up to Christmas with the Church organizations, but also with the Red Cross and the People's Aid. I said: I'm very happy. I just hope that this was not only the Christmas movement, but that the problem will also be solved in the longer term. That happened after Christmas. The same joy, if you want to do so, I have also expressed your insight. Federal Minister! But this does not change the criticism that I have still practised today and at that time particularly intensively. The human suffering of those on the streets who found shelter in crowded emergency quarters of church organizations is still in my mind today. The thought that 1,500 refugees are housed in the former Kadette School-Kaserne Traiskirchen is not particularly funny. Everyone who once was in Traiskirchen – I assume that the Minister of State has been there several times, as have I and some colleagues; the Human Rights Advisory Board has also made a local eyelet in Traiskirchen at my invitation – knows that 1,500 people in this former barracks are anything but a pleasant thought. On the contrary, Minister! I do not know this now, which you represent today. We are talking about now and today, and not about the situation in November, when the request for distrust was assigned to the committee. Certain things have turned to the better, but – and now I stick to the facts – decisions of the Supreme Court in Austria, which has agreed to the rule of law in the course of the process, which is his duty to ignore, is something else. As a political leader, I now show who is the rule of law in the design of the factual enforcement, not the Supreme Court with its decisions, but I as Minister of the Interior, because I decide who will be included in federal care, who will fly out of federal care or who will not come into federal care at all. I maintain this criticism of the practice of ignoring the rule of law for months, and it is justified because it has undermined the belief in the rule of law in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That we don't have as many homeless refugees today as we did in November, I'll conced you. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, my concern, but also my efforts to solve the situation that we are facing today are a constructive one. ==References====External links== May, according to which the Article 15a agreement on the care of asylum seekers in Austria enters into force, and on the possibilities that a Minister of the Interior has, namely, to influence what is happening in subordinate departments, but also through private contracts with care organisations, we would like to talk today and address you clear appeals, but above all clear calls. That is why we have formulated a new motion for a resolution to assist you, Minister. They've been dealing with asylum and refugee questions for some time, because soon the 4th is. Feber, and then you're Minister of the Interior for four years. They are, so to speak, the one who is the most intensive in this – I do not say now: be concerned. They are the chief minister of all those responsible for these issues. That is why we are now trying to take care of those cases in which emergency situations as regards care may arise. Mr President. I now come to our motion for a resolution. I've heard that he's not being copied and not distributed, although he's very extensive, but maybe you think about it again. I am writing the resolution so as to save paper, I would have made a big line spacing, then it would have been three and a half pages, and then it would have been already distributed. That's three sides!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17193	He will be distributed, Mrs Deputies. If we don't argue, please hold the speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17214	Mr President. I do not argue, I argue, and for the exchange of arguments we are in Parliament. Mr President. I would like to briefly outline to the Minister the content of the motion for a resolution - as it does the Rules of Procedure - and I must do so. This is now addressed to the Minister, not so much to the President, because the Minister is aware of this motion for a resolution, Mr President. Minister! Measures are now to be taken in the case of rising asylum applications in order to elucidate potential situations that may occur very quickly. Wars sometimes do not start long before; and even if They have announced themselves in the past, it was my experience that, when it came to protecting displaced people and refugees, the Austrian government has always acted as if the war had come from bright heaven. They were unprepared. In this situation, Minister, we do not want to bring you and ourselves. This is one of the demands of the motion for a resolution. But the main points concern the events of recent months relating to the prevention of asylum applications in Austria. Minister! They were – I took the media – at the border post in Gmünd at the beginning of November last year and there have inaugurated a Eurodac device or presented it to the public, which is a useful tool on security issues. About 70 Chechens were prevented from applying for asylum in Austria during this period – prevented by Austrian officials! Mr Minister, in the motion for a resolution we call on you to give immediate instructions that practices like those that have been repeated by the newspaper in January of this year like a Déjà-Vu do not happen again. We ask you to stop this procedure by means of instructions. Mr President. In essence, I have outlined those two points, the content of the constructive request to the Minister, namely to act, to provide emergency situations and to avoid illegalities as they happened in Gmünd. There are already complaints of action by the UVS, there are people who sit in camps in the Czech Republic and say they have been prevented from making asylum applications in Austria. Minister! That's what you need to put off. We don't need that. In fact, Austria has experienced situations in the 1990s – I conclude – in which far more people in Austria have found protection from persecution than today. The statements are as follows: We're on the brink of capacity, we can't pick up anyone, we haven't paid for the Bosnia War. That was not true at the end of the eighties. There were a lot more people in federal care than today. And the times have not improved thanks to God, but have improved. The EU has taken clear measures in this regard and has given clear orders, and you, Mr Minister, should implement and follow them. That's all we want. It's so harmless and so simple! I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you are with us when it comes to the protection of refugees, and I agree with the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17272	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is distributed, but I would draw attention to the fact that the issue of distribution does not depend on the extent of the explanatory statement, but on the scope of the text of the resolution. In addition, I did a bad job because you still exceeded the voluntary time limit by 55 percent. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17365	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17383	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I hope you will do such a business with me once when it comes to speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17399	Then I'll set the clock to 8 minutes if you wish.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17414	No, I think I'll be 4 or 5 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen! If anyone ever thought that the motion of censure against the Minister of the Interior was justified and not just an action of the opposition to defame once again the Minister of the Interior, he would have expected this distrust to be withdrawn at the latest in the Committee on the Interior, for everyone has seen that relaxation has occurred on the basis of the agreement that was reached with the countries in mid-December. If I remember the speeches in the committee, then I heard: In fact, we have nothing against you, Mr Minister, and in fact it is no longer justified to maintain this mistrust request, but because we have already put it before, that's why we stay with it. – You have signaled this, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, not only of the Greens, but also of the SPÖ. Now you are trying to maintain this mistrust request effortlessly and to “fear” it with all kinds of suspicions and so on, just so that you do not have to admit that this mistrust request was simply not justified. But it would be honest policy if you said that we had this mistrust at the time and for those reasons, but it was not justified to withdraw the request. But you cannot, unfortunately, ask God to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! For example, the Greens in this motion for a distrust state that it is the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior of the Republic to ensure compliance with the Geneva Convention on Refugees and the European Convention on Human Rights in its area of competence. We all confess to the Geneva Convention on Refugees and to respect the Convention on Human Rights, but we do not close our eyes to the real situation. In fact, most of those asylum seekers who are now in Austria do not have refugee properties under the Geneva Convention, but they are simply people who come to Austria to seek asylum here and try to stay here for as long as possible or to subside. Then to demand that these 40 000 asylum seekers, who in fact cannot provide any asylum grounds which would really entitle them to apply for asylum under the Geneva Convention, be taken into federal care, I simply do not think this is justified. It would cost us 12 million € per month to provide all these 40 000 asylum seekers. Mrs Stoisits said that earlier there were more refugees in Austria. – That may be possible, but we have known that these refugees are only a short time in Austria and will then continue to hike. That is how it was, for example Hungary, Poland, Czechs have migrated or moved back after some time and have not come to Austria intending to stay here forever, ladies and gentlemen. That's an essential difference. Austria has always – I mean, that it has to be stressed over and over again – fulfilled its duty to refugees. Whenever there has been a war conflict in recent years, Austria has shown its full understanding, has provided quarters and money and has never been pressed before the reception of refugees. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I think you have to understand that we also need to take measures to show that we cannot provide for those people who are not refugees who simply want to come to us to build a new life here as real refugees can. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! We have already experienced this today in the Federal Chancellor's statement: Obviously, you enjoy making Austria and Austrian politics bad. They do not apply at all, neither in tax reform nor in asylum policy, which is favourable for Austria. They would never say that Austria has provided great benefits, neither in tax policy nor in asylum policy. [[Abg. Kößl: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Wittauer: That's right!]] I think you should think once again that you should recognize what is being done grandly, what taxpayers are doing for the asylum seekers, although many of them, as I have said, are wrong here. Acknowledging this at last, acknowledge the great achievements of the Austrians! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, from the point of view of what I have just said about the abuse of the right of asylum, the last sentence of the motion for a reluctance is particularly appalling, Madam President. That is what Mrs Stoisits is saying: Minister Strasser takes care of the possible death of asylum seekers and commits legal infringement in the exercise of his duties. - Quote. As I said, in view of what I have just said about the abuse of asylum rights, I find it scandalous that you make accusations to the Minister of the Interior. Mrs Stoisits, if you offer assistance to the Minister of the Interior with your motion for a resolution, I can only advise the Minister of the Interior not to support those who make such requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17490	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17525	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Federal Minister, you are responsible for the removal of asylum seekers, the Minister of Justice is responsible for relocating with legal assistance of the executive children using brachial force. In advance, I would like to say the following: On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the post-commander of Wals-Siezenheim, Kurt Pokorny, very much, who has avoided further escalation on this matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: What about the Minister of Justice who immediately responded?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The case of Christian Wildner and these pictures touch and shock Austria. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Is the Interior Minister guilty now?]] One thing should be clear to all of us: One should not try to solve social and family problems authoritarianly, using state-based means. I believe that we are going to be in line with the fact that we... – Mr Wittauer, I think we should seriously discuss this because the executive also has a contribution to make here. [[Abg. Wittauer: The Minister of the Interior is very excited because it no longer concerns his topic!]] [[Abg. Wittauer: That must be said, the Minister of Justice has responded immediately!]] We would like to thank for the sensible officials who were in Salzburg, who have intervened and have broken down this official act. I do not want to miss out on questions of court ruling whether the child welfare has been taken into account, I do not want to discuss why the decision of the Youth Office Salzburg-Environment has not been taken into account, but I say one thing: [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wittauer]] The action of the executioners is unacceptable to a rule of law and to us in Parliament. Such a thing can and must no longer happen that children are treated like serious criminals! Justice, I say here, is blind on an eye. The WeB prisoners, who had been sentenced to long prison sentences, Mr. Bundesminister Dr. Strasser, were able to take their leave after a month. Now, however, state force is being used against a child. Forced measures – and we should all remember this – to a child in this form are unbearable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can therefore ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to influence your colleague Dr. Böhmdorfer, so that such measures no longer occur and officials are trained accordingly. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Mr President! At least one sentence on the agenda!]] One thing has turned out to be: The Gendarmerie officials were apparently better trained than the judicial officials. [[Abg. Wittauer: Mr President! To the agenda! That has nothing to do with it!]] [[Call:To the case]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: Mr Federal Minister, you received a letter from me yesterday on the shortcomings in Eko Cobra, Salzburg. You informed me in committee that all the shortcomings had been corrected. I have listed the shortcomings to you – your answer in the committee was at least wrong. [[Abg. That's not true!]] Secondly, I would be interested: ==References====External links== January 2004 that the staff stand will be increased in other countries, not in the federal state of Salzburg. – I ask, Federal Minister, how do you intend to keep your promise to the country of Salzburg?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17702	Mr Dr. Drinkl came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17720	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the request for distrust against our esteemed Minister, Mr Strasser, and forward the following: Austria has a decades-long tradition as an asylum country. This started with the refugees from Hungary in 1956 and continues to this day unchanged. This can only apply to refugees who have this status under the Human Rights Convention or the Geneva Convention on Refugees! Considering the development of asylum applications only for the last five years, it can be seen that their number has grown in an explosion-like way. I now claim that these asylum applications are not only refugees within the meaning of the Human Rights Convention, but simply people who are not so good at home. That's our problem. I think people should also be told the truth abroad: Austria cannot take up migrants from all parts of the world, we are unable to do so. And one should deal with people so responsibly that one does not give the impression that everyone could come to Austria, his asylum application would be done positively here. I would like to express my thanks to Mr Strasser for having taken this path of honesty from the very beginning, ladies and gentlemen, and for following this consistent line from the very beginning. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You from the Greens justify your mistrust against an active, reformable and successful minister with hardness in individual cases! More: They do not hesitate to accuse the Federal Minister of Justice of breach of law and breach of the Geneva Convention on Refugees. . I recognise, Mrs Stoisits, that it is embarrassing to you today that you have tabled this request at the time. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: This is not embarrassing at all!]] [[Abg. Kößl: Visually embarrassing!]] They have not been able to make a single argument today as to why this request should be justified! But you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, may be comforted: Even more embarrassing is the appearance of the Social Democrats on this question. Mr Posch, it was unpleasant for you, and Mr Maier has just chosen another subject so that he does not have to make any statement on this request. But I can tell you one thing: We reject this accusation with all repressiveness! And you can't prove this your accusation by anything. On the contrary: You know that asylum policy in Austria is going a very good way – and this is unpleasant for you, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They justify your application with cases of hardness in individual cases, but: Hardness cases do not yet have to be illegal. I am convinced that all officials working on these issues are acting in accordance with the law – and I am proud that Federal Minister Strasser is also on these issues with his officials. Mrs Stoisits, even today's motion for a resolution cannot justify your distrust. They know that federal care is ensured for all those who are in need of help, and above all for those who participate in the process by identifying their identity. Your application is not justified by anything. Mrs Stoisits, I can tell you: You should have the courage to go out here and explain: Okay, that was autumn; today this is different, so my request is not justified – and I am withdrawing this request because I know that asylum policy has made good progress! – However, you are not concerned with having an objective discussion of facts here, but with making this government worse by trying to adapt one minister to another here in the House. But you won't succeed. You won't succeed in a suit, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We from the Austrian People's Party have full confidence in our Federal Minister, Strasser, because his politics and his successes speak for themselves! Therefore, you will certainly not be surprised that we refuse your request – and this for good reason – to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17792	Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e17810	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What could be done badly about this government policy as an opposition, I wonder! The government itself takes care of this; we do not need to do anything about it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mrs Partik-Pablé said that she had the impression that we had nothing against the Minister of the Interior – to quote them almost literally. I can only say: I'm sure that's why I'm missing out on the appropriate clarity. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You'll make it up, I'm convinced!]] We don't need to maintain anything laborious at all. On the contrary: Almost daily, the Minister of the Interior repeatedly provides new justifications and reasons, which is why it is more necessary and appropriate to address our distrust to him today. When you look at it, it's on the 19th. December, after weeks, if not months of demands, protests, a request for distrust, demonstrations by NGOs, the Minister of the Interior finally managed to find a regulation at least for the Christmas holidays, so that no one in Austria freezes on the street in winter, possibly even on Christmas, it is not a reason for the Minister of the Interior to shake the incense barrels and to speak him half-heartedly! That was and is a witness of poverty! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kößl: There is a very reasonable transitional arrangement, Mrs Colleague! You probably don't know yourself! Why don't you check it out?]] With the question of federal care, the head of the Eisberg is in fact at the head of the Eisberg. For reasons of time, I cannot go into the asylum law as such in detail, but I would just like to say once again that the majority of the government in this House has adopted an asylum law which is clearly illegal and non-constitutional. [[Abg. Wittauer: Where?]] [[Call: Who says that?]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Maybe you shouldn't just stand out and say: We are already on the European Convention on Human Rights, but... – Ladies and gentlemen, there is no But! One stands for a human rights convention. Human rights are maintained, and there are no laws that are contrary to them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kößl: There is the Geneva Convention on Refugees and the European Convention on Human Rights!]] Now a small correction so that I can save myself then have to make an actual correction. To the numbers you argue with. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] – Mr Wittauer, if you have anything to say about the asylum law, then come out, but at least give me my right to speak here briefly. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wittauer]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the arguments and figures. Especially my previous speaker spoke of an “explosion-like increase” in refugee numbers, never as many in federal care as today and so on. [[Abg. Wittauer: I always thought there was a debate!]] I have a nice little statistics here. In 2003, we had roughly 10,000 persons in federal care. In 1993, as far as the long-term memory was concerned, there was a federal action on the occasion of the Bosnian refugees, with over 40,000 people in Austria being accommodated in federal care alone. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is a difference! ...]] 1993 it went, and there were in addition 2 500 members outside of this campaign. You, Mr Kößl, want to explain to me that today we in our country – and you are constantly saying that we in Austria are getting better and better and better economically and in terms of income – can not even afford a quarter of these figures in the Federal Service!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Kößl: You should have been more careful about what I told you!]] I am not talking about how the rule of law is dealt with now when the OGH says that there is a legal right to federal support for all asylum seekers and the Minister has a week-long fight against this judgment. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: For the needy!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18021	Ladies and gentlemen, one second! – I call on all members of the President-in-Office to witness that we have discussed in detail that intermediate calls are, of course, legitimate, but we do not all want a speaker to be virtually prevented from articulated by permanent calls in between. It has been added that one must be particularly careful when it comes to fellow Members. In that too we had consensus. And then another member of the presidential conference added, the President should be careful not to put Members who sit elsewhere in the first row and apply this practice. (a) read the minutes and (b) stick to them. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But speakers should not be so provoking!]] Please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18068	Thank you. – My knowledge is that there is no Rules of Procedure in Parliament, which can be interpreted as provocation of the speaker’s seat and to be forbidden by the Bureau. I would now like to come to the current practice which, as I believe, justifys quite a mistrust of the Minister. We had once had a discussion about the invitation policy of Mr Strasser in this House. Federal Minister Strasser has wanted Czech refugees, some of whom are shown to have been able to document this, to apply for asylum, which the border with Gmünd in the night of the 31st century. ==References== In November, “invited ” to return, because there was no place in the Federal Service. Now one can say that it was before Christmas, and now the federal care has created places; therefore this is certainly no longer happening now. – First of all, this does not help those who have been rejected and, in some cases, have been banned from staying in Austria, and second, there is a new case, i.e. the 15th century. January, where the same thing happened in Gmünd. I have the impression that the Minister of the Interior has started a pilot project with the BH Gmünd, which is very practical, because: The Czech authorities leave a refugee group across the Austrian border, inform the Austrian authorities so that they can be caught at the same time. The Austrian authorities are relocating on the grounds that: Unfortunately, we have no place in federal care! - I'll go in there for a second. – In the final effect and as a result: a refusal of asylum rights in Austria as well as such in the Czech Republic, because leaving the Czech territory as such undermines the right to asylum. So there is a very bad practice in which people are pushed across and down a border, people who often come from devastating circumstances and have a right to apply for asylum and get them properly tested. – This right, however, constantly undermines you, Minister! There can no longer be talk of hardening in “individual cases ”! There is a structural failure of the ministry and the targeted policy to undermine and undermine asylum law. And that, as I believe, is more than just a reason to distrust the Minister of the Interior, not only in November, but also now in January. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Then I also wonder if you will qualify for the 1,500 people who live in Traiskirchen under conditions that are, in part, really devastating, which are hardly necessary to life. I do not find it particularly humane when 300 people, and whether only 200 or 100 people, have to share a shower. I find it unbearable in a country like Austria when people who come here, in part from significantly warmer regions, do not once get a winter clothing just because they missed a deadline of registration – not due to their guilt. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] So there are structural problems in federal care itself, which take place at a level I would not have agreed to one of the richest countries and a rule of law such as Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18137	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18155	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For about a year ago, as far as I can remember, the Green Vehement tried to push into the government, and assured that they could be government, ready for government, and what I know. When I look at this day and see: Distrust against the Minister of Finance, mistrust against the Minister of the Interior, harsh words against the Chancellor, I must say: So that would be a “beautiful” government participation! Thank you many times, I'm glad you didn't. [[Abg. Oillinger: I think so!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier, who is here now, I should like to mention the state of play so that this is also said, although this is not the subject of this item on the agenda: Minister Böhmdorfer is hard on the Causa “Christian”. This is documented by a headline and an article in the “Kronen Zeitung” of tomorrow. Of course, the Minister responded at the time he heard: ‘Minister Böhmdorfer: ‘Government against children is inadmissible’’’. – I can say: We are very glad that our Federal Minister responded immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject: The motion for a resolution, rather than its explanatory statement, proves once again how important this new asylum law is for us in Austria, because only in a rapid and objective procedure do the asylum seekers know relatively soon or even very soon how they really are. The whole displeasure with the chain proposals that are still being practised there is finally an end. This new asylum law will improve a lot. I mention a few examples, such as the number of prisoners in Austria's prisons: On the 29th day of the year. A total of 409 Nigerians were in prison on December 2, 2003, 224 of them in prison. There's someone to tell me that's a loud businessman or anything. No, of course, most of them are so-called asylum seekers, schinasylants. – This will then change relatively quickly! Or: At present, 135 Georgians are in prison in Austria, and in the reigns of Sierra Leone or Gambia there are 80 and 71 people. – With the new asylum law will change relatively quickly, thanks to God! Something else will improve. An article in today’s edition of the “Kronen Zeitung ” read: ‘Czech clan was dissatisfied with quarter.’ I quote: “In the village of Eberstein in the district of St. Veit a quarter was prepared for the refugees in the castles. But when one Chechen noticed that there was neither TV nor satellite in the rooms, everyone else refused to leave the bus. They demanded to be brought immediately to a ‘better accommodation’, to a larger city. ... This clan has once protested against alleged bad food in an asylum district by means of a 'Hungerstreik'." [[Abg. May. Trunk: Absolutely stupid! ...]] So I think that this is going to get better with the new asylum law! Why has this law become so important? I tell you how the numbers of asylum seekers have exploded in recent years – something that the opposition obviously closes its eyes too –: In 1993, there were still 4,744 asylum seekers, i.e. those who sought asylum in Austria, in 1998 there were already 13,800, in 2000 there were already 18 200, and in 2002 there was a doubling of 36,980 asylum applications – all with the same law, which focused on 4,700 asylum seekers! Of course, in view of this, it is urgently necessary to do something about it. Finally, one thing, because I always hear from the opposition that the Austrian law is so strict, it is an individual case in the European Union, it is far more than a compulsory exercise, one jumps ahead to the first place of hardness. I quote here from an article of a newspaper called “Public Security”: ‘New asylum law. ==References== The new asylum law came into force in January 2004. It provides for clear criteria for the assessment of asylum applications, as well as shorter and simpler procedures; rejected asylum seekers can be postponed more quickly.” Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is not an individual case, and we are very glad that there will be this new asylum law. Much will change for the better for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18205	Mr Parnigoni is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18224	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kößl – he withdrew from the debate – gave a speech that I thought was: Well, the security spokesman of the ÖVP is taking a stand, but the applause is very poor! This has already impressed me very much. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The speech has obviously impressed you too!]] Secondly, he has once again told his usual insult, which the Minister has repeatedly explained that the opposition is due to the fact that the treatment of asylum matter in Parliament would not have been possible earlier. For the time being, I make it clear and correct: A Federal Minister must know when to put an application to Parliament so that this matter can be dealt with in accordance with his time-settings there! Furthermore, the question arises whether he was not sure of the majority in order to be able to go into the negotiations, because he had prepared the legislative text. That means he could have conducted the negotiations with the countries, or he was not sure that he would get the majority here. So I'll leave that to you. In all cases, if anything does not fit him, the responsibility meets him exclusively on his own. That was held once. With your inability, don't talk to the opposition anymore! I'd like to write that to you in the main book. Ladies and gentlemen! I note that we would like to support the Greens' request for a failure of confidence, not only because of the Federal Minister's behaviour on asylum issues, but above all because the security balance of the Minister is a disaster and the security of Austria is increasingly at risk. This is not what I am saying, you only need to read in the “Tyrol daily ” where it means, for example,: More cases, much less clarified. Dramatic increase in crime. – You can’t say that they are loud asylum seekers. In Vienna you even have a disastrous balance sheet, with you still making an attempt to beautify. That’s not what I’m saying either, that’s what the “Kurier” says. The “Kurier” says that “in the last quarter of 2003 the last offer was sent out to lock up suspects on bending and breaking and correct the statistics, though only for the moment. ” Federal Minister! I am excited about the 30 000 cases that you are now reviewing whether they have been correctly entered, and I am curious about how if you do not manipulate that – I do not think that – the balance sheet looks out whether then there is still an increase of 0.5, at a very bad recovery rate in Vienna, which is 26.8 percent. I have the feeling that you will experience a disaster there too. They will also be able to obtain a lower level of information in Vienna. Just as you deceive the people, the FPÖ – and I conclude with that – is doing so, because the FPÖ has taken all this into account, every personnel measure, every deterioration. In the country election campaign in Salzburg, FPÖ issues a paper in which it writes: “While the crime rate is increasing steadily, gender posts are closed” – by the FPÖ and the ÖVP by the way – “keep posts unoccupied at night” – “Blamt FPÖ, ÖVP – “and the executive officials will see through the reform threats of the Interior Minister” – look! – “In the course of the exercise of their service, it is uncertain and dissuasive.” Ladies and gentlemen! That's all that's said. Every Salzburgian and every Salzburgian knows what he has to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18260	The next item is the speech by Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18279	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Parnigoni, even more doubly than you and your group are acting on this matter, it is impossible to act at all! First, the representatives of both the Greens and the Social Democrats are delaying the arrival of committee dates by fully exaggerating all the possibilities of the Rules of Procedure – and then they are the same who complain of the late in-force steps of the Asylum Act and the Federal Care Act! But now the Greens are even taking a step further in their contradictory nature and are making a distrust request. Our Federal Minister Strasser and we from the ÖVP are working with a proper and responsible asylum and care policy for those who really need help. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, finally stop the slender step of our homeland! The following significant data illustrate the excellent work of our Federal Minister Strasser: Since the adoption of the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs by the ÖVP in February 2000, the number of Federal Services has increased from 2 300 to 9 600. There was also a significant increase in the number of federal servants in the Bundesasylamt. Much has developed in our country for the better – thanks to the acquisition of the Federal Ministry of the Interior by our Federal Minister Strasser. Further positive achievements of our Federal Minister, Strasser, include the conclusion of Article 15a contracts, which regulate the care of asylum seekers between the Federal Government and countries. On the basis of the cross-floating of the opposition, this arrangement of support for asylum seekers by the Federal Government and countries can only enter into force later than planned. For the transitional period, however, our Federal Minister, Strasser, has managed to conclude reasonable agreements with the NGOs. Of the opposition parties, and there is no commitment to ensure basic care and protection for asylum seekers in Austria. Why Try You are always, unwarranted and unthinked, adapting the excellent work of Federal Minister Strasser to asylum policy? How do you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, actually take your “information” from over and over again to dirty fairy tales that you always play out in the media? No one will be released from federal care unless they are people who have already been sentenced or who are an unreasonable behavior for others. Thanks to the reasonable policy of our Minister of the Interior, Strasser, traumatized and unaccompanied minors are currently given special care. In addition, €3.5 million has been invested in federal care in the short term, in order to improve infrastructure. Quite clear: The achievements of our deserved Federal Minister, Strasser, make your motion of censure self-evident. There is no sound and thoughtful argument that could support your request. For my group I therefore reject this motion for a reluctance to make the most of the decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18334	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18352	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot – and also the right thing – about the legal obligation to accommodate and provide especially in need of asylum seekers. Federal Minister! Our social democrats are concerned with ensuring basic care for all refugees in the area of foreign and asylum policy. We must provide assistance to all refugees in need of protection, we must provide humanity. However, with your restrictive asylum policy, Mr Strasser, you are going another way, a way that does not receive our consent, which we have repeatedly pointed out, but you, Mr Bundesminister, have not taken our constructive criticism seriously, have our objections, our suggestions and many of our proposals, which are also yours, Mrs Dr. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There is nothing about criticism at all!]] Partik-Pablé, should be known, should not be taken into account. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Check in the Duden what “constructive” means!]] Our policy here, but also the Article 15a agreements have already been mentioned today. We have also repeatedly called for this for Vienna – and you must confirm this – and we were also ready to submit a financial statement in Vienna. Especially with our policy in Vienna, we were able very quickly to provide 500 accommodation places for refugees in order to prevent a marked unbearable situation and threatening homelessness, even during the pre-Christmas season. That's just proof that reasonable interaction makes sense. Their restrictive asylum laws, on the other hand, are also inconsistible throughout Europe; this goes too far, especially when it comes to asylum-seeking people – and therefore a decisive no to that of your policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18417	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Kapeller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18436	Mr President. Highly esteemed Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition to accuse this Minister of failure in the supply and accommodation of asylum seekers is already absurd, because in his four-year term Ernst Strasser has really done a lot for the federal administration, has reached an agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG and has led to a dialogue with NGOs. In view of this, you are talking about the opposition of failure, of refusal! But thank you for giving us the opportunity to bring the good policy of our Minister of the Interior Strasser into the right public and media light. Yes, Ernst Strasser has tripled the seats in the Federal Service in his term of office! Yes, this minister, with a practical and fair asylum law, is truly giving persecuted and displaced people a new opportunity! Yes, according to international studies, Ernst Strasser has made Austria the safest country in the world – and with the reforms to be implemented this level will be held! Yes, that's the truth! Thank you for being allowed to say that again and again.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18463	The next item is Mrs Schahrer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18481	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! What I criticize today is your climate, the climate of hidden stigmatizing language about people who cannot resist. Unfortunately, Mr Mainoni is no longer here, because I would like to ask him what cynicism is driving him to say that every refugee needs a TV and a satellite dish. Such verbal attacks, ladies and gentlemen, create enemy images, and I strongly advise Mr Mainoni – you can do it to him: He needs no fear of touch! – to talk to the people in the asylum shelters! Mr Strasser, if you claim that no quarters are set up for refugees without the involvement of the mayor, you will not do so anyway. For example, you have defamed Salzburg Mayor Heinz's damage and claimed that he has rejected accommodation for refugees – even though you, Mr. Federal Minister, are not with The mayor's been talking about damage. Also, the mayors of Saalfelden and Mittersill did not invite you to an open dialogue, not to a co-operation. You, Minister Strasser, shift responsibility to the countries, to the municipalities, to NGOs and to church organizations, according to the motto: They're going to judge it! Mr. Minister, your brilliant presentation of the asylumant quarter of a four-star hotel owner in St. Johann im Pongau, whom you called a “former” model, would quickly lose sight if you made the effort to pay a visit there, unregistered and at minus 15 degrees outside temperature. It would be very, very cold for you in this House, Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Finally, Minister Strasser, take care of your responsibility as Minister of the Interior and ensure a decent accommodation and companionship of people who do not have a lobby! So that the Christmas peace or your New Year's Goodwill tour doesn't remain unique, I allow myself to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18572	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, has been tabled by the honourable Member. Walter Posch, Mag. Gisela Wurmund colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiation. Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18599	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! Mr Drinkl said that Austria has a tradition of decades as an asylum country. – That is true, Mr Drinkl, only: With this newly adopted asylum law, we break with this good tradition. – I would like to say that right at the beginning of my speech. My previous speakers have already said much about the reasons for the mistrust request and the reason why it is right to remain upright. We too are delighted by the solution that existed before Christmas, so that no asylum seekers have to stand on the street, and of course we welcome it. But, Minister, before Christmas, this solution cannot conceal the fact that there was an OGH decision that was made with it – in fact, you have created a legal status. This pre-Christmas solution can also not conceal the fact that this solution has only been achieved through massive pressure from NGOs, churches and caritas. Mr Kapeller says about this “dialogue”; I think it was pressure from these charitative institutions and NGOs. The Christmas solution can also not conceal the fact that, despite your oral commitment, there is no guarantee for asylum seekers that they do not land on the streets again. That is why we have already tabled a motion for a resolution in the Committee to guarantee federal support – unfortunately, the colleagues from ÖVP and FPÖ voted against it. Today you have the opportunity to agree and give humanity a chance in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As Erika Scharer has said, what I found very unfortunate and worrying during the whole debate on the asylum law in the autumn, and which I find very sad in today's debate, is that language, which is also taking place here in Parliament, that mood that is being made by the highest point against these weak people in our country. When Mr Mainoni comes out of the newspapers with his horror reports, I find that regrettable and worrying. I feel that the permanent criminalisation of asylum seekers is a contempt for human beings, and I do not think this is a responsible policy. At this point, I would like to thank all NGOs and charitative institutions for taking over the work that the Austrian Federal Government and the Interior Ministers actually have to do. Thank you to the NGOs!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18653	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18672	Mr President. High house! The present proposal, in which we are to vote on whether we are withdrawing confidence from the Minister, provides a good opportunity to take stock of the Minister's activity and to ask whether, on the basis of his past achievements, we have the confidence that he can continue to do his work well in the future. So let's take stock of your work, Minister Strasser! [[Abg. Prince: This is a positive balance!]] A few words about this: First: Word of crime. – In your term of office, Minister Strasser, Austria has experienced the greatest increase in crime since human thought. We currently have the highest crime rate and the lowest reconnaissance rate. – Mr Minister, this is not very trusting! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is a “quality proof”!]] Secondly, Keywords of personnel policy. – You have made sure that today’s security guards have less time for crime prevention or crime prevention than before you take office, and you have degraded all-recognized police officers and, for no objective reason, even partially pushed them out of the police service. Finally, the Administrative Court has even confirmed an illegal conduct to you on this question. – Minister, also on this question: Little trusting! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, Tag Civil Service. – Civil servants today must be indebted to stop civil service and not to freeze or starve at it at the same time. In the case of housing costs, the rental costs will be replaced, but not the heating costs. In the case of twelve months of civil service, it is clear that it is also necessary to heat during this period. The administrative court has also repeatedly advised you that thousands of civilian servants receive too little food money, and you have done nothing to stop it. – On this issue too, Minister: Little trusting! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. School: zero idea...!]] Fourth: On the question of integration: Furthermore, children have to wait for years until they get a quota square. There is also a high court ruling that you have to change the practice in this regard. You still haven't met that! They seem to have no interest at all in the fact that there are international journalists in Austria. Some well-known media such as BBC or “New York Times” have already broken off their tents because these media did not want to expose their employees to the horrors of your authority, namely to be asked to stop asking if they can do well enough German. [[Abg. Murauer: What he knows! ... “deeply impressed”!]] – On this issue too, Minister: Little trusting! Last point: Keywords of asylum. – In the asylum field, they have also ignored two judgments of the Administrative Court for weeks and have placed asylum seekers on the streets. They have only begun, under the pressure of “Volkshilfe”, deacony, caritas, Red Cross and the public, to stop this practice and to comply with the judgments of Supreme Courts. Summa summarum: They do not show the necessary respect for human rights, you do not show the necessary respect for the rule of law and therefore not the necessary respect for democracy, and you have already played your confidence advance for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18760	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18779	Mr President. Minister! High house! Let me briefly address the issue of public security. We have heard several times today how bad it is about public security in Austria. [[Abg. Grandruck: We're all trembling!]] Crime is also growing rapidly in Carinthia. According to media reports – and not only media reports, but also statistics – there was an increase of around 40 percent in Villach in 2003, while the education rate fell by 3.82, i.e. around 4 percent. It also says – and this has been confirmed – that, despite promises from your side, Mr. Minister, from autumn 2004, the current staff status of 237 security and Kripo officials will be reduced to 191 and that the resolution of the criminal department of the Federal Police Department Villach will also stand in the room. So this savings fund does not contribute precisely to calming the population, and instead of making announcements or promises that are not met, I would like you to do more for public security. Unfortunately, I can no longer give you my confidence in your work and your promises. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18815	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its 357 report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – The request was adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Mag. Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues on the immediate restoration of the right to protection against persecution and to ensure comprehensive support for asylum seekers. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Walter Posch, colleagues on ensuring the accommodation of asylum seekers. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. 5. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (5D.B._Other Organiser Federal Constitutional Act on the course of the State border between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany in the border section ‘Salzach’, in Sections I and II of the border section ‘Scheibelberg-Bodensee’ and in parts of the border section ‘Innwinkel’ (358 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (91 e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic, with which the Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic on the common border of the State of 21 December 1989. It was amended and supplemented on 3 December 1973, together with installations (359 d.a.) 7. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (118 e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic on changes to the course of the common border and installations (360 d.a.) 8. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (6D.B._Other Organiser Federal Constitutional Act on Changes in the History of the State Border Between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic (361 d.b.) 9. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (7D.B._Other Organiser Federal Constitutional Act on Changes in the History of the State Border between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary in Subsections C II and C IV (regulated Pinka and regulated Strem) (362 d.b.) 10. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (44 e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on amendments and additions to the Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Hungarian People's Republic on the visibility of the common national border and on the related issues of 31 December 1990. of 29 October 1964, as amended by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, as amended by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. April 1987 and installations (363 d.a.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (9 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany on the mutual recognition of documents for the taking up of firearms and ammunition by members of traditional shooter associations and sports guards (364 d.e.c.) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (219 e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Swiss Confederation, represented by the Federal Office for Refugees (BFF), Taubenstrasse 16, CH-3003 Berne, and the Republic of Austria, represented by the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs, Section III, Herrengasse 7, A-1010 Vienna, on the establishment and operation of the International Center for Migration Policy Development (ICMPD) in Vienna (365 d.B.) 13. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (220 e.g._Other Organiser Treaty on the Third Amendment to the Treaty establishing and operating the International Centre for Migration Policy Development (ICMPD) (366 d.b.) 14. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (221 e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Swiss Confederation, the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on the amendment and extension of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Treaty on the establishment and operation of the International Centre for Migration Policy Development in Vienna (367 d.b.) 15. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (222 e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Swiss Confederation, the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on the amendment of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The International Centre for Migration Policy Development in Vienna (368 d.b.) signed a contract in Vienna on June 1993 on the establishment and operation of the International Centre for Migration Policy Development in Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e18987	We now come to points 5 to 15 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr. Deputy Friend. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19012	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are discussing today a number of changes in the course of the Austrian border with some of our neighbouring countries, but also a change in the provisions on the taking of firearms into Bavaria. I would like to address the last point in particular. Bavaria and Austria combine a very long history. My constituency, the Innviertel, was even part of Bavaria until 225 years ago, and this common story contributes to the fact that we still have a strong connection with our Bavarian neighbours in our culture and way of life. Of course, this is also recognized in dialects and customs. In many traditional shooters or shooters, the state borders are overcome, not only between Germany and Austria, but very often between these two countries. You compete with each other in friendly competition. Weapons may be brought to another EU Member State only on the basis of a European Firearms Pass and prior consent from the Authority since the amendment of the Arms Act 1996. This means that members of a traditional firearms club and sportsmen are forced to issue a European firearms passport and obtain prior approval for each trip. These bureaucratic obstacles are now being removed by this government template. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] It contains the mutual recognition of national documents for the transport of firearms in the territory of Bavaria and Austria, and I welcome these new regulations. In concrete terms, that means: Members of Austrian traditional shooter associations and sports associations may carry firearms and ammunition limited to the Free State of Bavaria and have them there if the association or the The association has an Austrian identity card for traditional shooter associations and sports association. First of all, the participation of a person mentioned in the ID is necessary for the completeness and transport security of the firearms. The second condition is the presentation of an invitation or registration to participate in a traditional or shooting sport event in the Free State of Bavaria. It is therefore by no means such that there will be no controls in the future. Of course, security also has top priority in the area of traditional shooter associations and sportsmen. There will also be conditions in the future to be strictly followed. But new is the reduced red tape. On the subject of security, I would like to say that sportsmen are people who deal responsibly with weapons, have these weapons out of passion and sports spirit and also know exactly what one can do with a weapon. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this needs to be made more complicated for the future. With the consent of the authority of the EU Member State concerned, where these problems have always been, it is now over. I do not believe that there is any immediate danger in the area of sportsmen's and traditional associations. However, it is far more important to stop illegal possession of weapons. For years, cross-border projects have fostered the cooperation of cultural initiatives by neighbouring countries. I am therefore voting in favour of promoting cross-border activities of traditional and sports protection associations by facilitating bureaucracy. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to give your consent to this government template, in the sense of neighboring relations with the Free State of Bavaria and in the sense of cultural and traditional care! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19086	Next item is the report by Mrs Pepper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19104	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the government proposals, we have agreements that easily adapt the course of the Austrian border with Germany, the Czech Republic and Hungary. These three countries have, in fact, agreed to obtain clearly the national borders, but also to address the related issues, or do these States intend to further deepen their friendly cooperation. Especially with the enlargement of the European Union, this cooperation is more needed than ever. In addition, these templates concern current and current border documentation. The main reason for these border corrections is the partly artificial, partly natural changes in river and stream currents, which result in the state border currently running out of the streambed in several cases or cutting it several times and thus no longer clearly recognizable. There are two bilateral agreements with the Czech Republic, which redefine the border between the two contracting parties. In which an agreement is concluded in 10 cases, a new course of the State border is fixed and the corresponding area balance is made. The second agreement provides for a timely and up-to-date border documentation. The national borders will now be corrected in the following areas: between Austria and Germany in the border section “Salzach”, in the border section “Scheibelberg-Bodensee” and in parts of the Inn district. In my federal state of Burgenland, a contract was concluded with Hungary that the state border would again be placed in the middle of the Pinka and Strem rivers, as provided for in the 1964 border agreement. According to explanations in the State Treaty, the new border course has been agreed in such a way that the total size of the parts separated from the two territories is fully offset. Since this regulation is also in our interest, we will give our consent to the government documents.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19157	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19176	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pleasure for me to be able to experience not only as a Member, but also as President of the Tyrolean Association of Tradition and a member of the Schützenbund, that the agreement between Germany and Austria on the recognition of the documents on the taking away of firearms and ammunition by members of traditional shooters and sportsmen will finally be decided today. In the period before, it was laborious to take arms and ammunition with visitors to traditional events, this was always hampered by bureaucratic obstacles. Whoever is associated with tradition could and did not understand this. For me, it is incomprehensible that the Committee on the Internal Affairs of this conclusion of the State Treaty could only be decided by majority. The Greens voted against with MEPs. I do not understand this because it was very important for the traditional associations and the shooters to maintain this connection with the neighbouring states in the spirit of tradition. Anyone who has to do with traditional associations or who is a member of traditional associations knows how important the mutual cross-state exchange is. Tradition is not only a dusty matter, but is lived daily over the clubs. Tradition preserves our roots and belongs to supported, for it is only possible to pass on the past knowledge to the youth. Everyone knows that non-weapon shooters cannot give salutes or honorary awards. I would like a similar agreement to be finally concluded with Italy, as this condition is unbearable for us to protect. Today, one of the existing obstacles to the joy of the Sagittarius Associations has been removed. I would like to thank the government for the use of the deputy responsible for the traditional protection associations, and I would like to ask the government to continue to work for cross-border agreements in the interests of the traditional associations. We liberals will gladly agree to this agreement. It's time! Sagittarius!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19216	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19234	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to miss out on the role of the Sagittarius in the Sagittarius Associations, but only to talk briefly about the agreement and then generally about the issue of firearms. The small border traffic of traditional shooter associations is already taking place today, and it is also meant to take place. Of course, they should also be able to take their weapons with them in order to be able to give up their shots during the marches. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] The whole thing is already regulated today. We are not moving in an irregular area either, and if we decide on a new regulation, we have to make a comparison with the starting position: Now, for border crossings with weapons, what is regulated both in Europe and in Austria, especially in the Waffengesetz. In other words, a European Firearms Pass is the basic requirement, and there are time limits, which are regulated by the Austrian Weapons Act for the Bringing of Weapons, and usually one year. In addition, there is a link to the respective arms passport provisions with five-year deadlines. That is to say, we have a regulation today that brings a lot of bureaucracy for the shooters if they can complete all this as individuals and not simply do it within the framework of the association. There should be reliefs, but I think that if you deregulate immediately. Under this agreement, we would somehow release everything and link it up with a ten-year period, unlike all the other provisions with which we are now moving for a maximum of five years. In addition, I am particularly concerned to note that some important issues are not addressed at all. The Greens have, and we have also formulated this in a motion for a resolution, which is also in place in the committee for discussion, for the fact that sportsmen, who are also covered by the agreement, can ensure a regulated custody of their weapons, which the agreement completely conceals. I would be particularly interested to see how the storage of weapons for a longer visit than a journey for one or two hours across the border to celebrate and back, which I think is more of an exception than the rule, namely for the time of its subsequent social activities, which are desirable. Now only the talk is about the competence of one or two responsible for the association. [[Abg. Wittauer: There are own weapons champions!]] We have applicable rules in the Weapons Law for Weapons Storage from about 20 pieces. It remains completely open, however, where the weapons, with which sportsmen or traditional shooters enter or leave the reverse agreement are accommodated. Are these then in the hotel room, in the bus or in a private car? On this point, we really have too little regulation or too much deregulation compared to what we have today. As a sign that we would like to have a careful regime for the use of firearms and in particular the need to better regulate the custody of the mentioned groups of persons, we reject this agreement with a symbolic no.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19277	The next item is the speech by Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19295	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have very little to do with sports association or traditional shooter associations, as I come from the East Styria, because they are rather sparsely sown in us in the East. As some of the West colleagues are still on the list of speakers, I will leave them with this subject area. Instead, I would like to refer to points 12 to 15, namely the agreement between Austria, Switzerland and Hungary, which the International Centre for Migration Policy has to deal with. This centre is an intergovernmental organization, and it has its seat in Vienna. At present, the Centre has seven Member States, and this important institution is supported by around 30 governments. If you look at the homepage or relevant details, you will notice that the tasks of the center are particularly interesting. It examines the current political situation in the countries of origin of migrants. It tries to analyze the currents of migration movements. However, priority will also be given to migration management as well as to the refugee and asylum systems of individual countries. This centre is a research centre whose outlets reach to the universities in Eastern Europe. In recent years, very good success has been recorded in the area of migration control and the corresponding strategic advice in the Balkans. I think it is good that the location of this centre will continue to exist in Austria. It can be seen that Austria is a very good ground for diplomatic relations and for the development of solutions to international problems, because many other international organisations and NGOs are also located in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19329	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19347	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Minister, the present materials are consensusaries, whether they are changes in the state border or the better visibility of the border routes to our neighbours, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Czech Republic or Hungary, the conclusion of a contract with the Swiss Confederation or the regulation for our traditional sports guards' associations and associations as regards our neighbouring country Germany, in particular Bavaria. We will agree to this matter. On this occasion I would also like to stress that not only in the traditional shooter associations and sports association, but also in our home country the club life is an excellent one. I would like to join all of the volunteer officials and Officials thank you very much for this. Well-functioning associations are also a guarantee of our community. That is why I believe that all its members must be thanked very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] If we all confess to the clubs, I invite colleagues from the government groups to take care of the financial resources of the associations. Most subsidies get the clubs from the municipalities. With this in mind, Minister, I ask you to also in the government to ensure that the Austrian communities have more money in the future. Good evening! Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19389	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19408	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I also greet God to the representatives of the shooters at the gallery, to the National Council other than Dr. Gottfried Feurstein, to the president of the German Schützenbund Mr. Ambacher and to the regional commander of the Tyrolean Schützen Hofrat Dr. Sarnthein. As a Tyrolean, we know – and I think many others know that too – that shooting has a great tradition. Many celebrations, celebrations to church events and secular events are revived and designed by the shooters. So the shooters bring culture, they bring customs, they promote companionship in the village, and maintain community, but they also preserve spiritual values. At a time when egoism is continuing, it is important to build up counterpoles, and the shooters and the guards are trying to promote solidarity in society. With this agreement between Austria and Bavaria, there is mutual recognition and mutual possibilities. A long-standing desire of the shooters is being fulfilled, it is a signal to the Community and to the partnership. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pendl, too, has already thanked him. The grateful work of the officials who have been working for many years on this issue within the Community is not a matter of course. Protectiveness contributes accordingly with hard work. I would like to make one more observation: The shooters are not only about weapons, but – and this may be a little bit of an expression today – it is also about the fact that the shooters contribute a lot to social and economic understanding and make for ecclesial celebrations and celebrations. They represent a modern union that connects the past, present, and future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As an active shooter, I thank you on behalf of the 233 Tyrolean companies, the 15 000 active Tyrolean traditional guards and the many officials at Federal Minister Strasser for his commitment and wish the shooter all the best for the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19454	The next item is the speech by Mr Dobnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19474	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The International Centre for Migration Policy Development – in short: ICMPD – with its seat in Vienna is an organisation with the aim of promoting international cooperation in the field of migration policy and migration research. This organization was founded by Austria and Switzerland in 1993 under the then Minister of Interior Franz Löschnak. Since then, it has been doing important work in the study of current and potential migration flows in Europe, pursuing very closely the situation in the countries of origin of migrants and also examining possibilities for better detection and control of emerging migration movements. Furthermore, the Institute deals with asylum issues, irregular migration, measures against tow and the development of information projects in various countries. All these issues and topics are of great importance in the current political debate, as new solutions are urgently needed. A key priority area of the ICMPD is broad transnational cooperation. Not least, the success of this organisation in its field also shows that, in addition to Switzerland and Austria, Hungary, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Sweden have joined and Croatia, Poland, Portugal and Slovakia are preparing their accession. Today's ratification will, first of all, bring about a state agreement under the original administrative contract, second, abolish the deadline and third Vienna will be the head office of the organization. In particular, the ICMPD has already produced concrete results for Austrian domestic policy, in the form of the first Austrian migration and integration report 2003, which was launched at the initiative of this institution. This report represents an important and indispensable contribution to the scientific reorganisation of immigration to Austria and the social integration of the foreign population living in Austria. The International Centre for Migration Policy Development is now a crucial part of European migration research and cooperation. His work also provides an important basis for decision-making for national and European internal policies. That is why it is a proper step in the right direction to agree to this ratification today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19515	The next item is Mrs Stadler's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19533	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear guests at the gallery! This agreement between Austria and Germany, which my previous speakers have already discussed in detail, is an important step and, above all, a great relief for traditional shooter associations. Mr Weinzinger, I would like to mention that nothing has changed in the Waffengesetz. No matter where the shooters are, whether in Germany or in Austria, the respective arms law applies, and the weapons have been carefully kept and strictly secured. – Perhaps you will listen to me a little, because I think your statement has shown that you have very little knowledge of the protection! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Already 28 years ago, there was a platform foundation of the shooters of the Alpine region, and at all meetings there has been a great deal of commitment. There is a common history between Tyrol and Bavaria for centuries, and many political representatives are holding the importance of the community of shooters in this region. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in times of globalisation, it is necessary to note that man is not globalised, but that he needs his home. The term “home” has made a new career with the shooters. The shooters, through all their activities, have made a very important contribution to securing this centuries-old custom. The shooters see themselves as a binding element between people in the region, but also between cultures, and the shooters also ensure that this age-old tradition is developed and not forgotten. Above all, they also ensure that the next generation finds an intact home and remains it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of my speech, I would like to thank our Federal Minister, who recognized the value of protection. He has established this agreement with the German Minister of the Interior. Mr Federal Minister, I thank you for the rapid, successful initiative in the name of the shooters in the Alpine region, especially in the name of all Tyrolean shooters!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19578	Next item is the report by Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19597	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Appreciated guests at the gallery! Imagine, you're a shooter in Kleinwalsertal in Vorarlberg, and you want to join your team on a national protection festival in Landle. They have to be across the German border and some bureaucratic obstacles have to be overcome. They need a European Firearms Pass for all members, and that means time and money, and it is not to be seen that such obstacles exist, especially if you want to go to a meeting in your own country! Through this agreement on the mutual recognition of documents for the taking away of firearms and ammunition, it is now thanks to God. As a Vorarlberger I am very glad that we have now succeeded! I'm glad. that Exnational Councillor Dr. Gottfried Feurstein, the Bundesschützenmeister, and his colleague from Germany, Mr. Ambacher, are also here today to be personally involved when this agreement, which has a long history of origin – since 1999 has been negotiated – is decided. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This means a clear relief for our shooters. I would also like to thank Mr Strasser, who was able to convince his German counterparts that this is very important for us, especially for the federal states of Vorarlberg, Tirol and Salzburg. I am pleased that this bureaucracy now has an end, that it is associated with less time and that there are fewer obstacles to maintaining this traditional and cultural exchange.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19639	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. The places have to be taken, because we have a very comprehensive vote. First of all, we are voting on each of the Committee's proposals. We come to the vote on the draft Constitutional Act on the course of the State border between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany in the border section ‘Salzach’, in Sections I and II of the border section ‘Scheibelberg-Bodensee’ and in parts of the border section ‘Innwinkel’, together with title and entry in 5 of the supplements. Since this draft law is a Federal Constitutional Act within the meaning of Article 3(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, I shall first of all determine, within the meaning of paragraph 82(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of this Treaty with the Czech Republic, with which the Treaty on the common border of the State of 21 January 1989 was signed. In December 1973, the approval shall be granted in 91 of the Supplements, together with the amendments to points 1 and 2 of Section II. In view of the constitutional provisions mentioned above, I shall first, within the meaning of Rule 82(2) (1) of the Rules of Procedure, determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the conclusion of the present State Treaty to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request made by the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of this Treaty with the Czech Republic on amendments to the course of the common national border and the amendments to which Article 1 of which is constitutional, to be approved in 118 of the Supplements. In view of the constitutional provision mentioned above, I shall first, within the meaning of Rule 82(2) (1) of the Rules of Procedure, determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the conclusion of the present State Treaty to give approval to a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. In addition, we shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Internal Affairs within the meaning of Article 49(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act that the procurement of Appendices 1 to 10 of this Treaty shall be effected by the fact that they are imposed for the duration of the validity of the Treaty for public access during the official hours, namely: (a) (b) Appendices 1, 2, 3 and 4 to the Office of the Austrian Federal Government, (c) Appendices 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 to the Office of the Lower Austrian Government and (d) Appendices 1, 2 and 3 to the Rohrbach Survey Office, (e) Appendice 4 to the Freistadt Survey Office, (f) Appendices 5, 6,7, 8 and 9 to the Gmünd Survey Office and (g) Appendix 10 to the Gänserndorf Survey Office. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. This means that we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 6 of the supplements. As this draft concerning a Federal Constitutional Act on changes in the course of the State border between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic is a Federal Constitutional Law within the meaning of Article 3(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, I first of all note the presence of the constitutional number of Members. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 7 of the Supplements. As this draft concerning a Federal Constitutional Act on Changes in the History of the State Border between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary in Subsections C II and C IV (regulated Pinka and regulated Strem) is a Federal Constitutional Act within the meaning of Article 3(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, I first of all define the presence of the constitutional number of Members. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of this Treaty with the Republic of Hungary. on amendments and additions to the Treaty in order to maintain the common border and to regulate the related issues of 31 December. of 29 October 1964, as amended by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, as amended by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. In April 1987, together with the installations of which Articles 8, 9, 11, 13 and 14 are constitutional, the approval shall be granted in 44 of the Supplements. With regard to the above-mentioned constitutional provisions, I shall first put it back within the meaning of § 82(2). Point 1 of the Rules of Procedure establishes the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the conclusion of the present State Treaty to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs within the meaning of Article 49(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act that the procurement of Appendices 1 to 9 of the present Treaty should be effected by the fact that, for the duration of the validity of the contract for public access during the hours of office with the Office of the Burgenlander Landesgebung, the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying and the Survey Office Oberwart. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreements with the Federal Republic of Germany on the mutual recognition of documents for the taking up of firearms and ammunition by members of traditional shooter associations and sports guards in 9 of the Supplements to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is largely accepted. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty between the Swiss Confederation, represented by the Federal Office for Refugees, and the Republic of Austria, represented by the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs, Section III, on the establishment and operation of the International Centre for Migration Policy Development in Vienna in 219 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give the approval to give a corresponding sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the present Treaty on the Third Amendment of the Treaty establishing and running the International Centre for Migration Policy Development in 220 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall therefore vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the Treaty between the Swiss Confederation, the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on the amendment and extension of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. It was signed in Vienna on 1 June 1993. on the establishment and operation of the International Centre for Migration Policy Development in Vienna in 221 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the Treaty between the Swiss Confederation, the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on the amendment of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. In June 1993 in Vienna, a contract on the establishment and operation of the International Centre for Migration Policy Development in Vienna was signed to grant approval in 222 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. 16. Point Report of the Committee on Budgets on the accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany (III-44 p.b.) for 2002 (332 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19854	We arrive at the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19879	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The 2002 national accounts show that the year 2002 was the year of blue-black-black economic greys I, that 2002 was the year of economic instability. Finally, the German government dissolved Blue-Black I. It was also the year of economic downturn, but it was also the year of quota targets without any overall economic policy conception. It was the year of quota targets zero deficit, zero inflation – with one word, it was the year of politics of double zeros or the politics of zeros. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In reality, the foundations for the economic stagnation in Austria were laid. The motto was: Save on devil come out! Public investment fell below 1 percent of gross domestic product; earlier, it was 3 to 4 percent to secure the economic location. Only between €500 million and €600 million were incurred in the ASFINAG alone. This is an amount that is actually far below the normal of what is necessary in order to maintain the standard. Energy investment was also well below the average with a tenth of what was otherwise usual. This also meant that the municipalities and the countries were sustainablely undermined in their funding scope. The economic growth recorded there was mainly export-oriented. That is something you must hold on to in this context. But what was particularly remarkable in 2002 is that the debt of the state has reached a new peak. Debt rose from € 133 billion in 1999 to € 145.7 billion in 2002. This means a 10 percent increase. Considering only the league, there was an increase of 15 percent. What has been speeded up for us all day ago in terms of debt policy is not true in the back and in the front! What is particularly important is the impact on the labour market. There there was an increase in unemployment from 203 000 to 233 000. This corresponds to an increase of 15 percentage points, ladies and gentlemen. This is really the scandal this year! If you look at the job application, it has risen from seven to eleven, i.e. 11 unemployed people have now come to an open position. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The economic historians will identify this financial statements in 2002 as a milestone or a source of funding for the economic downturn in Austria under Blue Black I. We will therefore not vote in favour of this report by the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19936	The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e19954	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would really have been surprised if Mr Moser had found something positive about this federal billing in 2002. [[Abg. Murauer: Although it is difficult!]] – Although it is difficult to represent him as negative as he did. There you have to be almost an artist. Ladies and gentlemen! The only thing that would be critical of this financial statements in 2002 is that we are dealing with it only now, as the data of the year 2003 are already known. A federal accounts account is ultimately the balance sheet of a Finance Minister, is the balance sheet of government activity, is accountable report. Finally, it is always said that the budget is the policy cast into figures. These policies, these figures and facts stand out in every comparison in Europe. Let's take a look around! What does it look like to those who are so praised in Germany? Red-green is always this pattern example. – They would be happy if they could only get close to our data. So this is a success report from the Federal Government! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Moser said that the year 2002 was the year of saving on devils coming out. It was the year of false forecasts and, so to speak, the decline in the economy. – Yes, it was the year of false forecasts of the opposition, ladies and gentlemen! Or should I read to you what Mr Matznetter meant at that time – and that is still mentioned in terms of credibility? He said that the federal financial situation was far worse than presented. With 1.6% of GDP, a high level of indebtedness would occur again. He has precisely oriented himself to numbers and data. – That was just when it was about forming a coalition again. . On the basis of these figures, the budget could not be treated in a serious manner. Those who have really been wrong in the figures, facts and facts and in the forecasts were Mr Matznetter! He is sometimes referred to as an expert. Since that time, however, I have become somewhat insecure, although I do not want to explore the fact that he really strives and sometimes also presents powerful verbal, rhetorical arguments. But on the basis of the results and its forecasts, I would be careful with the term “expert”. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing was also stated: This exact budget execution, which is better than forecast, than estimated, is essentially also a merit of the countries and communities. More, Mr State Secretary, I do not want to say today about the situation of the communities, but it is important to me that we point this out. Especially nice was something: Mr Matznetter and colleague Gusenbauer were unisono's opinion to fear – from the perspective of 2002 – that the blue letter from Brussels will arrive in Austria in 2003. If you have seen the blue letter in Europe, you know it better! Austria has also received a letter, but those of recognition! This is a good example, although, as mentioned above, the Court of Auditors also clearly points out that further reform measures are necessary. – Yes, we are committed to it, but we are on the right track!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20000	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20018	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I should also like to welcome the staff of the Court of Auditors who have been published, and for the reason that I would like to stress in my first comment that the documentary work and the work of the Court of Auditors' statutory audits and recalculations – if you want to express it in a vulgar way – really find a form of presentation here that is getting better and better. You just have to recognize that. It is not only that there is work inside, but also that the clear effort – with success by the way – can be seen to ultimately produce a good representation for the house here, but also for the public as a whole. And that's important. [[Congratulations on the Greens, the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] – I think that is where all the political groups can join. That's right and important. On the matter itself. I do not want to make a direct prognosis to the Federal Government, if, for example, according to Article 3 of the Federal Finance Act 2002, a growth rate of 4.1 percent – nominally, well-notified at that time! – was accepted; in fact, it was only 2.2 percent. That's a serious difference. Although I am surprised that there is a double budgeting here again and again – because this is also a problem of such a far-reaching perspective – but basically – my God! – you don’t always have to guess everything exactly. For these deviations, one could agree that if the budget is running and written, the execution will become more difficult just because of this statement. However, if we already know the figures of the year 2003 in the raw state now – Mr Auer has already pointed out – and if we start the target Ist comparison again, there is one thing that has occurred over the years, since I have been watching it anyway: There is a tendency – a hundred percent I do not know – since 2000 – otherwise please correct me, Mr State Secretary, or Mr President of the Court of Auditors, if you would like to comment here – that we are always a little, sometimes even much better than the forecast, as far as the Maastricht deficit is concerned, at least that of the largest aggregate. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: Very careful budgeting!]] That is what we can say now, and I also expected it to be a particularly careful budgeting. Look, I have a pretty slow suspicion that this has a certain classification – yet! – simple and gripping therefore to be able to say in the end: [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State, Dr. Finz, sitting on the Government Bank]] Well, we're much better anyway! I am not sure, however, whether this would be so consistent with the principles of budgetary clarity and with the principle of budgetary transparency if this suspicion were confirmed. But sponge over it, better than vice versa. That is what you will have thought, but a certain marketing component may not be able to agree to these systematic overestimations of the deficit, at least in their effect. Whether you intend to do so, I do not know that I would be quite open to the Minister for Finance. It's really not easy, you have to admit. On the comparisons of the international rankings, I would like to say that Germany is always trying to do so – now you have provoked me to speak for three minutes, Mr Auer: What if, in the 1990s, Austria had, as it were, merged with the economy of Slovakia? But I do not want this to be misunderstood for other reasons. You have to note that this is a special situation in Germany. Chancellor Kohl already had the greatest need with it, and the problem is not in one, two years away from the table, but moves over ten, twenty years. One of the big mistakes – let us now remember this economic and fiscal policy! – it was that for political reasons and euphoria and similar things there was more a one-to-one exchange action from so-called Eastmark to the Westmark. Where is that supposed to lead to more problems? That's what they're messing with. No one can disapprove of that! But I do not see at all that you must especially break the staff of the Christian-Christian-Christian-Christian-Democratian-Sister Party, because all of the causes are those if you want. For example, Lafontaine pointed out that this could only lead to what it eventually led to. By the way, because we are already at the tax quotas and in the tax reliefs that have been addressed today: If we wanted to reach the tax quotas of the Federal Republic of Germany – not that I require, but only to get the comparison – then our budget would look quite different. On the other hand, this tax reduction or so-called tax reform is a Mickey Mouse project. They have a lower tax rate by many percentage points. That's why you stop using these unsavory comparisons! If we had a revenue structure such as there, we would have to have a budget surplus that had grown. Of course, nothing can be seen far and wide. So finish with these unsavory comparisons! It is much more interesting to clarify once a large-scale misunderstanding on the current account balance. It has always been explained to us that the current account deficit in 2002 – and here in this Committee report it is particularly appreciated on the occasion of the financial statements – was not such a thing, but that it was a current account surplus, especially this year. The general economic contexts explain this. Why was that? – Because we did not lose as much in export as we did in domestic demand. This is a clear indication of the fact that we have pushed the internal economy while exporting has drawn the economic growth that you still have to adopt as particularly good. But this is not a merit of this federal government, but the opposite is the case: Domestic demand has been significantly reduced, and exports have been semi-trailed. Now I ask you: What does that have to do with your policy? I can only say: This result has been achieved despite your policy! You can see this if you want to interpret the statistics correctly. Once again it was shot quite clearly past the target. You still believe you've met the right thing. But be careful that you don't reach the arrows from behind! At some point we will have to have serious economic discussions in this House too. If it is not possible in the morning, during the television broadcast, at least now. One last point: EU comparison. – There has now been another ranking, which was in fact none. The ranking, which has now been presented, has, I believe, been referring to 2003. It is true that the EU does not make this ranking at all, the Commission refuses it, for good reasons, simply because it does not make much sense to just count the rankings together. The fact is that at certain levels, i.e. where it is concerned, how low or how high unemployment is or how high anything else is, for example real GDP growth, is not so bad at all. That's right. But there are key indicators, given that, when we look at the changes in these indicators, we have to find that we are getting worse. There are three indicators, one of which is one of the worst in Europe. This includes, for example, the change in the employment rate in recent years. These are very striking indicators for the future capacity of an economy, for the security of the pension system you are constantly talking about, and for similar things more. That is, the level comparison is not so bad at all – but that is the standard of many years that was built there – but the changes, the level comparison from one year to the next, already show a completely different picture. If you make the effort and read it, you will see that we are nowhere in the front, but are among the most important indicators. This should give rise to concern and not excessive praise. I'd be glad if we could at least agree. Then you may also understand that we cannot agree to this billing with the national economic statements that have been presented for the time being, but without special resentment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20075	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20093	Mr President! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for the very good presentation of the accounts. It is very helpful for Members if: the figures are presented in such a good way. Thank you for that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My predecessors of the opposition were really hard to find something negative about this federal bill for the year 2002, because it really represents an excellent business card of government policy and, as I think, it expresses very well what has moved Karl-Heinz Grasser and the other ministers of this reform government in recent years. If you look at the figures, Mr Kogler, you have to admit: It is quite revolutionary in terms of the development of the public deficit, because while we still had a deficit of 2.3 percent in 1999, we were able to reduce the deficit to 0.2 percent in 2002. That's a huge success! The current account balance, which has already been honoured by the opposition today, has also been positive for the first time since 1990. One does not come around to compare one's own macroeconomic factors with the economic data in Europe. For example, if we take GDP growth in 2002 and compare it, we see that Austria is clearly above the European average published annually by the European Commission, at 1.4 percent. For example, Germany achieved only a GDP growth of 0.2 percent. Or: Our inflation rate is significantly below the average in Europe. The deficit has also been significantly lower in Austria at 0.2 percent than the European average at 2.2 percent. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These are essential factors that encourage us from the FPÖ Group to continue to support the reform path of the Austrian Federal Government. We will continue this consistent path of stabilisation in the interests of European monetary policy and financial policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20151	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20169	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! It is beyond dispute that this budget deficit is moving in 2002 in the above-mentioned order of 0.2 percent. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's great! Or?]] One has constantly spoken of the zero deficit and predicted this, but honestly one has to say that this zero deficit has not been achieved. [[Abg. Scheibner: 0,2 percent?- Oh, my God!]] According to the praises that have been expressed by the Members of the Government here today, I would like to give a few facts to explain how this billing has been achieved. Let us see how this result could be achieved! [[Abg. Scheibner: But that's not your serious thing that you're still saying that!]] [[Abg. ==References====External links== Very serious!]] What were the key points of distribution policy? – It has already been mentioned that the countries and communities have contributed a great deal to what is right, but the end of the flag rod has not yet been achieved, as the communities, as we know, have partly become financial difficulties. Many communities can no longer compensate for their budgets. If I remember that, especially with regard to the tax reform before us, the communities should also be asked to cash back, I must say: I am eager to say what the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has to say about this. He has already said so in the light of his strict refusal to ask the municipalities to pay for a tax reform. However, an essential point that is crucial to this conclusion of the accounts was ultimately the fact that this financial statement was financed exclusively through tax increases and fees. This is what the President of the Court of Auditors has said in the Committee on Budgets. The amount of the budget top was almost exclusively on the revenue side. This has never been a load wave for people. Unfortunately, you have not spoken about what measures have been taken. For example: Half-life of the worker's allowance, taxation of holiday compensation, higher car tax, motorway vignette, higher electricity tax, higher tobacco tax, self-retaining of health insurance. These were essentially the measures that led to this result, and they only took the “little ones. ” At the same time, you have carried out a proper redistribution at this Federal Accounts. Thus, gifts of a billion € were distributed to entrepreneurs alone. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Secretary of State Dr. Finz.]] Mr State Secretary, you laugh so cool here. It's true! Perhaps you will find this ridiculous, but the drink tax with 230 million €, the new solution for advertising, the holiday allocation, all these are points that you have given directly to the economy. You have taken it from the working people and you have given it to the company – even if you do not want to hear it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we say social democrats, ladies and gentlemen: That's not the way we want to go! This path is unfair, this path is unfair. He hits the weakest in our society, and therefore we will not agree to this federal billing.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20282	The next item is the speech by Mr Kurzbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20300	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wimmer, you have referred to the Court of Auditors' report and you mean that this budget has been renovated solely by means of tax increases, i.e. revenue on the one hand. To do this, I'll tell you: There is a clear passage in the Court of Auditors report, which points out that expenditure-related measures have already taken place in 2002. Since 2000, a total of €1.1 billion has been saved on the expenditure side. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This federal accounts for the year 2002 is certainly a milestone in the history of budget policy, it is a success story. This success story has already begun in 2000, namely the start of this government coalition of Black and Blue with German Chancellor Schüssel at the forefront. At that time, there was a change in politics, but above all in budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We discussed the tax reform at the item on the agenda today. This tax reform would, Ladies and gentlemen, not possible, especially not possible to this extent; €3 billion of discharge would not be possible if the budget had not been consolidated on a sustainable basis. Now a few numbers: According to the 2001 financial statement, there was a surplus of 0.3 percent for the first time after 30 years. Now, according to the 2002 financial statements, there is a slight decrease of 0.1 percent. Let us look at the EU average: a minus of 2.2 percent! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This good result is despite continued economic weakness and despite the flood disaster in 2002. Today, of course, there has already been a reference to the positive development, to the surpluses of the countries and the municipalities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now also a reference to the tax rate: In 1999, the tax rate was 44.4 percent, and despite the reorganisation of the budget, there is currently a tax rate of 44.2 percent. By the end of this legislative period in 2006, this quota will be reduced to 42 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This budget has a new quality. In the last few days, our Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser and our State Secretary Alfred Finz, who are two professionals in their metier, have also presented the preliminary invoice for 2003. In this context, a daily newspaper is published on 27 May. January to read the following: ‘Less budget deficit as expected. Grass becomes ‘EU pattern student’. Austria's state finances remain stable despite poor economic conditions. In 2000, Austria had a very high budget deficit as the EU closure light. In the meantime, we are in the front middle of the line.” The ranking of the ‘EU 25’, including the enlargement countries of Austria in third place. [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] [[Abg. Murauer: That's enough!]] That's enough!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20355	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20392	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, as always serious, that's no question! [[I should like to thank the honourable Member, Mr Gradwelt.]] I also give my colleague, Mr Kurzbauer, the right to say that, with the start of the blue-black German government, a trend change has taken place in Austria's policy, especially in the area of budgetary policy. Only I believe that this trend change, as mentioned by my previous speakers, was linked not only to gratifying facts but also to very problematic developments, especially on the labour market in Austria. For example, since the start of the Federal Government, the unemployment rate has grown by 70 000 to 80 000 people, and the budgetary forecasts we are making are expected to increase further in the year to come. Of course, it has been tried to postpone the cost problem by means of retirement through the massive reduction of active officials, and this also has a somewhat positive effect on 2002 in this federal accounts. Now another note: We used to talk about the Maastricht budget, but now we are only talking about the general government budget. There has been a change in the language system. Of course, the Maastricht budget is not as encouraging as it was presented in this debate. There are structural problems which the Court of Auditors repeatedly points out in its report. There is a lack of sustainability in decisions. We all know that, especially by changing the conditions for our institutions in the municipalities, there are still cuts ahead of the countries and especially the communities, which remind me of the shedding of blood and tears. You don't know how that's going to happen yet. Are there rationalizations in the communities in the form of communities being grouped together? I do not know what the Federal Government will have on ideas to deal with these problems, but one thing is clear: The communities will no longer be able to bring this reserve, which they have now so to speak, into the future, and we are eager to see how the next reports of the Federal Government on the 2004 budget results will look, for example. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20435	Mr Finz, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20453	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! Mr Moser has given a budget presentation – probably someone has put it up – and has disappeared. [[Call the SPÖ:Na, na!]] It is no longer there and therefore does not have the opportunity to listen to what the budget really looks like, and I am very, very sorry. I'm just talking about the Maastricht budget of the federal government. What did it look like under a Minister of Finance Edlinger in 1999? – In 1999 the deficit for the federal government amounted to €4.8 billion. ==References====External links== On February the new Federal Government joined – this deficit was reduced to €3.4 billion. In 2001, the deficit continued to be reduced to €1.4 billion, and in 2002, the year we are talking about, despite the continuing weak economic development and the flood disaster, which appears to be already in Forgetfulness – a slight rise to €1.7 billion. So: Compared with 1999 – at the time there was a deficit of €4.8 billion – a decline to €1.7 billion. And such a thing will be defamed!Unknown term type: "%s".? You really have to be able to recognize figures and facts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As a general rule – Maastricht budget – the deficit was 0.1 percent. We have practically been able to maintain a balanced general budget since 2001. How did this come about? – We have made effective personnel reforms between 2000 and 2002. ==References== ==References== On December 11, 2002, we saved 11 733 full employment equivalents, which is 6.9 percent for staff. We have implemented structural reforms. We have set up a central procurement system, where today €700 million is available annually and only through the summary, through which concentration is at least €29 million annually. We have embarked on a university reform that has been widely confirmed by constitutional law, as you know – and we now have record numbers among students – in order to better match the idea of autonomy on the one hand, but also to bring more efficiency into student life. We have brought economic support into a new form with the establishment of the Austrian Economic Service GesmbH and finally we have taken into account a demand from the Court of Auditors to concentrate the funding measures. We have launched the 2000 pension reform: an increase in the early retirement age by 18 months in a step-by-step form, and this reform alone saves €1.3 billion per year. Although we have put in place many measures that have enabled expenditure to be reduced, we have spent more in other areas, because they are socially important. So we have spent more on research and development. We spent €4 billion in the years 2000 to 2002; compared to the period 1997 to 1999, it is €600 million more. Mr Moser has also said that we did not make any investments. . We have made very investments. We have expanded our investments, including BIG, railway and ASFINAG. We started an IT offensive in schools and universities. We have made an integration of the disabled into the labour market. I should also like to remind you of the reparation relating to NS forced workers, as well as the introduction of child benefit. Due to the weak economic situation, there were two economic packages – in December 2001 and in September 2002 – and finally there were the flood relief measures in 2002, which extended further to 2003. I think that shows that we are taking a completely new course in budgetary policy. We had found a difficult starting point, but you can be assured that we are improving the situation and that is why we can now make a massive tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20493	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20511	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary, I should like to start by expressing my thanks for what you have done on the part of the Court of Auditors. It is, as I believe, very, very clear and easy to read, so that we can draw the relevant conclusions from it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I will only limit myself to a few numbers; many have already been mentioned. We know economic development, also those of our neighbouring countries and also of the international one. Austria is quite good in this comparison, as I mean. We achieved an increase in gross domestic product nominally by 2.2 percent in 2002. The real increase in gross domestic product is 1 percent, i.e. 0.3 percent more than in the previous year. A figure that I very much want to point out is the balance of the current account, which for the first time since 1990 has achieved a positive value, namely € 1.57 billion. We know that the tax and tax rate in Austria is high. However, we also know that consolidation of the budget had to be started, and I am pleased that a reduction in the overall tax burden by 1 percent was achieved compared to 2001. The Court of Auditors notes that the consolidation of the budget in 2001 was mainly due to revenue, but also explicitly notes that the development in 2002 was positive on the basis of the measures taken in the years before and expenditure savings have been achieved through measures adopted in the years before. The Court of Auditors still considers structural consolidation measures to be a command of the hour in order to achieve actual and sustainable budget consolidation. This, as I believe, is, of course, a challenge for this black and blue federal government, which will also take up and accept it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Moser tried to conjure up the decline of the Austrian economy on the basis of the federal accounts. He has certainly avoided making international comparisons. If he had done so, he might have been embarrassed to have to praise this federal government, and he did not want to. I am also saving myself from these international comparisons, especially since they are well known and often employed in this House, but I would like to point out that that measure, which the Federal Republic of Germany is now setting, is an advanced tax reform, precisely the opposite of what this Austrian Federal Government is about to do with the tax reform, the second stage. We have brought about an economic recovery with our measures in Austria. Thus, it is to be expected – and this is not a harsh idea, but rather a corresponding APA message – that this preferred tax reform in the Federal Republic of Germany will reduce economic growth by about half a percent. I am glad that we have a reform government in Austria, which is also strong in implementation – for the benefit of Austria and its citizens. These will have more money in the pocket, and the Austrian companies will be encouraged to make investments in this way – in my opinion, quite a positive prospect.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20566	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20585	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I'm looking for the president in advance for a few seconds of tolerance. My first comment does not refer to the billing, but to the political culture in this House. During the previous debate, Mr Stoisits formulated a few words on greetings in Croatian. As a result, Mr Klaus Wittauer said something – I do not repeat it – and he said: I don't understand this dialect. Only to help and improve the political culture and citizenship of Mr Wittauer and perhaps others: Croatian, Slovenian and other languages are languages of the Republic of Austria, the ethnic groups of the Republic of Austria. And not only because I speak one of these mother tongues – fatherly language in reality – but Slovenian, I ask that he also take note of this in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] A short while ago, Mr Finz. – They were very angry and dared to compare Edlinger – Grasser. Mr Finz, you yourself know that the debt was higher then – yes. However, the capital, the assets of the Republic of Austria, the property of the Republic of Austria and the reputation of the Republic of Austria were unevenly higher than under a Minister of Finance Grasser and under this government. And what distinguishes this government from the other government and, in particular, from Mr Edlinger's Minister of Finance: The Republic of Austria was creditable in many respects. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grossruck: Now we don't need a credit anymore!]] Social security was a value, and the economic location Austria did not have to be talked attractively, but was attractive. These are the most important differences in just one example. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But if you give your badly sung song of protest and opposition speech the best, I, Mr President, stupidly lead your colleagues from Tyrol. Herwig van Staa is an ÖVP college. I quote Herwig van Staa, who says, on this financial statement, on this budgetary policy and the way in which the federal government has tried to reduce the budget deficit: This approach, countries and communities to participate in less revenue, but not in more revenue, is contrary to the spirit of financial compensation. - Quote. By the way, Mr Finz, I am surprised that he says this as a municipal politician and ÖVP partyman of a community, even though it is not the large municipality of Vienna: There were no political negotiations either. That is to say, the Minister of Finance is not only talking about home affairs, but also when it comes to very serious partnership negotiations with regard to the financial balance between countries and municipalities. What you have added to the countries and municipalities, the colleagues of my group have already done. They starve the communities. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: That's not true!]] They put the countries in the situation to write minus numbers in the budgets. Why do the investments fail? – Because the municipalities in Austria were the best and most credible investors. Why, then, is there evidence of an investment-minus? This is the negative outcome of your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Finz, and then you still have the chuzpe, the countries and municipalities that you exploit and take out of, also to burden with tasks and achievements! I would just like to remind you of the capping of federal social and health funds. They think – but hopefully it doesn't matter – of the new social assistance, child benefit until 6. Year of life, and I recall the lack of resources for flood protection because you mentioned the flood disaster earlier. Mr Finz, perhaps You are a longer-term Secretary of State than the minister of finance still in office, but both of you are entitled to: Go back to the political culture of conversation, partnership with the countries and municipalities! Take up negotiations and conduct a policy that rules and does not dictate! In this sense, I wish the countries a willingness to talk, and I wish you a lot of success and courage, because these discussions with your colleagues, especially the ÖVP on the country side, will demand a lot of courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20673	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20694	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Trunk, I think you have taken the wrong speech, because you have spoken on the billing and not on the federal billing. But you certainly know the saying: Save in time, then you're in trouble! The German Chancellors and finance ministers you have put forward certainly did not know this statement, because the better the economy was, the more these rulers have spent. Only since the year 2000 has been saved, and this is a fact that everyone is probably aware of – including the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] In 2001, there was the first surplus in the budget for 30 years. You have to break that on the tongue: for 30 years! That too is a fact that everyone is aware of. And this conclusion for the year 2002 also proves once again that this federal government continues to reorganise state finances. We have de facto reached the zero deficit – the Secretary of State has already mentioned it – and this was a very difficult undertaking in this environment. They all know that the flood broke a deep hole into the budget in 2002. This federal government is thanks to God and has really supported the people concerned. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] - I don't understand! You sit too far back, in the place your party has assigned you. If you were better, you'd be sitting on the front. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The economy also did not want to jump so properly in 2002, but we all expect this to be the case in this year. The OECD expects economic growth of 1.8 percent in the euro countries in 2004 and an economic growth of 2.5 percent in 2005. While there is a flaw in Germany and across Europe, we have achieved very, very much in Austria: The tax rate has fallen, growth has increased slightly and is above the EU average, inflation has fallen, and exports have finally exceeded imports. Many Heads of Government – including many social democrats – would be happy if they could have such figures. And this European comparison makes us sure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The tax reform, which now stands on rail, will also contribute to Austria's continuing progress. With this reform, we have relieved the families that really need it. With this reform, we have secured Austria's economic location, creating jobs for our people and especially for young people. Overall, this budget path is a good way – and the Court of Auditors has confirmed this – because it is also eligible for funding. And I am firmly convinced that at the end of this legislative period or perhaps a year after that, we will achieve the zero deficit again.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20775	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. Desirable time: 3 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20794	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Mrs Lentsch, I agree that your statements have a little aroused me, but I am trying to answer them calmly. You may have forgotten that some of the representatives who have made the red and black coalition over the past few years have made sure that money is also spent, thus providing for higher debt and a higher deficit, are still sitting on the government bank today – one of the most important points: Wolfgang Schüssel is his name. Perhaps, Mrs Lentsch, Mr Auer will inform you about this: If you take a look at the budgets and billing accounts of the past, you will see that your current Federal Chancellor has been one of the biggest debtors, the Chief Publisher! This, Mrs Lentsch, in order to do the right thing, should also be taken note of. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If we are already in the truth, Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask you first of all, since this has been noted to me all day after we have been able to spend some time with each other – that if you sit on the government bank, you have the opportunity to always speak in every debate, especially in accordance with the Bureau decision, while the speeches of the Members of Parliament are leaving out of your interlocutory calls from the government bank. If you're already making calls, I really want to ask you: Stay with the truth, Mr. State Secretary! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Brosz.]] In one of your calls to a colleague, you said that it was social-democratic finance ministers responsible for the fact that this had been done in addition to the drinking tax. The truth, Mr. State Secretary and Mr. ÖVP-Obmann of Vienna,is that if this passage of the beverage tax had been included in the Accession Treaty, we would have had no problems. [[Call the SPÖ:No longer long!]] Who was chief negotiator? – I do not assume that Alois Mock, a well-known Austrian foreign minister of the ÖVP, suddenly wants to count on the social democracy that “Mister Europe” wants to make a mistake! – Mr State Secretary, I think you have to go inside. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to ask you, Mr State Secretary, to stick to the truth. You have just noted in your remarks what rigorous investments have been made. Where? – Please drive across our country, through this Republic, like many of the Members present here, and then show me the investments you made in the years 2001, 2002 or the following years. You've talked about it, but you don't have anything at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: Yes, the West Motorway!]] Mr State Secretary! If you're talking about the West Motorway, I'll ask you: Is there not an ASFINAG that will implement and finance it? What does this have to do with your budget and your announcements? It is about public investment, not outsourced areas! So stick to the facts, stay with the facts, Mr State Secretary – also in your calls! You may refer to the Rules of Procedure at any time. And above all, Mr State Secretary: If you are talking about investment, you will also not be missed that in the last decades the municipal investments have made up two thirds of the public investment. How much can the municipalities still invest in their financial and tax policies, in their hunger of the municipalities? – Nothing, and this has an impact on the regional economy, and that is why we also have an economic growth problem. This may be a good thing, Mr State Secretary, but you have nothing to do with the people outside. Finally, I would like to say that in today's debate, I have missed the fact that you, Mr Auer, as a contentious mayor of the ÖVPs, are particularly appealing to this issue of localities. And something else went off to me: Another famous caller of the ÖVP, the mayor of Großruck, has not dedicated a four-liner to us on this issue of the underminement of municipal finances, nor an intermediate call. – I am disappointed, colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20881	The President of the Court of Auditors has now spoken. Please, Mr President. [[Abg. Grossruck: (in the direction of Abg. Ing. I will bring you the “Ode to the Communities”!]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e20920	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! In 2000, the Federal Government set itself the goal of achieving a zero deficit, calculated after Maastricht. And it is up to the Court of Auditors to assess whether the objective has been achieved or whether it has not been achieved. If you look at the data given by the Court of Auditors in the accounts, you have to say that the target has been missed, but is very short, namely, from 0.1 to 0.2 percent of the gross domestic product. So we can say that the objective has been almost achieved, and the Court of Auditors is not dissatisfied with that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Nor is it dissatisfied with how this objective was achieved in 2002, mainly through expenditure on the part of measures that have taken place. Otherwise, this was still in 2001, at that time mainly the measures taken by the parties contributed to the even more favourable result – that is, to a Maastricht surplus of 0.3 percent. I do not want to comment on the measures themselves – they are not undisputed; I would just like to mention the pension reform and the like here, for it is not the task of the Court of Auditors to assess the actions of the Federal Government, which it considers politically necessary to achieve its objective. Mainly for the Court of Auditors is whether the objective has been achieved or not. – This is the positive side. However, the Court of Auditors must note that the level of total debt – also calculated after Maastricht – was still very high in 2002. Even in 2003, as the last figures show, not much has changed; although there has been a slight reduction in total debt, we still remain significantly above the 60 percent reference value of gross domestic product at around 67 percent and in relation to other countries of the European Union in the lower third. Why is the total debt still so high, why does it fall only relatively low? This is primarily due to the fact that, unlike the overall deficit calculated after Maastricht, the federal budget deficit has been such in all recent years, far away from a zero deficit. This has to be said with all the emphasis. That is to say, in recent years, the Federal Budget has been, although it is expected to be added, always deficit-making, and because of this, a reduction in the overall debt after Maastricht is only possible very slowly. The deficit of the federal government – and this has been mentioned several times by previous speakers – has been offset by the positive behaviour of the countries and municipalities. However, the Court of Auditors considers that this should not remain permanent, and the Federal Budget should also be able to be balanced in the future. It should also be noted that certain taxes have increased in a way that should give rise to closer analyses. Although – and this has now been said to be positive – the tax rate fell by around 1% in 2002 compared with 2001 and, as the latest budget figures can be drawn, continued to fall in 2003. However, the Court of Auditors believes that it is still too high at around 43 to 44 percent. Measures should be taken here. But let me now spend some time on the individual types of tax and also on the total tax revenue of the federal government from 1999 to 2002; I deliberately choose the year 1999 – it was the last full year of the great coalition. There are, however, some data that should be discussed in more detail and which should also be made a subject of cause-related measures. In 2002, the total tax revenue of the federal government amounted to around €55 billion, 13 percent more than in 1999 – much higher than the inflation rate over the same period and much higher than the increase in gross domestic product. A tax burden has occurred here, which was disproportionate. In this period, wage tax increased by around 10 percent, sales tax by almost 7 percent, mineral oil tax by around 15 percent, and transport taxes as a whole by about 30 percent – a huge increase! I should also like to refer to the figures of the year 2003 which were mentioned by the Ministry of Finance only these days. I do so with certain reservations, for they have not yet been examined by the Court of Auditors, but I assume that they will be able to stand up to an examination in some way. There are also some interesting figures. However, as I have already said, the tax rate has fallen slightly from 2002 onwards, but it is remarkable that the tax rate is still too high, regardless of the fact that it is not so high. special economic situation, increased from €16.2 billion in 2002 to €16.9 billion in 2003. On the other hand, and this seems to me to be very remarkable, sales tax has fallen dramatically: from € 17.6 billion in 2002 to € 16.5 billion in 2003. In my opinion, further analysis would have to be made of why such a significant reduction in turnover tax has occurred. Because of these figures, there is now a very strange phenomenon: It was in 2003 the wage tax from income to turnover tax. And I have to say, I can't imagine that this would ever have been the case in recent years or decades. Sales tax was always the most profitable tax – in 2003 it was the wage tax. It can be assumed, therefore, that in 2003, mostly in the previous years, the taxpayers of wages have been very important to ensure that we have such a good budget performance. These figures also show, especially as far as wage tax is concerned, that to a small extent the cold progression has occurred. This should be taken into account, please, in all considerations for the forthcoming tax reform. High house! The Court of Auditors has always expressed the view that tax reform, tax reduction is necessary. We have been presented by the Federal Government in the last few days with a draft for such a tax reform. In view of the figures, particularly for wage tax in 2003, but also in 2002, it seems to me to be only legitimate to take due account of the taxpayers in this regard. If it is assumed that, as announced by the Federal Government, the taxpayers are to benefit about €1.1 billion from this tax reform, account should also be taken of the fact that in 2003 compared with 2002 the surplus of €700 million in wage tax was achieved by the cold progression, i.e. the actual benefits for the taxpayers are moving in a relatively narrow margin of time. In addition to this tax reform, which the Court of Auditors will, of course, take a very close look at in the review process, but it is necessary to continue the reform measures already implemented by the government, which have already taken place in recent years, which the Court of Auditors has shown positive results. Further administrative measures are needed and further measures are needed, in particular in the field of personnel. We should do everything we can to achieve a slim state – which is also a goal of the government. I don't want to be misunderstandingd. We do not want to have a weak state, but a slender state that has the necessary muscles to carry out those tasks that fall within the state's own competence. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] In the course of a tax reform – and the Court of Auditors will take a very close look at this – it seems to me, of course, to me what the counter-financing of this tax reform will look like, because it will depend on whether this tax reform will lead to new debt being incurred or that the expenditure-side measures are mainly in the administration. The Court of Auditors has always maintained its position in recent years. It has always been committed to achieving a reduction in the deficit and a reduction in total debt through targeted expenditure-side measures. I should also like to remind you of this: We will, and I suspect in the longer term, only have to pay about €6 billion each year alone at interest rates. It should be our concern, especially in the interests of taxpayers, that we reduce this burden from the past in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21042	The next speech is made by Mrs Stadler. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21060	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Mr Gradwelt has already left the hall, but I would like to say, as far as I can remember, that in the past German Chancellor and Minister of Finance SPÖ politicians were under SPÖ/ÖVP government. And if you now call Federal Chancellor Schüssel the biggest debtor at the time, that may be your own comfort definition of the SPÖ. One thing is clear and the fact is that the budget policy of the ÖVP/FPÖ government bears the manuscript of German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The 2002 national accounts show that the budget consolidation has been successfully implemented. Nevertheless, there was a weak economic situation in 2002, but in August 2002, the flood of the century called for a rapid package of measures, and all the forecasts predicted a deficit of about 1.5, this federal accounts show that there is a de facto zero deficit. This budget consolidation has been secured by a number of structural measures, particularly in those areas which in the past have led to high budget burdens. In addition to this budget consolidation, however, it has also succeeded in setting priorities. Public expenditure on research and development has been increased, social and social policy accents have been set. I'm just taking out one accent: the babysitting allowance with 1. January 2002 entered into force – initially rejected by all opposition politicians not to think away from all opposition politicians today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Accounting Board 2002 is a success story for all unknowings. And we, the government parties, but above all all all Austrians may be proud of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21109	The last speaker was Mr Keussnigg. He too speaks for 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21128	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. I can use my three minutes to make a brief statement on some speeches. Mr Gradwelt – now, I believe, he has really gone out, but this applies to the whole group – has accused our Federal Chancellor of debt drivers. Now I have to remind you a little of the following: There was a national election in December 1995 because there was no change of course with the SPÖ on the question of the It was possible to establish a policy of this kind. So to the Federal Chancellor in retrospect this is rather not in place. Mr Moser, it is really incredible how stencilly you want to end up talking the facts away. That's worth almost a price. You can't really talk about this trend change at all. Even if the trend change was scarce, as the President of the Court of Auditors called it, on the issue of debt, but also on the issue of interest-rate tax, it must be seen in the light of the fact that by the year 2000 huge debt mountains have been added each year. I can remember: 60 billion, 70 billion, 80 billion schilling a year – this has been a frightening pace. I believe that before this light one must judge the performance of this federal government and this turn. Mr Kogler, you have highlighted the careful budgeting and have raised the question of whether there are tactics or classifications behind it. But you said it with the necessary caution. The difference between 1.25 per cent and 0.97 per cent is indeed, as I mean, but not so big that you can handle it so very purposefully and with certainty. But it's interesting what you're looking for. At the end of the day, the decisive is still the result. The result is the trend change and are two balanced or largely balanced budgets. This is a result which, despite all economic concessions in 2003, is still below 1 percent. The result of this policy – which has been said many times today – is a variety of reforms. One has to mention this because budget renewal is a permanent process and all that one does now, sometimes only years later, can really become effective. This is the administrative reform, which is the reform of pension systems, which is the reform of the Bundesbahnen, and that is the reform of the universities. Since this is such a long-term process, it is also necessary to have a great deal of weight on those reforms that are pending: the federal army reform, the reform of security devices and a lot more. Finally, I would just like to say: Austria is on a future course, and the 2002 annual accounts are a striking corner stone.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21176	Mrs Sburny has now spoken. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21194	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I find it remarkable, according to the statements made by the President of the Court of Auditors, that the main responsibility of the taxpayers is to improve the budget situation. This data will certainly be still to be discussed. But what I would like to put in the centre again, because you have mentioned this, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, is the following: You said you were for a slender state, but not for a weak state without further implementing it. In my perception, the vocabulary of “slender state” is strongly linked to government policy, which is always the reason for the return of the social state. In that respect, I think it is essential to define more precisely what is understood here as a slender state or how strong the state should be and where it should be strong. I was also a little surprised at the spontaneous applause of the representatives of the Socialist Party in the term “slender state”, without actually asking what exactly is meant by it. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We too!]] I would also like to remind you that the Court of Auditors in particular constantly criticises outsourcing of public tasks if they withdraw from public control. In this context, I would like to have another discussion on what tasks the State so-called core tasks are, whether it is slim or strong. From our point of view, some of what is now outsourced by the government or given out of public hands is already covered by the vocabulary of the state, because simply a general security of supply or also a general control is no longer given.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21231	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are now voting on the draft federal law on the approval of the federal accounts for the year 2002, together with the title and receipt in 332 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by the same majority. The approval of the national accounts for the year 2002 was thus granted in third reading. 17. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act, the National Council Elections Act 1992, the Federal Presidential Election Act 1971 and the European Election Order (288/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21286	We now reach the 17th. Agenda item. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The time left by your group, Mr Krainer, is three minutes. This is the time left to you by law. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21308	Mr President. I won't need those 3 minutes. This request is about two things. The first is that we had the good tradition that you were also passively entitled to vote with maturity. Now the maturity has been reduced to 18 and the passive electoral age has been left at 19. That's why On the one hand, the proposal to generally reduce the passive electoral age to 18, i.e. at the time when people in Austria gain the maturity. The second is that there is a single function, for which it has not been possible to enlist even so far despite maturity, and that is that of the Federal President or the Federal President. The age was fixed at 35. There is our proposal to also bind to maturity and to reduce the passive electoral age to 18 – not because we now believe that 20-year-olds or 21-year-olds would be much better Federal Presidents than 35-, 40- or 50-year-olds. It may be – and I personally see this – that someone should be chosen or proposed for the office of the Federal President or the Federal President, who has a certain life experience. But we believe that this is a decision that every voters or voters must make for themselves, and not the legislator should prescribe age. That is why we propose these two things. We would be pleased if there were to be a four-party proposal here, where at least parts of this proposal have been included. Of course, we like the whole thing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21350	Now, Mrs. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer for 3 minutes to the speaker's desk. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21368	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We will take seriously the request of Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Wittmann, Mr Kai Jan Krainerund colleagues regarding the reduction of the passive electoral age. However, we are not willing to “forget”, as you write in your request in the explanatory statement to respond quickly with a change of constitution. That is, if we do, we would like to have good reasons to weigh for and against, and then make our decision to do so. I'm sure we'll do that. But where we are very skeptical to negative, the reduction of the passive electoral age for the function of the Federal President is. We believe that it is not only up to the voters to decide whether they want an 18-year-old or an 18-year-old, but also that the legislator should make sure by defining the passive electoral age that someone has a certain life experience based on his age in order to be able to correspond to the office and dignity of this office. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore: In principle, we have a great interest in your request, but great scepticism about your article III, the reduction of the passive electoral age for the election of the Federal President.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21408	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. His speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21426	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Three points on this request: First: Not only the willingness to talk, but also sympathy for the reduction of the passive electoral age – Mr. Matznetter, but I hope you will not talk to the Constitution too! – and adapting to the age of old age. [[the speaker has a promiseer]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Electoral Age!]] Second point: Little sympathy for the equal reduction of the passive electoral age in the Federal Presidential election, because a law and a provision should also be a signal. And I think here is the signal that the Federal President's office is something special, quite a sensible one. Third point: I believe that this request should be discussed together with some other requests for the reform of the electoral right and should also include the relevant negotiations and deliberations in the Constitutional Convention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21472	The last speaker is Mrs Mandak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21490	Mr President. High house! In principle, we have a positive view of this proposal. We believe that the first part of the reduction to 18 is a follow-up to the state of the active electoral age, where we can also imagine that, in the case of the Federal presidential elections, the passive electoral age is reduced. We believe that the citizens of this state are basically powerful enough to choose the person they want to vote for. It may be that this is once a person who is maybe 27, 28 years old, an extremely charismatic person. Why shouldn't there be the possibility? The only point that is a pity is that this request for a reduction in the active electoral age has not been made to 16. We will, of course, continue to ask for this. I have one last comment on Mr Lentsch's comments. I was rather upset by what you said about Mr Matznetter. In the sense of solidarity among those sitting in the back benches of this House, I would like to say to you: It is not the worst Members, nor in your group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21525	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 288/A to the Constitutional Committee. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-28-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00045_d7e21557	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 318/A to 325/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 1339/J to 1374/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 29. January 2004, 9 a.m. – The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. The meeting will begin with Question Time with questions to the Minister for Finance. This meeting is closed.
