ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e1868	The meeting was opened. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen to the House. Deputies Heinisch-Hosek and Dr Bleckmann are reported as prevented. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e1899	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2055	Before entering the agenda, I announce that Members Dr. Rasinger, Barbara Rosenkranz, colleagues and colleagues have made the request to deal urgently with the written question put before the entry into the agenda 2334/J by Mr Rasinger, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Rosenkranz, Mrs Bundesminister für Gesundheit und Frauen concerning the "Safety of the first-class care of the population with health services". Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. At the same time, I announce that a urgent request made by Members of Parliament for oillinger, colleagues and colleagues on the basis of the provisions of § 57b para. 1 GOG cannot come to the call. These are the so-called conflict standard: If two requests for urgent examination of applications or requests are made, a priority series shall be applied in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, according to which the club shall be the most recent of which is the request for urgent treatment. Let's go into the agenda. The report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government Template 650 of the Supplements is as follows: The Federal Finance Act 2005 and the Investments, 670 of the Supplements. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2094	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ is proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158 minutes, Free 108 minutes and Green 117 minutes. The term of office of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 20 minutes, or the speaking time of the Secretary of State responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 10 minutes, shall be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. Furthermore, the speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries should at least be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. We'll do this. Mr. Federal Minister, this means that I will put the clock in 20 minutes. If you make several speech donations, everything that lasts longer than 20 minutes will be counted on by your group. [[Federal Minister Mag. He's talking to Secretary of State Haubner.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: He didn't hear that!]] Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (650 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2005 (Federal Finance Act 2005 – BFG 2005) together with investments (670 d.b.) Advisory Group VII Chapter 15: Social security Chapter 16: Social security Chapter 19: Family, generations, consumer protection
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2148	We are now entering the negotiations on the Advisory Group VII – Social Security, Social Security and Family, Generations, Consumer Protection – of the Federal Proposal 2005. This debate is accompanied by sign language interpretation. A request for special reporting is not available. The debate opens up to Mrs Silhavy. Your welcome time: 6 minutes. Mrs Colleague, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2175	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I will refer, in my statements, essentially to Chapter 16, Social Security. Chapter 15 will be discussed essentially by Mr Lapp and other Members of my group. [[Abg. Scheibner: Will we not be spared at all today at all at all?- Oh, my God!]] Federal Minister! Chapter 16 deals with social security. The main expenditure is the Federal contribution to pension insurance and the compensatory allowance rate. If one reads in the Federal Finance Act, namely in the employment aid, one realizes that the farmers and the traders have particularly high subsidies in terms of both the federal grant to the individual pension and the compensation allowance rate. [[Unrest in the hall.]] We have a pension harmonisation on the agenda tomorrow. However, they are not prepared to adjust the contribution rates for these two groups, namely for farmers and traders, at least in the longer term to those of the employees according to ASVG. I ask you, Minister of State: What is the reason why farmers and traders, although receiving the highest grants per pension, should not in the long term have the same contribution rate as those employed by ASVG?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2219	Please be a little more quiet, so that the honourable Members can be heard!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2240	Thank you, Mr President. – On another point, Minister of State: You explained to us in a written reply that in 2003 too high advance federal contributions had been transferred, but with the present presentation, they were returned to the budget. However, you are actually confirming the statement that the 2003 pension reform, which has come into force by accident, was not even discussed in the Committee, but, as I can recall, negotiated in the context of 91 legislative amendments to the Budgetary Support Act, was absolutely not covered or justified by budget figures! That is, you chose this path back then to push pensions to a low level. At the time, they bought losses for ASVG employees of 10 percent. They would have meant much greater losses on and on their own. An admission of a mistake in this policy is probably also that you are now planning to reduce this loss lid to 5 percent once more, because you have now clearly recognized what we have said in the debates and in the Committee's deliberations, namely that it is unfair, unfair and unsocial, even by taking note of reality. But apparently this is the method of this federal government, because also Mrs. Rauch-Kallat said at the beginning of the year when the pensioners suddenly had less money in their pocket: [[Abg. Scheibner: Of course!]] I'm sorry, no one expected that! I wonder, What kind of policy is this if you do not even foresee what impact your actions have on those concerned? This is a policy that we reject! She's unacceptable! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] I also hear, Federal Minister, that the negotiations with the officials have been terminated. They are expected to continue this morning. In this respect too, my question is: What kind of policy are you doing here? We have tabled a request for a postponement in the committee, but the government parties have voted in favour of it – and on this day, not even 24 hours before we are to enter the plenary deliberations here in this House, you are not able to say what this law really is supposed to look like! That's piecework! That's flickwerk! This has nothing to do with serious legislation! We reject that! [[Complementary by the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill:...! Don't you know?]] Ladies and gentlemen! You don't benefit from cynical calls at all, because I'm not talking for Heidrun Silhavy, but I'm talking to the people who are affected by all of this. You haven't been thinking about these people in your abandoned politics for a long time! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Mandak.]] [[Abg. Grill:...! It's unimaginable!]] Federal Minister! As a member of the government belonging to the FPÖ, I would like to draw your attention to today’s issue of the “Kronen Zeitung”, which is to say – I quote – that: ‘FPÖ fell again: No additional limit of losses to 15 percent” With this puncture as a crasher you will have to live, Minister of State! [[Abg. Scheibner: It's just not true!]] But I think it's bad for the people! First of all, you said that losses up to 20 percent were not true! Then your ministry has even confirmed these losses. As a result, you said: Well, we're gonna fix that! What, though, is read in the “Kronen Zeitung” – we do not have a sample of you yet? – The FPÖ has fallen by once again! [[Abg. Scheibner: If you have nothing else to read about the pension!]] Unfortunately, this is already the constant “standing” of you, ladies and gentlemen – but actually you can’t talk about “standing”, because you always fall over. But falling down obviously doesn't hurt anymore. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] It is unfortunate for the people because they suffer from your policy! People suffer from this unsavory legislation! – Even if you continue to intercede, Mr colleague, and even if you can be happy because the farmers continue to be preferred, you should also think of those people who are not farmers, but who are working to ensure that our economic life is stimulated, and thus ensure that Austria is a prosperous state – despite your policies! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Where? Where?]] That's what you should think about! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Federal Minister! It is always spoken of as milestones in this Federal Government. These milestones, however, are mostly milestones for the people. That's not what we're going to do. Unfortunately, this is happening in your budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2407	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. Desirable time: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2426	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I too would like to refer to the “social” chapter and, of course, to people. I do not think it would be useful if some in this House were so to speak, because politics is for people, especially social policy. With the budget now available, with 19.5 billion €, a total of 30 percent of federal expenditure, for social expenditure, Austria fulfils the claim of a modern social state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This stabilisation of the social ratio at a high level is, at the same time, an expression of a policy that will continue to exist in the future – not only for the present! – allows for social development and, where necessary, support intervention. The comprehensive social search systems serve this purpose. I will not be limited to pension insurance alone, but I would like to take a look at the overall picture of social security, i.e. what this money is spent on. Of course, these systems must always be redesigned. It is not the task of a policy for the people to preserve the status quo or to establish a museum of social institutions, but the task of politics is to design these systems capable of performing the tasks of today and tomorrow. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As I hope, then, pension reform 2003 and harmonisation will be dealt with tomorrow. Although health insurance does not belong entirely to today's budget chapter, it must be mentioned: Not to preserve the performance of yesterday, with weeks of hospital stays and so on, but to make modern medicine accessible to all! Care and care insurance: I am very glad that the 2005 budget provides for a valorisation of the care allowance. That was already overdue, that is right, but still the view that in recent years we have repeatedly expanded quantitatively, for example with the care allowance from birth for disabled children, and other socially necessary expenses, cannot be adjusted. It is not only about spending the money on financially supporting people, but also about ensuring access to social life, securing jobs and creating teaching opportunities for them, as far as possible. Family policy is with child care, family allowance, hospice karenz and so on a mark of this federal government. However, I would also like to put all of this in the overall picture of social policy: Despite the necessary savings in public budgets since 2000, we have always invested in family policy and, at the same time, with pension reform and pension harmonisation, we have been trying to achieve the old balance, so not all in social expenditure just in one generation. In most cases, it has been forgotten that at the beginning of the whole, in the mid-fifties, the contribution rates for both, namely family compensation and ASVG, were equal to 5 percent. In later generations, this rate was then doubled for the pension and reduced for FLAF, though small. We try to restore the lot without increasing contributions and to give it to working and renewable generations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, it is not only about social policy covering all areas of life, but also about the fact that all citizens are covered by social policy. Social is not a policy in which the rich pay down and then spread to the poor – a poor system for the poor, as we can see it in the Anglo-Saxon countries – but a comprehensive system of which everyone is part, either as a supporter or as a demander: as a child, as a trainee, as a student, as a supporter then, if one is ill or relates to accident rehabilitation, in retirement; and as a demander, as an employed person, as a payer. In a modern working biography, these roles also change! I believe it is important to recognize, in addition to the distribution between low and higher incomes, the gender equality in the distribution of a modern social policy, as we imagine it to be. It is not the worst payers who are, for example, at the highest contribution base. I would like to mention this group: There are about 300 000 people in employment in Austria, 220 000 of them in the ASVG sector. These are those people who, after decades of work, training and so on, become workshop managers or department heads in important export companies and contribute much to the preservation of our social system. As regards the health package in the financial compensation, up to a third of the funds to be allocated are paid by 6 percent of the ASVG insurers who earn over the maximum contribution base. I think it is in a social debate right now that we should say thank you, too, for these benefits in our society and the world of work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Is the chord worker not a performance carrier?]] Similarly, I think that real social policy is far from socialist politics, in which one tries to disassemble as much as possible and to keep the few who want to accomplish it half-way. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner:... don't keep anyone with mood!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the case in a modern social market economy. Rather, this is about encouraging and supporting people, working, investing, acquiring wealth and securing important social systems from the creation of common value. [[Abg. Riepl: And to burden!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2534	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. His welcome time is 10 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2552	Thank you, Mr President, for this is not my wish, but I take note of it. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I do not want to agree with both of you a certain personal integrity in your office at all – I have always said that – but I have seen it politically, given what you represent politically, what has become visible with this budget, but also in recent years, is your position, your place of business is simply a disaster, Mr Federal Minister and Mrs State Secretary! Accident pensions, ambulance fees, main association – all abolished by the Constitutional Court, as well as parts of the pension reform. Yesterday, at the very moment, a recoloring of the main association has been packed in the Council of Ministers. Thank you, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, who only yesterday gave a talk on the successes of the liberals in the 1990s in this Republic – you have quite a little beautiful – during a debate on a urgent question. [[Abg. Scheibner: At least it used something!]] You have reached your ascent precisely by acting against this proporz, against the power nuggets in this Second Republic, which have been somewhat behind closed doors. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what we've changed!]] Do it now. You're doing it yourself and worse! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Main association. – I already know that the old social security system, the self-government with a complicated balance of power, or the propor of two-thirds for workers, three-quarters there, et cetera, was and is not transparent, no question. But please explain to me why 3 million employees are to be represented in the main association of at least five delegates on the employers' side! They sit in proportion, for every insured worker, self-employed workers, some employers' representatives sit inside. Nor do I agree with the delegation of workers' representatives from the workers' organisations there. But what you're showing in the main association, what you're doing together with the ÖVP, with all that's even more immense, but now it's not a debate, namely, with the destruction of high school as a political representative, a directly elected representative of interest, really all borders. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – For this, Mr Federal Minister, you bear the responsibility! Pension reform 2003. – Mr Federal Minister, it was you who went to the public with the ministerial draft and said: That's right! This included 30.40 percent of pension reductions, and this has only been changed by a broad public debate, including through resistance, also through negotiations between the parties. You, Mr Federal Minister, first said that this was a good draft. Pension reform 2004 or pension harmonisation, as you would like to call it. – The minister is behind the draft, defends it, represents it. Then the ÖVP and FPÖ delegates come up with: Yes, holla, there are indeed deposits, it is true what the opposition has said!, and then some ÖVP delegates – Mr Tancsits, I have heard something from you – and FPÖ delegates say: There's something we need to do, it can't stay like that! Where's the minister? - It fell again! You haven't tried again, Minister. This is your responsibility, since you should have clearly pointed out what to do before and that it is not acceptable for people who have worked for 46 or 47 years to be punished with 20 percent of discounts. This is not about peanuts, it also affects people who have really long insurance periods that have started to work at the age of 15. – That’s what you say: Well, bad luck, stop it!Unknown term type: "%s".? I still remember that colleague Dolinschek, with his 15 percent lid, got another one on the lid. [[Call to the liberals:Ha, ha, ha!]] Mr Dolinschek, I am sorry, but: The FPÖ is permanently overturning! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I know that Federal Minister Chief is no longer responsible for accident insurance, but he should soon take care of an accident insurance. That would be the appropriate provision for your own place of business. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! When Mr Tancsits explains here: We're making this lot again! – the lot – then I would like to draw your attention to Mr Tancsits and, of course, to the Federal Minister: How does the lot look like in the balance of the family? How's it look? The balance of family loads is a deficit in 2003 and an even greater deficit in 2004 and there are only deficits by 2010. This is “the restoration of lot ”? This is your responsibility for the resort to say: Don't do anything, the federal government will finance anyway, someday we will be able to repay it again!Unknown term type: "%s".? With this attitude you have certainly not worked in the other areas – health insurance, pension insurance, accident insurance. At this point, I would like to say that the Minister has been allowed to “clean off” from the front to the back; I have tried to demonstrate this in some examples. The so-called resort – and that was good – was a large resort before the year 2000, perhaps too large, about it one can discuss, but the competences it had voted essentially. In 2000, the entire area of labour law, labour inspection has been distributed – you, Mr. Federal Minister, can’t do anything for it yet – and then the Federal Minister can “resolve” the entire area of health insurance, accident insurance. Get out of there! Mr Tancsits, in the course of his speech, is aware of the fact that he wants to say something about health insurance, which, of course, is part of social policy, but: She's not here for the debate. The ASVG has, as it were, been separated by paragraphs, and we need to read in a manual whether only the social resort or the economic resort or the health resort are responsible for §1, 2, 3 and so on, or whether perhaps both are responsible or perhaps both do not know who is responsible for it. – These are the current conditions in essential areas. Please allow me to comment on the topic of social security! I find it quite exciting that we are discussing a pension for all from the point of view of the harmonisation of pensions, but that the social security institutions – also the liberals, and also you, Mr. Federal Minister, did, years ago; Haider and what they all called said: We only need a social insurance institution!, but now you help with it?! – that these small fine black or red social insurance institutions remain within pension insurance, within the health insurance system. There is a social insurance institution for the self-employed, one for the farmers, one for the rest. There is a pension insurance institution, as it is now called, which could actually take over all tasks, and of course there would be a question of whether it still needs its own social security institution, for example, for self-employed persons, even if it still includes health insurance and accident insurance. – There is no more debate on this! I do not hear any more from the liberals in this respect, nor do I hear from the Minister of State. Last point: Advertising or information. – I know you don’t like to hear it when you talk about advertising, but please, Federal Minister, what is the other thing, if you suddenly come up with three or four days before the Vorarlberger Landtag elections, three days before the Upper Austrian Landtag elections, three or four days before the Carinthian Landtag elections, to send very important messages to the Carinthian, to the Vorarlberger, to the Upper Austrians and to the Tyrolean population?- Oh, my God! Very, very important! Three days before the election, the Minister remembers – something he did not think of for years – that: Jessas na, I must point out that in the area of family policy our resort is doing quite great! I have to quickly inform the Tyroleans, the Vorarlbergers, the Carinthian population – and because it is just that, most popular in party newspapers and close-to-party newspapers that otherwise appear under the exclusion of the public! Federal Minister! The responsibility for the department, which includes sparingness, but also the responsibility for perceiving information in such a way that you operate party propaganda quite clearly in party newspapers... – Mr Scheibner, I have informed myself. [[Abg. Scheibner: Go, go, go!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Which one?]] [[Abg. Mandak: I'll bring you some!]] There is a newspaper in Klagenfurt, “Our Klagenfurt, ” and it does not appear for years. [[Abg. Scheibner: I don't know!]] I think you don't know her, but it's a newspaper that belongs to your party. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It usually does not appear, but it appears three days before elections with advertisements from the Minister of Social Affairs. – Interesting! Is this information policy to be implemented by a body? I'm sure not! Mr. Federal Minister, I repeat: Personally everything is okay, I also agree to your commitment, but politically – if you take a summary over the past few years – this management is a disaster! [[Abg. Scheibner: Right! Great!]] Unfortunately, in the crucial social policy agendas of this Republic you have not made any further progress, but there was, as is usual for the liberals, only one thing: Fall down! That is why I recommend an accident insurance for the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2722	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2740	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Oellinger, at the beginning, to clarify a few things: With regard to the losses related to the harmonisation of pensions, it was always a concern of the liberals, a concern of the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations, the Secretary of State and one of my concerns personally, where there is higher losses, where a cumulation of deposits coincides with losses, where there are certain outsiders to try through various mechanisms to push this loss below 15 percent. [[Abg. Oil Fans: Not “Outliers ”! 20 percent!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's what's going to happen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Something else has never been suspended. This is to you, Mr Oellinger, and to you, Mrs Silhavy. Everything else that is claimed here or in the media is pure demagogy. We have agreed on this issue with the EIA, and so there will hardly be any such outsiders. We are concerned that losses are offset in the transitional period for those where the parallel accounting is not yet effected. We will still have enough time tomorrow to talk about pension harmonisation and pension reform, which is why not too much time should be spent on it today. Just one more thing to you, Mrs Silhavy, because you have already mentioned the various contributions in the pension system: It was chordd between SPÖ, ÖGB, the Chamber of Workers and the social partners that applies: the same contributions – the same benefits! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Did they fall by again during the negotiations?]] However, it must also be borne in mind that replacement periods which may arise among the self-employed, such as periods of unemployment, emergency aid or sickness, self-employed or farmers cannot be struck, and that the fictitious exodus among farmers is also taken into account, so that the contribution rate for farmers of 15 per cent and for self-employed persons is equal to 17.5 per cent. For this you were also at the “round table” of the SPÖ – as well as the union and also the workers’ chamber – but now you criticize that. The crashers in this case are really you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the liberals:Yes!]] I have the feeling that there would have been great willingness from the trade union federation and the Chamber of Labour to agree to the harmonisation of pensions, but the SPÖ has forced its representatives in ÖGB and the Chamber of Labour to oppose it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: scandalous!]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: So early a fairy tale hour, that's not possible!]] Mr Oellinger! I have to tell you one thing about the main association: There was once a great politician in Austria who said: Learn story! and I would like to say that to you as well: Learn history! Mr Oellinger! As the main association is designed, members of the interests of the social partners, this system is a system that has existed since the post-war period, and you are quite right that we have often criticized this system. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, pretty!]] Yeah, we've often criticized it. Again and again, when the liberals criticised certain systems that they were no longer in modern times, that they no longer correspond to today and that is why they heard changed, we were accused, including your group, Mr Oellinger, of wanting to destroy all democratic systems in Austria. – We want to improve them, we don’t want to crush anything at all! That's what I'm talking about. The existence of a system from the past, a relic of post-war times you do not need to accuse us. So, Mr Oellinger: Learn history! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now, ladies and gentlemen, we have a substantial part to play in the budget chapter 16: Social Affairs. Tag ‘Bundespflegegeld’: Valorization has long been overdue, but the SPÖ, which now often criticizes that this 2% valorization is far too little, has never done it itself. Since 1996, she has had countless opportunities to implement this, but has not done so. For the first time since 1996, the care money has now been increased, and therefore it will be the same level again throughout the country, because the country of Carinthia has already increased the care allowance by 2 percent years ago. Federal Republic of Carinthia – pioneers in social policy, the rest of Austria is lagging behind, and everything is the same again. It was similar with the child care allowance. There was also the country of Carinthia at the front, and then the federal government has gone after it. 33 million more for about 300,000 caregivers were set up in the budget. This is an essential amount for care providers in Austria. Care periods now also become pensionable, and also an important aspect that is now involved is the possibility of a self-pension for the care of a close family from the care level 3; the federal government takes over the service provider's contribution. – Mr Federal Minister, Secretary of State, thank you very much for this measure! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The replacement services for disabled children are provided from 30 to 40. The age of life extends, and periods of family hospice are also pensionable in the future. That has not yet been done. Social policy means being there for those people who can't help themselves like that, or for those who help other people. Family holidays are also rated with 1 350 € per month for the pension; usually it is women who use family hospice. € 10 million will be made available in the fund for caregivers of people with disabilities. Further emphasis in disability policy is on women with disabilities, the promotion of disabled people in disadvantaged regions, the legal anchoring of a right to pay the standard consumption tax, according to the 1991 standard consumer tax law, which now also applies to non-profit associations. To conclude: The social suspension of the accident pension tax will then be extended to all pensions if the insurance case is at the latest at 31. ==References== In addition, ladies and gentlemen, an extension of the term of appeal to six weeks and a legal obligation to participate in the proceedings on the issue of disability passports and on payment of the nova.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2881	Before I give Mr Bundesminister Head the floor to an opinion, there are two actual corrections. Mrs Silhavy has spoken. Mrs Colleague, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2908	Mr President. Mr Dolinschek has just said in his contribution to the debate that the Chamber of Labour and the ÖGB would have been in favour of different rates of contributions. – That’s wrong! Workers' Chamber and ÖGB have always said: Equal contributions must be made to the same level of contributions, and uniform rates of contributions have been required. You can also read this in various publications. – This is the qualitative difference in politics!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2945	Mrs Csörgits spoke in favour of another actual correction. She too has two minutes' speaking time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e2966	Mr President. Mr Dolinschek claimed that the ÖGB and the Chamber of Workers wanted to agree and only did not agree to pressure from the SPÖ. [[Abg. Scheibner: Of course!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] I am indeed correct that there have been unanimous decisions both in the Chamber of Labour and in the ÖGB, we have also negotiated further, but the representatives of the Federal Government have left the negotiations because they have failed to meet our demands for the withdrawal of the 2003 pension reform. [[Abg. Scheibner: I can't imagine that!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not an actual correction! In addition, this is wrong in terms of content!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e3038	The second part of the actual correction was a speech, Mrs Colleague! – “I am hearing the message”...” Mr. Federal Minister has now come to speak. [[Abg. Csörgits: I'm going to be better!]] I'll set the clock to 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e3067	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think the social budgets for the years 2005 and 2006 are good social budgets. We were able to show quite positive growth in the most important points I am responsible for. I can remind you that, for example, increases of 2.3 percent in the social security scheme for the year 2005 can be found for the family burden compensation increase of 7.2 percent. This means that within the entire social package, i.e. social security, family compensation, labour market policy and health, those parts which lie under the responsibility of my and the Secretary of State, have achieved significantly more significant increases. It is therefore wrong, Mr Oellinger, that the liberals, as you said, have fallen. We have put ourselves in a good position at the negotiating table and have therefore given us an respectable budget. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the figures are concerned, there is very little to discuss. But you should not forget the following in the discussion about the federal care allowance: In 1997, under the then Social Democratic government, the Federal Care Fund amounted to €141 million, and in 2005, €1 391 million was spent on the Federal Care Fund, which is €250 million more since 1997. You can see here how it was under what responsibility. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] This was under the Social Democratic government, the other under my office, with State Secretary, and under Mrs. Sickl. I mean, this graph shows clearly enough who fell down here: You, and this, although in the position of the larger group during the negotiations at that time, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. One thing is also said: Kärnten has begun to increase the care allowance by 2 percent, the state of Salzburg has gone down by 2 percent, and I will now try for the federal government to raise the care allowance by at least 2 percent for 70 percent of the Austrian care providers who receive the federal care allowance to produce an equal status for care benefit recipients in all the federal states. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it was and is undisputed and that it has always been seen by the People's Procuratorate in such a way that in Austria social benefits should be paid out at the same level from Lake Constance to Lake Neusied and not differently. Of course, you could imagine more, ladies and gentlemen, and of course you could imagine better, but in times when it is also about putting other initiatives in Austria, such as those of research and technology, education and science, the whole money cannot flow into the social field. 30 percent of the Federal budget is also a considerable size in international terms. Mr Oellinger! It may not have existed in the Second Republic, because the former great coalition has deprived many things with constitutional majority of the Constitutional Court's decision, but now the highest courts have more freedom of choice in the interests of citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] As a follower of the rule of law, I have always considered this to be positive. The highest courts are to be called by the citizens in such cases. In my political activity since 1986, I have always argued here in the House that the Supreme Courts have been deprived of a great many types of law by means of constitutional provisions which are simply regulated in other comparable democracies, where the citizen can then turn to the Supreme Court if he believes that he is in breach of constitutionally guaranteed law or is disadvantaged in other areas. This advantage of the citizen over the disadvantage he once had to present as an administrative chaos is simply and simply not sustainable. [[Abg. Oils: Political chaos!]] Mr Oellinger, I should also like to remind you that for the time being you are wrong. When I presented the 2003 pension reform and when I presented it, it was not referred to as the final end of the pension reform – the corresponding video recordings are to be obtained for everyone in Parliament and also at the ORF, so that this can be controlled. I have said that the hour of parliamentarians is now coming. While the opposition has prepared to organise demonstrations, the government parties and the representatives of the government have proved what an independent Parliament is capable of and have implemented significant improvements in the interests of citizens. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's a premise! That's incredible!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I am convinced that the citizens will also vote in favour of the reduction of the current 10-percent lid to 5 percent and the repayments as benefits of the Austrian Parliament – and not of the unconventions that come from the opposition to this area. But so it is, ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, there are those who are negotiating and achieving results and who are here in Parliament on these results, and on the other hand, there are those who know that there are problems also in the pension sector, and who, for good reason for their group, have presented their own concepts for their representation of interest in the harmonisation of pensions, but who no longer want to be involved when it comes to the corresponding improvement. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Oellinger! As long as I have a responsibility for government, I will keep in my house what I have called for as a parliamentarian, namely to get fair information from the government. Even if I think that some calculations, which are already based on a legal situation which is no longer valid, are simple and incomprehensible, I will make these calculations when asked by Members to do so. But one should also be clear from a mathematical point of view: 19.8 percent and less are certainly not the 23 and 24 percent who have repeatedly appeared in the public presentation, but significantly less. The 3 per cent and 4 per cent difference for the taxpayer when he takes a pension for 20 years is a significant amount of money that remains in his wallet and is not just on the paper. Grievous tales of 40 and 50 percent loss, as you can find in the election brochures, have simply demanded that one also represents the real situation of the government of the population. [[Abg. Mandak: As you can imagine!]] Mr Oellinger, I will not get tired of presenting to the people the actual legal situation and their actual future, and will not release the space alone for election posters from others. This too is the task of a Federal Minister: to tell the population how it really continues in this Republic, and not to leave them uncertain by means of election brochures from one group or another. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Csörgits, that the government has left the negotiating table, has not yet heard me. Mr Vergestnich was involved in the negotiations: We came to an end in the negotiations, where the negotiating partners made a sincere call to complete the 2003 reform. My position as a Social Minister is that this is unacceptable to those women who have proven improvements in their pensions today. We're still in this position today. I therefore believe that, even in view of the figures of this year, it would be unwarranted, given the disadvantages that women have had, to a large extent, to lift the benefits they have today in the 2003 system. I therefore believe that it was also justified to insist, in the interests of women, in the Federal Government, that parts of the 2003 pension reform remain unchanged. Where the cross-sectional representations and the actual representations in practice have made a difference, the Federal Government has, as with the reduction of the 10-percent cover to 5 percent and with long-term transitional arrangements, negotiated exemplaryly and also made exemplary negotiating offers. I'm sorry that because of 1.5 points – no more – of 29 cornerstones there was no consensus at all. But in the vast majority of the points there has been a very significant approach between the social partners and the Federal Government. [[Abg. Oils: No one knows what you've been negotiating!]] I also agree that it was the free side of the negotiation team that insisted that many of the compromises reached in the negotiations with the social partners remained on the paper of the two government parties. To call this a coincidence, because many ideas of the liberal party were congruent with the ideas of the employers, the workers, the workers' chamber and also of the presidential conference, I simply and simply do not think justified. The fact is that there have been massive changes here. Everyone is going, as is usual in the way of negotiation, to take a position in the negotiations, and there is a compromise together. No one in this Republic can expect a 10-percent party to enforce 100 percent of their views on the negotiating table, just as the metal industry has not enforced 100 percent of its ideas against the undertakings. [[Abg. Oils: But at least 10 percent!]] I therefore believe that we should be talking about a reasonable compromise, then perhaps we will also be easier to do in the dialogue and discourse in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e3195	Mrs Silhavy has once again referred to an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e3216	Mr President. Mr Bundesminister Haupt claimed that while the government groups had lived in parliamentaryism in 2003 and had been committed to improvements, the opposition parties would have prepared themselves for demos. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] – This claim is wrong, and this claim is also immense! If it had happened after the government parties, we would have dealt with the whole block in seven hours. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not an actual correction!]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Thanks to the opposition's discussions, we have dealt with this in a really more detailed way. They have passed through the Committee and have done so in the Committee on Budgets. [[Abg. Scheibner: Speak again if you want to make a contribution to the debate!]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign again.]] If it had happened after you, you wouldn't have made any improvement as well as the reorganisation...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e3278	This is a speech by the honourable Member. Actual corrections report measurable facts – but these are political assessments. [[Abg. Silhavy: Measured that!]] That's not it! [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of Abg. Silhavy) Read the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr President knows that it was measurable!]] Political judgments and policy assessments cannot be the subject of actual correction, but are the subject of the debate. Actual facts can be corrected. [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of Abg. Silhavy) Now you are in the first row and still do not know the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. May. Tancsits: Ten times to write the Rules of Procedure!]] The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. Your speaking time is 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e3373	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! I must point out that the opposition concerns Members here that they are going to demonstrate instead of doing their work. I remember very well the budgetary negotiations last year when it came to making clear to the representatives of the government parties in very clear and clear messages what measures the 2003 pension reform brings to people. Make us a demonstrator here, please do not! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is also so, ladies and gentlemen, that you have to tell the audience at the gallery: The sandmoon has now spoken, because the representatives of the FPÖ scatter themselves and the people sand into their eyes when they say: [[Abg. Scheibner: The Sandmännchen comes only at seven!]] In pension harmonisation, there will be percentage lids, and there will be no major losses. We have worked in the Committee and have clearly explained what measures these are. They have then granted us this and have responded to it, but nothing will come of it, as can be seen from today's newspapers. Mr Dolinschek, come You out of your imagination world, you spoke here earlier like “Alice in Wonderland”! It is true that the budget chapter reflects social policies of measures by which people are degraded to bitters. Their social policy is concerned with the establishment of funds. Whenever you set up a non-social measure that deeply intervenes in people's lives and narrows their income, you make hard-term funds, support funds, you're just setting up funds. They see people as bitters. Instead of claims in social policy To be able to claim area, people should be asked and beg. We reject this policy of social cold combined with dilettantism! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the case of accident pension taxes They shall take a further step. In the 2005 budget, you write quite openly and honestly in that the accident pensioners pay the valorization of the care allowance themselves. This is another diletantic and non-social measure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Disabled people pay the employment offensive themselves and pay the valorization of the care allowance itself. This is not a social policy, it is dilettantism! We reject an unsocial policy in which people, as bitters, have to go from one place to the next. The 2005 budget is another example of how busy the government is with the collapse and how far it is from the reality of people.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e3451	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 8 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e3469	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the chapter ‘Family, Generations, Consumer Protection’. The family is an undisputed leader on the personal scale. It is also first and foremost among young people. This federal government therefore relies on the family. We protect the family from social law. We are strengthening her with financial assistance, Mrs Lapp. We create framework conditions for the compatibility of work and family, because the family bears our central social values such as responsibility, recognition and solidarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Family policy benefits worth €5.3 billion – which is 2.2 percent of gross domestic product – will achieve a record value in the coming year. These €5.3 billion are for nearly 1.5 million families, for mothers, fathers, children, single parents in Austria, people in their diversity, people in their magnificence. Ladies and gentlemen! The family-related benefits from the Federal budget cannot be seen as empty or anonymous accounting, nor are they accounting against other expenditures, but rather use for families means making a future to secure prosperity, because Austria is not in a bad valley, as said yesterday, for example, by Mr Darabos of the SPÖ. [[Abg. Großruck: The SPÖ is located in the Spartal!]] Austria is rather a country, a home country where our children can still reach what we, this generation, have already achieved. For young people, the world basically starts from the beginning, and that is its privilege and its strength, but also its vulnerability and its weakness. We adults have the task of giving our children freedom and security. But we must also give them answers in the future, answers to questions such as: Children: yes or no? Career and family, is this possible? Do I stay single, or do I decide for marriage? I think we need to think much more about it – in addition to the dry figures of a budget. Politics can only create framework conditions to make family living, including family in different forms. This government with Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, Federal Minister of State and State Secretary Haubner sets out measures. Let me remind you of a few, ladies and gentlemen. Childcare for all, family hospice, family package in the course of the tax reform – a package of measures for over 900 000 single earners, of which 100 000 single parents are entitled to parental leave up to the seventh year of life. They always say we want to push the women back to the stove. No, that's not true! Over 44 per cent of all mothers with one child are employed in Austria, and the level of work in women is 58 to 60 per cent. So where do you see that child care money pushes women back to the stove? Childcare is a measure that benefits everyone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But there's something else I want to say, 'cause you forget so quickly: During the time of the SPÖ government, that is, before 2000, the loss of birth aid was reduced to the third year of life. [[Abg. Oellinger: But you were involved!]] We weren't leading here, you know exactly how it sometimes is! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] It reduced the karenz period to 18 months. [[Abg. Oellinger: You were there! That was even prompted by you!]] We now have 24 months plus six months, just to note that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I quote Irmgard Schmidleithner, then president of ÖGB, in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”: Carnation money for all is a “social crime ”! – But the Greens are standing, Klubobmann says Van der Bellen, who else I very much appreciate, for nothing. He said that in his contribution to the general debate on the budget two weeks ago, too much money was spent on the family compensation fund. I therefore ask you: How much is family worth? Ladies and gentlemen! As a family spokesperson of this Austrian People's Party, I prefer... [[Abg. Oillinger: What is family? Explain this once!]] I've already explained this to you before! You didn't watch out, you just played around with the laptop. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He's got his calls in the laptop!]] I prefer to say that FLAF is in a short term and needs to be compensated for by the overall budget, because family support, Mr Oellinger, is an important economic factor and is equivalent to budgetary measures such as infrastructure, sport and job security. So I think that's a necessary measure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is also important to me that we ensure a sustainable full extension of the childcare allowance – or, in the course of the pension harmonisation, the accounting of four years of contribution for child rearing periods with a contribution basis of €1 350, which is the median income of young women. This contribution base is now twice as high as before. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we don't do anything good if we always look backwards. [[Abg. Ollinger: Every session look back! In every speech you talk about the past!]] I am proud of these family-political achievements in Austria, and we are at the forefront here in Europe. Only Luxembourg will use even more financial resources to strengthen families. We have acted, Mr Oellinger. The SPÖ and the Greens, on the other hand, remained standing in the 1970s. Family policy has developed further, and is called for freedom of choice, both as-and-and not as a de- or. It is asked: less for the state, but more for the families. I think you know that in the innermost heart, too, but in the opposition it is easy to be opposed to having any suggestions and to write wishes to the Christian child.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e3613	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. 8 minutes welcome. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e3631	Mr President. High house! Mrs Steibl! Life as a single or a marriage – I can only tell you that there is something else. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] Perhaps this should also include the ÖVP in their thinking that apart from being single and marriage there are other forms, very good forms of life, which one should also take into account by law and which should also be considered in the context of the legislation. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Unrest at the ÖVP!]] – Yes, because some vague memory has faded up, I think. You, Mrs Steibl, said you should not look into the past, and the next sentence was: We've acted. That's exactly what you do to a large part when you stand out there: You always say what happened in the past, and then most of the time you keep the SPÖ in mind – we won't do that! – what she has failed and has not done, pretend you never had anything to do with the whole thing in your life, and then you say we should not look into the past. [[Abg. Scheibner: You haven't done anything yet!]] You always look into the past! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Are you the defender of the SPÖ, Mrs. Colleague?]] Ms Haubner presented the four pillars of family policy in the Committee on Budgets. I have, as always, done my best. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Scheibner.]] – My contributions are not always so popular, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: There is nothing to be done if the Secretary of State says something!]] I think yesterday would be You have been glad if I do not always share in writing if someone from your group makes an intermediate call. But it's nice if you appreciate it, I'm glad about it. But back to the four pillars of family policy: First, make financial family benefits compatible with the second pension scheme for women, third job and family, and fourthly with families in difficult situations. I would like to go through these four points very briefly. What does that mean? There are financial family benefits in Austria, and Austria is indeed a country that is at the forefront here. That's true once what you're so happy to do with a variety of statistics that you'll always find somewhere. I find that fascinating, where you are constantly getting out of a statistics that Austria is at the front, but in this case it is actually true. But it is also an example of the fact that the amount of capital used does not always speak for what comes out to correspond to what one wants politically – in fact, what we want politically. I think you want it. [[Abg. Scheibner: So how is it now? I didn't understand!]] I might say it a little bit easier: They invest a lot of money in the family sector, but there is still a lack of childcare places in the back and front, for example. [[Abg. Ellwall: Where?]] In many federal countries! You should get some knowledge. These are questions that seem to pass you. [[Abg. Ellwall: Tell us where! Call a community!]] You will learn this from all possible federal states and communities, but not if you ask your mayors, because they always say we do not have this problem. I know that very well from Vorarlberg. Our mayors say: We do not know the problem at all, and if you talk to the women in the affected communities, they will tell you: We cannot work because there is no way of child care. – I ask you to finally take note of this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is therefore very likely that there will be opportunities to convert into this financial area and set different priorities. You don't want to do that, I take note of it. We would do that very well, because we think it is necessary. It was not long ago at the Austrian Institute of Family Research an event in which child care facilities from different countries were compared, where it was also a question of how many children there are. There the countries Norway, Sweden, France and Austria have been compared. Two major points have been crystallized at this event: It is about the legal right to child care, which is very important. And the second major factor: It is important that the care allowance, child care allowance, as it is called, is flexible to use, that parents can decide at what stage they want to have how much money, whether they want to use much money in a shorter period of time, or distribute less money over a longer period of time. These were the two most important components that lead to not only more women being able to work and thus better placed and secured financially. This is also an important prerequisite – this goes hand in hand – for the birth rate in these countries with nearly 1.8 children per woman to be much higher than in Austria, where at present 1.38 children come to a woman. Take this with you! I know you need a strong rethinking. There is indeed a completely different way. It would be necessary to do this when it comes to helping women to be self-employed, to ensure their financial security, on the one hand, and to ensure, on the other, that we all do, that more children are born in Austria, and that the issue of generations is also raised. They are talking about “pension support for women. ” That's what I'm asking myself: Why do I find so little in this pension reform, both in 2003 and in 2004? You've done one thing, and I agree with you: You have achieved an improvement with the extended billing of child care periods. But you know very well that through these long throughput periods these benefits which the women have are more than betted, so that under the rule a new disadvantage arises. You have failed to make a mandatory pension division between husband and wife during upright marriage. It would have been possible to help women really very quickly to get a good pension, or at least to make a significant improvement in independent insurance. It is very unfortunate that you have not done this and have failed to meet your own demands on this point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last area: Accompanying families in difficult situations; I want to take part – you always accuse us, we only criticize. There is something really outstanding in Austria, namely the Law on the Protection of Violence, linked to the right of directions, which allows a family member to exercise force – and that is usually the men – to point this man out of the apartment so that the rest of the family can stay in the apartment. There is support and support for this. From the idea a great law! What's going on? . The intervention agencies that should take over this task have had budget cuts in recent years. Today the budget will remain the same. That means, however, that hours must be reduced because the financing of rising salaries is not guaranteed. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true! There is an increase on the part of the Minister of the Interior!]] – That is true, Mrs Steibl! In addition, we have the problem that demand is unfortunately rising. No, not “sufferer”, that is wrong, it is constantly rising, and that is good because more and more directions are actually being made. There would be a crazy need for intervention agencies, but there cannot be the appropriate offer because simply the financial resources are missing. The speech is not at all that it could be possible to extend this advice, this support and help that women there get to children. The children are currently in the situation of violence in the family when the right of directions enters into force, without accompanying it. The mothers are accompanied, the children are not. Unfortunately, it is not possible at the moment to provide the support that would be urgently necessary because it is supposedly not eligible for funding. I'll tell you: You could finance it if you really wanted it and if you took your own pillars of family policy, as you call it, more seriously. Please do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e3805	The next speaker is Mr Walch. 6 minutes welcome. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e3823	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Dear Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say to Mr Silhavy: Be glad we're in government! The situation in the federal grant and the differences in the pension system were not created by us, but by you, and by us these problems will soon belong to the past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] We have a lot of time to discuss tomorrow. I also have to say one thing about the actual corrections today: I believe that President Vergestnich and President Tumpel would have been willing to continue negotiations. You have seen what you have called for, for example the 2003 pension reform because of the reductions. They can't share the success, because we're going to enforce it or decide tomorrow to reduce these discounts to 5 percent. Mr Oellinger, when you say about the collapse of the FPÖ: You've been lying for a long time, you can't fall by! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have a social minister in this government who is really social. Today, the merger of social security institutions is criticized. That's what you said in your speech, Mr Oellinger, that nothing goes on, and much more. A merger has already happened: The pension insurance institutions of the workers and employees were grouped together. [[Abg. Oils: You didn't watch that!]] That was the first step. The merger between the self-employed and farmers will continue in the near future. The health insurance contribution for workers was reduced last year. The chip card will be introduced, and the pension scheme and much more will be secured thanks to a Social Minister Herbert Haupt. There is an increase of 2.30 percent in the social budget. One could be criticized if it were to decrease, but if it gets more, then that's positive anyway. To the care fund area. As much as is spent under this government for those in need of care, has never been spent. The care allowance has not been increased since 1995, and now it is increased by 2 percent on the basis of pressure from our Minister for Social Affairs. – Dear Herbert, thank you very much, this is really social! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: How long have you been in the government? How long has nothing happened?]] Next: the disabled billions. At least something has been done. Under the old government something has been done in this area, but not to this extent. We work specifically for people with disabilities, for disabled children: From birth they already get the care allowance, earlier than three years. That's disability policy! There is also a lot of money for re-training, for many such measures. The disabled will receive the corresponding grants. Thanks again to the Minister of Social Affairs Herbert Haupt! And as far as family promotion is concerned, I really have to say to you: You've been cut short in the old government, on the other hand, we're going to match it again and improve the situation again. If I look at the child money alone: 436 €; for multiple births plus 218 €. We thank our Secretary of State and our Minister for this. That's family policy! There is also retroactively the family supplement for single earners: for the first child 130 €, for the second child 175 €, for the third and every other child 220 €. And the profit limit has been increased from €4 400 to €6 000. Under the SPÖ government, the karenz period has been shortened by half a year, from two to one and a half years. It was extended to three years under the FPÖ/ÖVP government. This is social policy, that is family policy! Mr Sozialminister Herbert Haupt, thank you for what you offer to the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e3908	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 6 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e3928	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Walch, we do not yet know exactly what you want to decide here in Parliament tomorrow on pension reform. [[Abg. Walch: I know!]] Then tell us, please! If that is true, what we read in the newspapers today – “Pensions: Government agrees, losses without ceilings", “FPÖ is turning to ÖVP line” – then I would say, Mr Walch, that is not a reason for a big appearance here, but rather a reason to be a little quiet here. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The fact that this is in the “standard ” is fascinating!]] But if you know what comes out – after the negotiations today It didn't look like that at night – perhaps you could inform us so that we can also know what is being discussed tomorrow. [[Abg. Walch: Tomorrow, tomorrow! We're always good for surprises!]] They keep making it exciting, all right. Actually, not all right, I expect to have a different relationship with the House. But now to the family chapter. Of course, it could be said a lot about the social dimension of family policy that you are making and what changes would be necessary. Given the short period of time only a few comments. Some important changes would be necessary in terms of child benefit alone. For example, in the case of termination protection, it would be necessary to adapt at last to the full reference period of the child's allowance. The first one is already dragging it out of the workplace unexpectedly. There would be an urgent need for action. There is also an urgent need for something to be done with regard to the limit of commitment that has just been mentioned. There must be a change, it must be raised at least clearly, precisely against the background of the pension reform and the impact on women, because if each month counts, it must also be possible to collect many months. Now on the need for flexibility addressed by Mr Mandak: Yes, it would be necessary to free the child money from this present rigid system and to design a model according to which young people can set themselves up according to their respective stages of life as appropriate to them. This would not even cost much money and would be a measure that would help many. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But today the focus is on the financialability of your family policy, and there is also a lot in the arrogance. As a result of the full expansion of child benefits in 2005, the family compensation fund deficit continues to grow. The deficit has already been in place in recent years, and it is growing. They see no reason at all to act, on the contrary: In the context of the pension reform, child rearing times are now also financed from the family compensation fund. This is a significant increase in expenditure. Thankfully, I received this in a request from you in the Budget Committee: This begins with 2005 with an additional burden of € 319 million and continues so. This is therefore a clear added burden for the family compensation fund, which it has always called for, in 2008 he would no longer be deficient. The same information is now available to me on a budget request, only without taking into account the child-retirement periods for the pension calculation. In other words, it is not true that the family compensation fund will no longer be deficient in 2008 at all. I also asked you what needs you see in this context in the financing of the family compensation fund. I therefore receive the written answer that the Federal Government will continue to present provisionally and therefore there are no compelling reasons for amending the financing of the Family Taxation Fund. Mr Federal Minister, I do not quite understand this: The regulation that the federal government is submitting is intended for exceptional situations, but if now in permanence of the family tax compensation funds is in deficit and in permanence the federal government must submit, then it is simply and simply nothing but tax financing over the back door. Therefore, I would say that if it were not more sensible to rethink and resolve the family compensation fund in the present form and to proceed to a tax financing, which I think would be even more socially just, because then all the population groups would contribute to the financing of family benefits according to their possibilities and would not, as at present, create a social disparity, because some of the population groups would be more, some of them not at all and some less. [[Abg. Steibl: A tax again!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is also a lot to be said about child care. There is a larger post, but by far not large enough. The aim is to finance cross-Community pilot projects. In my opinion, this is basically interesting and good, but first of all far too little, because you are trying to solve the problem of the lack of childcare facilities only through new statistics and not through measures. Secondly, I would like to tell you that we will observe very closely where and in what areas these pilot projects will take place and what they will promote. There is an urgent need to reintroduce the former – in Schilling’s view – childcare billions, with which the communities are actually supported to satisfy the existing needs.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4016	Mrs Steibl spoke in favour of an actual correction. The latte is now high in terms of Rules of Procedure. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4038	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Sabine Mandakhat claimed that the intervention agencies should accept or have to accept budget cuts. [[Abg. Mandak: Not this! It's gonna stay right today!]] The fact is: On the basis of retransmissions for intervention agencies, €1.5 million from the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs is foreseen in the Federal estimates 2005. This exceeds the amount from 2004 by approximately €250 000. The funding budget also provides for an increase of approximately €70 000.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4089	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon for 5 minutes to the speaker's desk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4109	Mr President. Federal Minister! Very briefly on consumer protection: I welcome the fact that there is a higher budget. In addition to the legal conditions we naturally have to discuss on this issue, there should also be something like practical consumer protection. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Who are you telling?]] We have quite a success to mention in this regard. Last year we launched a resolution on ÖBB consumer orientation, which led to the ÖBB's entry into force of a customer charter in 2005. Second point: Post. We are dealing with an increasing liberalisation of the market. I believe that the basic principles of customer orientation, complaint management and all other quality criteria must apply to the post, but also to all other postal service providers. Third point: Pension harmonisation. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Three or four weeks ago, I received a letter from my head of the ÖGB, who is at the same time a works council in voestalpine, asking me to announce how I will vote on this issue. I wrote him a letter, saying: I cannot tell you that because we are currently in parliamentary negotiations. However, it is clear that there must be reforms due to demographic development, because I do not want the state pension system to end as the pension system of voestalpine. This has not been shortened, but abolished, ladies and gentlemen. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Interestingly, Mr Tancsits and I received a visit from Böhler-Pensionists in Parliament 14 days ago 20 years ago under a Minister of State Rudi Streicher: On Friday – that was just before Christmas – they received a letter from the company asking them to be either for a deposit or they won't receive any more of their company's pension. [[Abg. Lens: Very “social”!]] Over the weekend, so until Monday they had to decide. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who was that? Which minister was that?]] That was the situation with Böhler. And now I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, about social democracy: Where were the trade unions back then? Where were the trade unions this weekend? – I say to you one These people had to decide on their own just before Christmas. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Which minister was that?]] They were under enormous pressure and were deeply disappointed and injured in view of this situation. You haven't completed this story to this day. [[Abg. Grill: Unimaginable!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Which minister was that?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Call to the ÖVP: That was Minister Streicher!]] There is a red thread in you through this pension debate. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Strings were that! Isn't he from the SPÖ?]] And so that there is no history falsification when Mrs Silhavy says that the government has stood up from the negotiating table, I would like to stress that the government is still sitting at the negotiating table today. They got up from the negotiating table to put it right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! An essential feature is the following: They have, when it comes to difficult decisions, the characteristic of a well-known escape behaviour. They “clean themselves” when it is actually about the decision. That's the problem with you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What can we learn from the SPÖ so we can't do it like that? [[Abg. Grill: There is nothing to learn!]] – First of all: I believe that the whole question of pension reform has been debated for a long time. Many people today know that this reform is necessary. First point. [[Abg. Broukal: No one in Austria believes that this reform is necessary!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Oh yes!]] Mr President, I should like to thank The second thing we can learn is that, of course, it can't be a weekend party just like 20 years ago, but it belongs to long transitional periods. And these long transitional periods we ensure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Third point: It does not help, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, if we are fleeing from decisions, because decisions must be made.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4305	Mr Vergestnitsch spoke on a point of order to make an actual correction. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4327	It was claimed by my previous speaker that we had stood up and left the negotiations. [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] I'll put it right: ==References== The Federal Chancellor stated on July that further negotiations would be pointless under these conditions and that the government would therefore present its own concept. That's the fact.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4371	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4390	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. We're not up!]] [[Abg. Grill: They were gone!]] Mr Grillitsch, please take it easy. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's sitting there anyway and he's not touching!]] Decisions must be made, you are already right. But in the decisions always the question is: To whom do they benefit and at whose cost do they go? Mr Grillitsch! You know exactly that the decision you make regarding pensions is at the expense of a majority of the population in Austria and in favour of it is only much less, for example, which are also in your ranks here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] But tomorrow we'll talk about it in detail – tag policy board. Now I come to the main aspect, Minister. You have, as my colleague has already explained, had to leave feathers in the social sector, which brings about competence. Labour law, health aspects have been transferred to other sectors. Minister! You have acquired a competence: consumer protection. And in this cross-sectional matter I would like to measure you once with your own scale, which you communicated to us in a request answer last year. Minister! Let us first look at the budget very briefly. It is true that, compared to the 2004 budget, which now applies, you will budget € 1 million more for 2005. So you'll find € 1 million more in the consumer's budget. Minister! You can do this once! This €4 million is exactly €0.43 per person in Austria. Minister! Go shopping: At €0.43, speak 43 cents, you get a fruit yogurt. The Republic of Austria is worth protecting consumers exactly a fruit yogurt, and that is clearly too little, Minister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's what you say!]] I admit that this is more than last year, but let us take into account what you announced last year, in 2003, in the committee, what tasks you have carried out. For example, they want to become offensive on the issue of gambling, telecommunications. Minister! For two years now, my request has been in your drawer to improve the situation of winnings in the Committee. Mr. Minister, there's nothing going on! Telecommunications: We have here passed a law which is at the expense of all those sitting here, namely this constant spam flood. It has been decided in Parliament that without any filters, these advertising circuits can, in some cases, be very degoutable to us without restrictions. Minister! There is also a green request in this direction. Do something for the consumers, do something for the people here in the house, protect us by means of measures also against this spam flood! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At that time, in 2003, you answered that consumer protection also has something to do with real estate brokers. Mr Minister, look at the list of applications. My request for limitation of broker fees has not been dealt with. Our request for clear transparency of surcharges and discounts in the rental sector has also not been dealt with. Minister! You could have set up initiatives yourself and not just wait for applications. But nothing happened. On the basis of your competence, your field of activity, you have also addressed this whole question of water pipelines. I put a question to you about lead in drinking water, but in part you are not responsible for it and I continue to lead me to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour because it is responsible for the so-called construction products. This is another typical example of how fragmented consumer protection matters are and how little persuasive you act because You should have been intervening with Mr Bartenstein for a long time, so that at last the construction products can be used to ensure that drinking water not contaminated from new water pipelines is not used. The Chamber of Labour has measured the values of lead and heavy metals, and you continue to lead me to Minister Bartenstein. I mean, that's not a state. You, Mr Minister, have also answered to me last year that consumer protection is also a matter for you to deal with the food problem. Minister! Now we have a new food safety law to assess. I miss your loud voice saying: We need more transparency, we need an increase in control means, we need more money for the Agency for Health and Food Safety, which food safety can only give us! I miss that, Minister! Then you told us in 2003 that you had a big innovation on product safety in view. I miss your novel to the Product Safety Act, nothing went on. This can be seen in the various areas of the Consumer Protection Act, for example in the "Verbandsklacht". Minister! Last year, you presented me in writing that consumers should know about their rights. What's going on? – A court of association is still in force, for example in mass proceedings such as the WEB process in Salzburg, which unfortunately does not eliminate the risk of the interruption of the proceedings for the complainants, but there is a prolongation of a state that in itself robs the person concerned of law. We have now introduced the government proposal to amend this law that you do not bring in. Finally, you will be working with your colleague, Mrs Miklauch, so that what is promised in the Committee on Justice is taken seriously. I could talk more. You're making the ÖBB passenger charter now. We've been applying for it for a long time. – My previous speaker referred to the post. I'll take you to the post now. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: The Greens did not agree, you rejected! Mrs Colleagues, you did not ask for this!]] In their liberal agents lies the Universal Service Regulation, which could regulate the number of postal offices that could finally ensure the supply of postal services to consumers in the country. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: Always stick to the truth!]] You can change this Universal Service Regulation at any time. For a regulation you do not even need a parliamentary decision. But I would ask you to finally take this decision on Parliament. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4515	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The application does not belong to this chapter. You can bring it to the Finance chapter this afternoon. Now is the social chapter. You can read it without a doubt, but I won't allow it. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4533	It is about consumer protection, and it is about local postal services. In any case, I would like to call on the Prime Minister to finally get behind it as a liberal, because the postal sector is, so to speak, in the hands of freedom. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You trust us, that's good! You know we have commercial competence! You believe in the Minister, that's good!]] I would point out that the provision of postal services must not be neglected. – Mr President, I would like to make one more comment this afternoon on our request concerning the amendment to the Universal Service Regulation – Mr President, of course, I am in favour of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Minister, you have fallen into social policy! You have not yet implemented anything in consumer protection policy of what you have announced, and you are likely to fall back again at the post offices. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4586	I'll get you together. The application will be submitted to the financial chapter again this afternoon and will then be discussed, negotiated and voted. Mrs Rosenkranz, you are speaking. 6 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4607	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! No country in Europe is spared from the discussion and the need to change the social state in order to preserve it, simply because it has forced reality to take note of it, or to necessarily take note of the effects that have occurred, that there is a link between the social state and its basis, the charging procedure and the generation contract. The number of children is low. The effects are now staggering where we are missing the children who should enter working life. You of the SPÖ have this, as They were largely responsible for social policy in Austria for 30 years. They have also failed to take note of the central economic rate that any social burden arising from current national incomes is to be disputed. We, however, have made it very clear, since it was responsible, that it is aware of this, and has also focused on family policy. That's something you can't thank this government enough for. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Above all, the Social Ministry, the family state secretariat, is aware of the fact that the social state can only exist then and is only really insured if the generation agreement holds when families find conditions that allow them to comply with and support the generation contract. The steps taken by this government in family policy are very much related to practical areas: to make life easier for families and to compensate for the burden in the medium term. I am not of the opinion that FLAF is being overstepped and that, anyway, a great deal of money is going into family policy and that this is not really what this means. Although we are top riders in Europe, the birth rate does not follow. If you look at this in the overall context, then you can still note that pension provision is made up of 100 percent of current national income, but the burden of child rearing is only supported by a quarter of the public sector, three quarters remain with the parents. This is an imbalance that has been imposed from the beginning by those who have introduced the generation contract. They have been pointed out that they have been made aware that this could have an effect. It has not been taken into account. I am pleased that I now see that the awareness that the family loads are so strong that the public hand has to support more so that this burden compensation will eventually become a service compensation. Two goals are family policy, as we see it. One is to ensure the economic basis for families. This could also close the discrepancy that exists between the desire for children and then reality. We hear it from all surveys, we also hear it in personal conversations, it is a fact that children are still a poverty factor. With each child, of course, per capita income is falling, and quite significantly, each child continues to worsen the pension. By the way, this is your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. They have to be responsible for the fact that a large proportion of women still have a bad or no pension, especially because they have raised children. This is the result of the policies you have made in recent decades. The fact that children are a major burden must lead to an attempt to reduce this burden. Childcare benefits have led families to ensure their existential basis much better than before in the first years of child rearing. And we see it as it is assumed: Childcare is something that benefits young families what they want. A second goal of family policy is to grant freedom of choice, especially in terms of how to achieve reconciliation between children and work, freedom of choice for young women to live up to and articulate their feelings of life. Mrs Mandak, as it always comes: The relationship between childcare facilities and birth rate is so simply not right at all. I would like to refer you to the birth rate and the extension of childcare facilities, for example, in the new federal states of the Federal Republic of Germany. There, the birth rate is now so low that there is an oversupply of 104 percent of childcare facilities. So this connection is not right. [[Abg. Brosz: That's really absurd!]] That's not true either if you look at the city-land gap. The city of Vienna has no doubt a well-developed network, especially in the case of small children's facilities. The birth rate is the lowest in all of Austria. There is a higher birth rate in federal states that are poorly equipped. That's how it can be seen all the way through. That's not a connection! [[Abg. Mandak: Oh yes!]] Our foreign exchange is to create childcare facilities, of course, if and because they are needed. [[Abg. Mandak: It's about the legal claim!]] But it is about granting real freedom of choice and adopting the illusion that this would be the truly demographic measure. Family policy basically has it that it should be pragmatic, that is, one must do so and the other must not be allowed to do so. This is also the principle which the Secretary of State, in particular, has devoted himself to. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For 30 years, you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, had been totally unhindered by social policy. For 30 years, they have appointed the Minister of Social Affairs. At that time, you – and this shows the effects that have now occurred – remained sparse. Now that you're in the opposition, talk, make good suggestions – that's your right, but that's the difference: We have the responsibility now, and we are acting!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4685	The next speaker is Mr Leutner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4703	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! They're always talking about you acting. The problem is that we have to act properly, especially in the case of pensions, and that is what we are talking about in social policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My predecessor spoke about the overall situation of social policy. I would also like to make a few comments. I think, ladies and gentlemen, the 2005 budget looks such that unemployment will remain the main concern number one in Austria. There are 300 000 back in winter. And this government is investing too little in the fight against record unemployment, and that is also a danger to social security. The tax reform, which was so much the case here, hardly brings to the workers anything, just 20 € monthly relief for a earner. That the people don't feel, ladies and gentlemen, is no wonder in my eyes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, you can already say one thing: What this tax reform will bring with it are major, all the biggest tax losses in corporate taxes, because of the many gifts there are, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Grill: What gifts?]] However, this will avoid the Community's urgently needed revenue for future expenditure, but above all also for the financing of social security in the future. That is why I say, ladies and gentlemen, in the social chapters of this 2005 budget, the germ for further cuts has already been laid. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And what is the distribution in the social chapters? Mrs Rosenkranz referred to family compensation. What does it look like? Workers pay 92 percent of the funds in these family expenses in 2005 but only receive 86 percent of the benefits. In 2004, it was at least 88 percent. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In the case of pensions, the Federal Contribution 2005 is increasing among the self-employed, but it continues to fall among the unemployed. This is the situation, ladies and gentlemen. If you look at the total taxes since 2000, you can see: It is constantly increasing the income of wage taxes, the income tax and the cost of income taxes is falling, ladies and gentlemen. This is the situation, and I say it is one-sided at the expense of the workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why it is time for alternatives, time for a budget that provides money for a determined fight against unemployment. This is important for the financing of social benefits. Our group stands for this alternative.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4768	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4788	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, especially ladies, who interpret you in an excellent way in the sign language! I admire the great performance you're doing here. [[General condolences.]] Social policy is not a privilege of anyone, social policy is an enormous duty for all to contribute, and I think we have a good tradition here in Austria. We have worked for years and decades, and today we have generally a tangible policy. But there is, of course, the need and the obligation to take some kind of adjustment measures, because society also changes because the economy is changing because the conditions are changing. And I think we have to get involved in it because I think that otherwise we would criticize a valuable asset in our country far too much and maybe it would play out. I think we have reason to rejoice. Look at how often Austrians talk about American enthusiasm! Let's just look! There are higher total costs there, but on average only 60 percent of citizens in the care sector. We in Austria have almost 100 percent in supply. Isn't that a great thing? And that is exactly what we insist on, that is what we want to further develop, and that must also be ensured for all futures, because only then will social policy succeed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The financing is, of course, a dual project. There are the articles on one side, there are means of transfer on the other side. We've got this in health insurance. Those who work in this area know that there is also very strong compensation from the State on pensioners' health insurance. We have, of course, our own contributions in pension insurance, the federal disbursement liability and the compensation allowance. You know, I am already a little touched when, several times today, it is presented here, how insanely different and unfair these benefits are within the individual groups. [[Abg. Riepl: That's right too!]] Let us take a realistic look at it: If you are addressing the ASVG area today and you have less use there, we are pleased that we have a number of young risks there, we have ongoing access because we can just expand this market and this area. They do not have this trend in the economy and unfortunately they do not have it in agriculture at all. That doesn't make us happy, but we all agree that we also need to give this group a proper, orderly pension scheme, because whoever doesn't accept it does not make social policy, he makes class struggle, and that's not suitable for this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You could discuss the grant question for an infinitely long time, there would be some very interesting cases, but that doesn't make sense. Let us ask ourselves the important questions. I believe that it is simply right to note here that the compensatory allowance in Austria is at least a basic element for more than 300 000 people. And if we have developed these over the last few years, but have been able to develop especially in the last few years, this is a positive thing that really benefits many of the people involved in small incomes. That's a good thing. Or the care money. Call a country in the world or in Europe, which has a good system similar to ours in Austria! We want to adapt it for years, in the great coalition, even today, this discussion is always there. There was always the answer, it's important, but you can't afford it. We have now done it, and I believe that this should be said here today, because it helps precisely those who need it. Minister! I would like to point out something special today, which is also unique. We don't always have the application-related right distribution in the care money. And that is why it is important that the project of quality assurance has been addressed by the ministry and is now critically questioned: Is the distribution correct, is the application correct? If the care allowance is paid, are the necessary care measures also taken? That's where we need action without accusing anyone. I think we're on the right track here. If we talk about pension insurance several times today, I would like to say that tomorrow we will have the opportunity to talk about this subject. But some basic thoughts: That we pay later because our youth has a better education, that's something good. The fact that we get out of work earlier is a development in recent years that we need to change. And that we live longer, that's a positive thing, but it has to be responded. If we want to, we can also meet this challenge, and we will do it. If it has been said several times today that women are among the great losers, please remember that in 1993 we started to calculate child rearing times, to see as a claim-based element, and that has been further developed to this day. We don't need to be ashamed of that, that's something we can all say to each other: Yes, this Austrian social policy is a tangible product! In this way it is observed and seen internationally and across Europe. Many countries envy us because we have already made the first important reforms. And we will continue our work here with caution and with clear direction. Allow me a last sentence on the social security structure. There are ongoing changes. If you don't know, I'll tell him now: The industrial economy and the farmers already have a common service company. We want to further deepen it; I hope it will. There you can also see: On all paths and at all levels, where we can make a decisive contribution to people's well-being, we are on the verge of doing so, because the better is actually more important than just caring for the good.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4843	Mr Böhm spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4864	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! In his speech Mr Leutner von der SPÖ claimed that 92 percent of the family compensation fund is paid by the employees. I'll put it right: More than 80 percent of the family compensation fund is paid and contributed by the service provider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4899	Mrs Haidlmayr has now come to speak. Your welcome time: 8 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e4917	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, yes, it is a small advantage that the care money will now be valorised by 2%, but that is a year in which we had no valorization, only a balance of 0.25 percent, and for that, Mr Minister, no one really needs to boast. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is true, Mr Minister, that you are only responsible for the last four years, but even if I count on the last four years, it would be only half a percent, and that is by far not even the coverage of the inflation rate. Minister! This 2 percent increase is so minimal that it will probably not even feel the individual. Because what are 2 percent of the care level 1? – That's exactly €2.90 a month. Minister! With an increase of € 2.90 per month, no one will be able to cover the increasing assistance costs. It just doesn't work out. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Today, of course, some will still come down here and say how great this is and that it is more or less a century law in which this 2% valorization is passed. But I can only say one thing: The people concerned are not fooled by anyone anymore. They can expect what 2 percent are. 2,90 € per month are truly no reason to be euphoric or happy, and do not offer any occasion to celebrate any celebrations. Minister! I think it is positive that the assistance at the workplace is fairly slow. You deserve a praise for that, and I'll give it to you if you earn it. And in this case you deserve it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Assistance at the workplace is a very, very important area for the future. Very many people cannot go to work at the moment, but not because they do not have the appropriate knowledge to fill a job, but because they simply cannot do so because of their lack of mobility or because of their restriction on movement. And that's why it's important that there's someone at work who's just doing handcuffs that helps someone to go to the toilet, et cetera, who's going down a folder that might pick up something if it fell down. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That is quite, very important, only, Mr Minister, it must be extended by the time of departure. It does not matter to the individual, if he now has the assistant at work, but has to deal with the way from the apartment to the workplace alone. You know, Mr Minister, that is very difficult for many to do. But I think there are great opportunities for us to find a solution. I believe that this too will succeed. Minister! It is very bad, on the other hand, when it comes to job adaptation. Minister! They released the Federal Social Offices into a certain freedom a few years ago, and as it is now handled, Minister, this is simply a disaster. It's really a disaster! There are federal states who say already in September: You don't need to come to us anymore, because we don't have money until January – no matter how the individual is. And there are federal states that say: Work adaptation? – Well, You don't get it from us anymore! – Mr Minister, there must be at least an equalisation of all the federal states, which benefits will be paid again in the future! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Just as it is now, Minister, it is unbearable. That's really unbearable! The individual is almost required to operate more or less tourism, according to the motto: Where do I get what I need if I need it from the Federal Social Office? – By the way, the benefits are very different, and in some cases they are simply no longer available. There, Minister, is an urgent need for action. What has gone “in the pants, ” Mr Minister, is the possibility of insurance for caregivers. We have the statistics: I think there have been nearly 100 people who have used this model to accompany and give up their job to someone who is seriously ill and may be dying. This model has gone by! And that, Minister, we have predicted this because it was condemned simply not to be able to take hold of it. Then: If someone gives up his job today, perhaps to accompany mother-in-law, mother-in-law, father or anyone in the last months of life, he must at least know: What financial scope do I have when I take over this activity? – And he does not know that, and above all, she does not know, because 90 percent of the people who leave the profession in this context are women. They do not know what they get at that time, and therefore, Minister, they cannot do it either. And that's not why it did. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, you also urgently need to consider how you can stop the constant decline in the financing of aid and relief in the future, or should not go all at the expense of those concerned. Minister, social rehabilitation is also in the arsenal! It is hardly possible that if someone today has a so-called leisure accident and then wants to return to his own home, the financing of the appropriate adaptation is ensured. So most of these people have to go home! They do not voluntarily opt for a home, but they are just brought there because it seems impossible to ensure the funding for a bathroom conversion or a staircase lift. It seems to be a lot, much easier when 3 000 € are put in any home in the month, and the person concerned is then accommodated there for the next 20, 30 or 40 years, instead of perhaps securing 4,000, 5,000 € for an apartment adaptation. – I believe that this is a “wit” and, above all, it is a disaster for the individual concerned! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, the accident pension tax has still not stood out, because you know that accident pensioners had to tax their accident pension for 2003. There have been minimal opportunities to apply for grants et cetera, but all of this is a grumble – that's a embarrass! It is also necessary to reduce the accident pension tax for 2003! Mr Minister, you said you were committed to it at the time. – Please do so, too, so that the accident pension tax for 2003 will fall retroactively. – I rely on you, Minister, to do so! And if I say I rely on you, that's a threat! Because if I'm on you If you leave, I'll ask for it. That means: Go on the matter, it's got to be solved! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5053	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking as next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5072	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today we have had to make the serious accusation, especially by Mrs Silhavy, that we do not care what people do. In other words, the government does not care, the Members here in Parliament do not care about how people are doing. – This is really a very, very serious accusation, and I cannot imagine that Mrs Silhavy is really serious and has remained in an objective discussion with this accusation. If that were the case, Mrs Silhavy, I would have to give you this serious accusation, because: When you were still in the government, you have taken very serious measures, particularly in the social field, with your rehabilitation packages, as you have already said, very serious. For example, you reduced the care allowance in Stage 1 from 2 635 S to 2 000 S at the time of the month; they have deleted the care allowance in case of hospitalisation; They have introduced the health certificate fee; They reduced the allowance for disabled persons when they were in their homes; [[Abg. Mandak: But the SPÖ will at least fail!]] You have been self-retaining the spa and recreation stays – and I could still keep a whole list of such things to you. I am telling you this because you are so easily dealing with these accusations that we have nothing left for the people that there is social cold here. Remember, too, what you have done just to carry out a savings measure! It is only then that you, unfortunately, did not make these cuts in order to consolidate the budget – otherwise we would feel the impact – but you stopped some holes with it or made other expenditures and did not contribute to fiscal consolidation at all. We are making a policy of reform here, we are making a policy of budget consolidation to make your mistakes – your mistakes! – eradicate in the past! [[Call the SPÖ: What? What?]] [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. stupid.]] We are actually doing the policy you should have done, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I tell you again and again: We are making a policy aimed at securing pensions in the long term, ensuring health care in the long term, providing long-term support for families. All these are our intentions! And all this you have failed to do in the long term, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Come on. You're finally down from the high Ross you're sitting on with your allegations! Don't be unbroken with a raised index finger, but confess your guilt in the past, ladies and gentlemen! It's the same with the care allowance. – By the way, I can remind you: The care allowance has been introduced on the basis of the freedom of movement! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: such nonsense!]] Deputies! I think you weren't in Parliament at the time. [[Calls of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] 60 000 signatures have been handed over to me by the Civil Disability Association in front of Parliament. Mrs Haidlmayr, you do not know that because you were not in politics at the time. These signatures have been handed over to me at the time, and I have become an initiative. And then the introduction of the care allowance came in 1996. But you have never done a valorization of the care money, but, as I said, you have shortened it! Every valorization has been rejected. Unfortunately, they have taken a very, very rigid attitude from God and have made a very cold social policy. [[Calls of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Now the care allowance is increased. I already admit: I would also rather be 10 percent than 2 percent; I have to say that. But after all. You didn't even make the 2%. And in total, this 2-percent increase costs €40 million. You have to imagine that! The individual disabled, who gets only €10, will probably not cost €40 million, but as politicians, we are obliged to make a responsible policy in view of the scarce resources and to deal with the money. That is why I think we should accept this and acknowledge that this increase is now €40 million. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Haidlmayr, you said: No one needs to boast! It doesn't make anyone famous anyway. It is noted positively that there is this increase, and no one says that this is now a “century introduction”, but it is a sign. It is a sign of this Social Minister and the Federal Government that the disabled are worth much more than in the socialist-dominated government at the time. Please take note! I would also like to address my previous speaker, Mr Donabauer; unfortunately, he is not here. He made something sound through, which always sounds like when talking about the care money, namely: Distrust of the care providers, that is, those who get that into their hands. Mr Donabauer also said: We are on the right track in the reflections when the care providers really get the money. I do not think that the checks are necessary, but: If it is to be better monitored how the care allowance is used, it is necessary to control the facilities where the disabled are accommodated. I know that there are very serious misunderstandings in this area, especially as regards Vienna. There the control must take place, but not at the care payee himself. This constant discussion on the abuse of the care allowance in the hands of the needy I reject at all, because under this title the Social Democrats also very often wanted to cut the care allowance and I know what conditions are attached; at that time, Mrs Ederer, when she was still there, now she is sitting in Vienna. [[Abg. May. Worm: With Siemens!]] [[Abg. Broukal: For three years now!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Is also in Vienna!]] I would really ask that this distrust be taken away, because it is not justified by anything. It is also positive that the number of people with disabilities continues to increase, because this has created a large number of jobs and has supported a large number of facilities. I am very glad that these disabled billions have continued to be kept in the budget. Minister, I need You probably don't ask, but I'm still doing it: That you also pay great attention to the concerns of the disabled during the 2006 budget, because this is a group that is very difficult – at work, in leisure time, in the family, just everywhere – and that is why further financial support is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5236	Mrs Haidlmayr spoke in favour of an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, you make the actual correction from your place. 2 minutes speaking time. You are aware of the relevant rules of procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5257	Madam President. Mrs Partik-Pablé has claimed that the ÖZIV and the Freedoms would have been those who would have created the care allowance more or less or had the idea to do so. – This statement is incorrect! It was in October 1986 when the Austrian disability movement met in Absdorf and wrote this claim for the first time as a resolution and then introduced it to Parliament. And it was Minister Dallinger who took up this resolution in 1988 and formed the first working group in the Social Ministry to do so. Then other organisations, such as the ÖZIV and other disabled organisations, joined the demands of us, with the result that there has been the Care Money Act since 1.7.1993. – That’s the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5314	The next item is Mrs Csörgits' speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5338	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to come to Mr Tancsits, to point out that social policy has nothing to do with a social democratic policy. [[Abg. May. Tancsits: With a socialist!]] I can answer, Mr Tancsits, that your policy is billions of light-years away from a social policy and has absolutely nothing to do with the fundamental values of a Christian-social policy. Unfortunately, your group is very, very far away from that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Tancsits: You can't judge that at all!]] I would like to say to Mr Donabauer, because, among other things, he also quoted the USA and said that Austria has a better social system and a better pension system, and that we also have an excellent pension system within Europe: Yes, that's right! He did not say that the basic values and the basic positions were shaped and formed in the past thanks to strong Austrian trade unions, which are not so marked in other countries, and thanks to a strong social democratic party. What you are doing now is not reforming, but a dilettant ruin, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since today it has been stressed so often that, thanks to Black and Blue, people in Austria are much better, I can only say once again, Mr Dolinschek, that, since you are in the government, there have been more than 40 burdens in Austria, starting from the motorway vignette to the electricity tax and so on and so on, the only ones at the expense of the workers in that country, and that, of course, pension reform 2003 has also left their mark. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek]] More than 230 000 Austrians have very low retirement pensions, and thanks to their 2003 pension reform, this pension will be much lower and these people will receive much less money. This hard equalization fund, which you so large announced, Mr. Federal Minister, has been only a mercy act and really only a drop on the hot stone. You have to say that quite clearly. When you look at the budget, it becomes clear to you: It confirms our policy, because we have repeatedly said that cuts in pensions that have been acquired are not necessary. In your budget, it is also stated that the Federal contribution for self-employed persons is estimated at €3.7 billion. For pension expenses in the field of self-employed persons, the employees and employees following the ASVG, there are 19.1 percent contributions, for the occupational 58.0 percent, and for farmers, the pension allowance of the Federal Government is at least 88.4 percent. To this end, it must be said that this grant has also fallen in connection with the contributions to the ASVG. This is confirmed by our constantly debated argument that such cuts you made in 2003 were not necessary. You have expelled the pensioners in the truest sense of the word!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5419	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5437	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I really appreciate Mrs Csörgits as a very constructive discussion partner. If you, Mrs Csörgits, simply say here today that Austria would be in the field of social benefits and the social standard behind, I can only reject it: We are among the first three in all areas of family and social benefits in Europe – that is a fact! Mrs. Haidlmayr, I am pleased that you made a positive contribution at the beginning of the day and that work assistance has been positively assessed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, I would also like to refer once again to the care allowance. As a representative of the auxiliary work, I am pleased that this valorization is happening, and, Mrs. Haidlmayr, none of us, from the side of the government parties, wants to deceive someone or introduce anyone. On the contrary: We want to create good framework conditions, and I think this valorization was a truly legitimate requirement for those concerned, for the family, but also for the social organisations. It is a demand that goes in the right direction, and I would like – and we should all work on it constructively – that this valorization becomes a real annual valorization and a budgetary fixture. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's up to you! We've been demanding this for ten years.]] We should all work on this, and I believe that Mr. Federal Minister is also there on our side. So thank you also to him as a representative of the social services and those concerned! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Haidlmayr.]] That's great, I'm glad! This is something we should work on constructively. I think it is people who need care, and their families need appropriate framework conditions. Austria is a model in this area, and we will continue to do so in the future. 80 percent of the care services are provided in the family association, and very often the persons concerned have really reached the limit of their physical and psychological loadability. I am therefore pleased that this Federal Government is doing a lot in this area and is also pushing for family support projects. We do not need control, as I am with you, Mrs Partik-Pablé, but we need support and help for those affected. I believe that very important emphasis has been placed here. I would just like to mention the project of quality assurance in domestic care, Mr. Federal Minister, a good approach, which has helped more than 2,000 people who receive 3 to 7 levels of care, by a total of 16 qualified nurses, who have experienced the care situation, the quality of care and have been collected on the basis of a standardised report. From this we can draw many lessons, draw a lot of conclusions, and I think that is really professional and practical advice that we need very urgently and that ultimately also helps to improve the overall care situation. A good way, a right way! The fact is that care needs will increase rapidly in the next few years and that it is increasingly important that the interface between the stationary area and the extramural area works well and becomes even better. This is a very big challenge for politics, but also for all those who work in these areas. Therefore: This is where we should go! The fact is that 40 million € more are for care providers and for the self-pensions for care periods strong improvements. This cannot be discussed away as you try from the opposition. This is particularly important for women, because women are really the main victims here. I mentioned it earlier: 80 percent of care activities in the family, in the area of childcare, but also in the home care sector are performed by women. This is just great, and therefore it is also very important that improvements be made here, namely that insurance periods are regarded as periods of employment, i.e. that real pension contributions are justified. I believe that this is a real and important step, as well as an increase in insurance periods for the care of disabled children up to 40. Year of life. Family hospice – I can no longer go into it in detail now – is an important first step; it must continue here too. The other areas that have already been discussed here today can only be mentioned very briefly, such as the area of reconciliation between work and family. Through the pilot project, Mrs. Kuntzl, which you mentioned, €700 000 more are available for innovative, new childcare projects. You have said you will observe very closely what is being done here: Yeah, it's good that you do! – I think that offers many opportunities to initiate new projects: multi-lingual multilingual kindergartens and also innovative new childcare areas. As Mrs Mandak has referred to this subject, a very brief comment on it: In the 2005 budget, a total of €1.2 million is available for families in crisis situations for 373 advisory services in the area of mediation or parental and child support for families in divorce situations. That too is an important aspect, and I think that should be recognized as positive! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5495	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5513	Madam President. Minister! High house! Minister, I'm going to be To confront you today with two quotations from your house's reports and to build up my comments on this. One is a quote from the 2001/2002 Social Report, which reads as follows: "The more the difference between income-intensive and low-income employment occurs, the more effort social policy has to make." A sentence I like to agree with! I would also add him and say: It is an effort that not only social policy but above all economic and financial policy must take place. But in the short term, in the fight against symptoms, social policy is, of course, also required. We know at the latest from the recent presentation of the poverty report that we clearly have two phenomena to observe in Austria: First: Wealth in Austria is growing. Secondly, Poverty in Austria is growing. – A classic banishment of the shears, as you have addressed them, is understandable. Additional efforts would therefore be urgently required. However, I miss this, and perhaps you, Mr Minister, can then address it in an opinion. In particular, I should like to draw your attention to the three most vulnerable groups: First, 23 percent of single parents are at risk of poverty – and we know that the male formulation is only the completeness of the nomination, because the overwhelming majority of the single-parents in Austria are women. In other words, we have a group that is at risk of poverty, which is mostly composed of women. Secondly, we have the unemployment group: Of these, 23 percent are at risk of poverty. We discussed yesterday that unemployment is increasingly an unemployment of women. In other words, women are mainly concerned in the group of people at risk of poverty due to unemployment. And if you still know that in the area of the employed, i.e. those who have an employment income, women are to be found, especially in the low levels of income – in part-time workers, where women make up 32 percent, and in the case of small jobs, which do not in any way even make it possible to do more – you also know that the risk of poverty for women is high not only in unemployment, but even in the case of employment. The largest group of vulnerable people in Austria, however, represent pensioners, with 35 percent of those at risk of poverty. Again, we know – and we will be able to discuss this tomorrow, I suppose, even more thoroughly – that women have an under-average pension on equal terms to men, many women do not have an independent pension claim at all, and even in pensioners, women are largely more affected by poverty risk. I therefore wonder what you have to say about what you are doing as a Social Minister, what you are doing together with your Secretary of State, especially for women at risk of poverty in Austria, and I cannot really see anything in the budget explanations and not in the gender aspect of the budget. This brings me to a second quote that I do not want to keep from you. You had been asked to report on your budget, how it has different effects on men and women, and how it will reduce existing inequalities between men and women – perhaps at least gradually. I just mentioned the inequalities to you on the basis of an example. I do not now deal with very many other measures, such as emergency aid and the charging of partner income and so on; we may be able to discuss this elsewhere. But what you're going to do Gender aspect of the budget in your section is that as a measure of equality within the EU Presidency, you will make a family conference. - That's not stupid for you. It is a good idea to make a family conference, but it is not a measure of equality for women. I would like to hold on to this! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I also think it is a wonderful initiative to award family- and child-friendly communities and to be audited, but, Minister: What does this have to do with equality between women or perhaps women's kindness? – Or do I have to conclude that if you hear the word “woman” or “gener” automatically the drawer with “family” and “children” appears, as if there were no other task, no other meaning and no other content in the life of women? – You landed there in the wrong century, Minister! Come on. You're in our century! Make a sensible policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5556	Mr Böhmdorfer is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5574	Madam President. Dear Mr. Justice... - No: Minister of Social Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! – The promiseant is not quite incomprehensible, because the Ministry of Justice is responsible for the legalisation of consumer protection. This is also one of the problems one might think of: giving this consumer protection a permanent home. I was the Minister of Justice of the sixth Minister who was allowed to host the Consumer Protection Section – it was not always easy – and the Minister of Social Affairs is now the seventh. Perhaps, in the future, a federal government will also have the idea of allowing its own Ministry of Consumer Protection in that country, because of the importance of this matter. It would be important – and probably also a step towards depoliticization. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals, the ÖVP and the Greens.]] This is because consumer protection in Austria is of course interesting. 25 years ago, this law was created – a lot of smile, a lot of fight – and it has now been established. The provisions are a little fragmented in many side effects. and consumer protection provisions are also provided in the Banking Act. The Ministry of Justice is just about to codify this matter so that it becomes clear. This will be a very important step. But consumer protection is not only the legal activity, but – if, for example, one looks at the gallery here, one sees the most recent consumers to be protected – a matter in which, in addition to legislation, one must consider the execution of consumer protection measures, the product tests, the food tests et cetera, the price control, and also the contracts that are concluded, because, for example, banks of constant temptation, already conclude “favorable” contracts with the young people, and these are then on a lifetime, sometimes not even voluntarily, their customers. There is also the problem of consumer protection of information – information through a magazine. And now the question of the organization – and this is the start of a private consumer protection ministry – comes up: Consumer protection is currently integrated in the Consumer Information Association. I remember: There, the core areas are represented by the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Agriculture, the Trade Union Confederation and the Chamber of Commerce. These are the core consumer protectionists of the nation, and in reality they always have to represent each other's conflicting interests – that's not to be overlooked –: Not always, when the Chamber of Labour makes a price control, that's what the Chamber of Commerce likes to see. Not always when a product test is carried out, the Chamber of Commerce likes to see it. Not represented in the Consumer Information Association are, for example, the seniors. It is 1.6 million people in this country who, due to the automatic loss of membership, are not integrated in the Chamber of Workers or in the Chamber of Commerce and so on, who are therefore not in any way organized to protect consumers. All my attempts to move in here have failed. I wish you, Minister of Social Affairs, that you might get this question on the table and consider how to expand the protection of senior consumers. It is concentrated in Austria and currently not organized. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. stupid.]] Not all activities carried out by consumer protection can be sold – although you can sell a lot, but you can't do it because the inter-blocking interests are opposed to it. The information is for sale and profit. The “Consumer” newspaper is also the big source of consumer information, which can cover 70 percent of the expenses of this association. The rest is aid from the social partners and the state – €1.2 million from the social partners and €1.6 million from the state. Now, because of the blocking interests, one deliberately refuses to make the commodity tests and other investigations against charges. I don't know if it's good. I personally do not think it is right because independent consumer protection would be very essential for this country. For example, if one did not want a ministry, but that would also be beneficial, if one were to set up a foundation that would support this foundation with the appropriate capital, namely, once and for a while and not by means of annual tender grants, and would make it an unpolitical, subject-political consumer protection, free of the dependence on the Chamber of Workers, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. chamber and so on, as listed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5659	The next item is the speech by Mr Keck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5677	Madam President. Federal Minister! If you look at the social security chapter in the 2005 budget, you will immediately discover the care money as the thickest posts there. Mr Minister, you estimate €1 391 million for this, allowing an increase of about 3 percent of the amount compared to the previous year. Positive is – and I really welcome this – that you are at last ready to raise the care allowance. This increase was already urgently needed. But, Minister, a performance like this must be sufficiently taught. But this is precisely where the crux lies with this increase. Mr Minister, are you actually of the opinion that this increase is sufficient? Are 2% increase really enough? And in addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have to ask if you have considered the increase in absolute amounts sometime: In the care level 1 the increase is 2.90 €, in the care level 2 the increase is 5.40 €. Ladies and gentlemen! Statistics tell us that the purchasing power loss is about 16 percent, and that's a lot. Expressed in the urgently needed assistance and care services, this means that many can no longer afford to wash, turn and turn at night, help with taking the medication or transfer aid after a hospital visit. Moreover, are you actually aware that many of your actions have an interaction? Even today, the care allowance is an essential element for the financing of a retirement home or nursing home, and despite the inclusion of pension and care allowance, for example, 73 percent of all residents in Linz still have to be shot by the city of Linz more than €14 million a year, so that those who need it most urgently will receive care around the clock at the highest level. With this attitude, ladies and gentlemen, you are risking that this system will soon be working together, in addition to where, through your so-called pension harmonisation or the 2003 pension reduction action, you will also reduce old-age income and thus create a much larger funding hole for social assistance associations. Ladies and gentlemen! With this year's budget, decide not only to increase this almsful, but to ensure sustainable security, namely a mandatory annual valorization, linked to the inflation rate – and not a sporadic increase after government approval!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5720	Next, Mr Keussnigg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5741	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! In the few minutes available to me, I would like to try to do something like a total of the social state of Austria or the social location of Austria. I think we are moving in the absolute top field in an international comparison. I also believe that this debate did not really criticise the foundations of this social policy. I'm very glad. We are in the process of converting and securing this social network and thus making it sustainable. [[Abg. Riepl: Take off!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a matter of much more than what is stated in the social chapter in social policy. Of course, safeguarding pensions is at the heart of every social policy, of course it is a high and highest level of care and of course it is about supporting and integrating people with disabilities. Of course, the fight against poverty, which has already been repeatedly discussed today, is also of enormous importance. However, a good part of social policy is taking place elsewhere in our political categories. I would like to be very specific and conscious about budgetary policy, structural policy and reform policy. No one can be social as the one who has little debt. What could we do with the €7 billion we are currently paying in interest year after year in social policy? What could we... – That this debt has been inherited, but there should really be no discussion about it. [[Abg. Riepl: Then the Minister of Finance is unsocial! He made most of the debts!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] What can we do with this money in family policy, in combating poverty and in providing care? No one can be social as the one who deals with the money reasonably. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This also leads directly to tax policy, to tax reform; I would like to say that once again. Of 4.8 million payers, 2.5 million do not pay taxes. So this is one of the most important social policy building blocks. We have raised this from a high level. Show me another country in which almost half of all taxpayers do not pay taxes! In the context of the tax reform, it is particularly worth mentioning the relief of lower and medium incomes, the increase of the negative tax from €60 million to €90 million. These people don't just pay a tax, they get money out. The discharge of more than one million pensioners by €450 million and our family policy – all of this is comprehensive social policy, comprehensive basic care, and widespread poverty reduction. And a last building block that is currently particularly up-to-date: health policy. Health policy is undervalued in the debate on pensions. I believe that today for people who are old in retirement, health policy is almost as important as the limit on pensions. There, too, the choices are set correctly. The Republic of Austria spends – we have already heard this – 19.5 billion € of the social budget, 30 percent of the total budget for social benefits. I therefore conclude with the question: If that's too little for you, you have to tell us where to change in the social chapter or where to save: in safety, in science and research, in infrastructure or otherwise where? – You owe us an answer. [[Abg. May. Trunk: For example, no war equipment!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5825	As the next speaker, Mr Lacner spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5843	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the ÖVP! I can now inform you of a statement made by no one other than Wolfgang Schüssel in 1995. He said: My People's Party, the Party of Leopold Figl, Leopold Kunschak and Julius Raab, will never allow the elderly, sick, disabled and pensioners to be taken away in our country. Here, on behalf of the People's Party, I give a social guarantee, which also means doing everything possible and secure to maintain our social system in the future. - Quote. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] Mr President, you should not clap before a speech is over, because you will now pass away immediately. [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: Don't you want any intermediate applause?]] Mr President, this was a recognised basic consensus in this Republic in 1995. To this basic consensus, the SPÖ is still standing because, as today, it has its authority and secured social cohesion in this Republic, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This was, as has been said, the ÖVP's claim in 1995. – And now to reality: Since the year 2000, you have left this way and have opened up to your counter-model, your model of the social state, if you want to do so, to realize your way into the elbow society – that is, away from this important and right compromise in this matter that has made this country so big and strong. Today, as we still have enough opportunity to discuss pension reform tomorrow, I will show on the basis of legal health care how arbitrary you have left the consensus mentioned earlier in this area. You have consistently undermined legal health insurance since 2001 through legal measures, ladies and gentlemen, to move towards a reduction in benefits at the end of the path – tag glasses. [[Abg. Steibl: Do you have a health insurance glasses? I don't think so! That's a designer glasses!]] They have burdened people with self-maintenance of €1,541 million in health care. So away from public funding to private financing, Mrs Steibl. These are facts that you can't even discuss away. [[Abg. Steibl: Stay with the truth!]] – Yes, this is the truth that you are of course not putting up well, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is your truth!]] [[Abg. Lentsch: We do everything we can!]] The final goal, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, is probably the destruction of statutory health insurance to the present extent, namely to basic care, a model that you have long preferred. But they should also tell people what that means: Basic supply and all other services must be purchased privately. Ladies and gentlemen! You have to go this way alone. Social democracy is not available for this path!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5955	Mrs Fuhrmann's next speech. They have imposed a four-minute voluntary limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e5974	Madam President. Minister! Dear High House! I would like to address the aspect of generations in this chapter, which has not yet been discussed. I do not need to add that demographic development presents many and major challenges. If today every fifth is 20 years old and it will only be every seventh in 2050, whereas every third party is over 60 years old, then these are not problems – to which we often make them – but rather challenges. I believe we are also doing very well with these challenges at the moment. I would like to take three areas and three consequences. The first point – we will see, in particular, at the discussion tomorrow, how you judge this – is the power-political consequence. That's just about finding out and analysing: Who determines in Austria where it goes, who determines politics here, who gives the tone and whose interests are most taken into account? . I invite you today to address party-political ideology and client interests and above all to put the interests of youth in the foreground here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mandak: That's what ÖVP says!? That's interesting!]] [[Abg. Riepl: The applause shows it! He's not big!]] I'll warn you about one: Don't try to argue with plattites like, we're because we're for the boys and their future, for something or for something! It's not just about the future. Finally, understand that youth has not only a future but also a present! We now live in this, that is why we have to shape it now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, the labour market sector. You mentioned earlier that there is the great problem of unemployment, youth unemployment. That's right. Although it is often said that youth unemployment is the lowest in Austria, we know that each individual and every individual, a youth who is unemployed, is one too much. However, we do not talk about it, but we have already taken steps in the right direction, with 800 new teaching places that have been created stately, which helps 800 young people individually and directly. Everyone has something of it, and that is the right way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP, as well as congratulation with the liberals.]] Third point: Today it has also been mentioned very often about compatibility between family and profession. We must also insist that we – I believe we all sit here – feel that it should be possible to have children at every stage of our life. Policy has the task of creating the framework conditions, and it has done so with child care. [[Abg. Oils: Do you really believe that?]] I am very glad that even if the federal government has to do something here, the services of the FLAF can be maintained. We must emphasise that Austria spends on average 29 percent of GDP on social benefits. This FLAF is particularly important for young people – whether it be the school book action, the school-free travel, whether it be school travel or apprenticeship aid. This is something that gives support to every individual young person who is double burdened by a second accommodation, due precisely to training at the teaching centre. He still has to be able to make his way there, so to speak. In this area there is a need for direct support, which is also granted. This will be ensured in the future. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is also important to me is the process around the White Paper on Youth. This may not be known to many, but a guideline will also be drawn up at European level on how European youth policy should look. This is also taken into account in the budget, i.e. we are also setting accents. One thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: Youth policy must not be treated in isolation, youth policy has long been a cross-cutting matter! I would ask you to take this into account.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6061	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6079	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One of my predecessors, Federal Minister other than Dr. Böhmdorfer, said some right things, but some things have to be corrected. Mr Böhmdorfer said that the Consumer Information Association would not be independent. High house! I inform you that Austria is being envied by this association internationally. This Consumer Information Association is an invention of the social partners. The history of the Consumer Information Association is a success story, and the Social Democratic Group is committed to the activity of this association and to the work done by its colleagues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Consumer protection is a cross-sectional matter. Members who work there are confronted with civil law issues, criminal matters, public-law issues and food safety issues. And similar is the problem at the federal level. Mr Böhmdorfer has already pointed out that matter is fragmented, divided into different ministries. Federal Minister Chief is only responsible for one area, namely the Product Safety Act. All other areas are handled in other Federal Ministries. I think you know our position: We should ensure that consumer protection is given a home, as Mr Böhmdorfer meant. And there are different approaches: a Federal Ministry of Education, perhaps or – this is our proposal – a Committee on Consumer Affairs here in this House. In my view, it is not understandable that consumer law issues in the banking sector are dealt with in the financial committee, that telecommunications problems are dealt with in the Transport Committee, that food problems are dealt with, that drug problems are dealt with in the health committee, and that data protection issues are dealt with in the Constitutional Committee. And this list continued. Think about it: We could really move something together on key issues, such as the indebtedness of young people – today a lot of young people here in the house –. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Socialist Group will be able to make a request in this House shortly. We are on the side of consumer protection, we stand for the Consumer Information Association. Federal Minister! Here you can have us as a partner, but: If you take action against the VKI and question it, you have us as an irreconcilable opponent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6133	The next item is Mrs Marek's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6152	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The fact that child care facilities are an essential aspect for the compatibility of family and profession is certainly undisputed here, with opinions far apart in the last few weeks with regard to the necessary extent and the necessary duration of use, unfortunately, polemics are always on the agenda. Although childcare is a national issue in Austria, State Secretary Haubner has provided a special funding budget of €700 000 for special childcare projects for the coming year. That is exactly what we need, especially in terms of demographic development and structural conditions in rural areas. We have nothing of it if we have kindergartens in every congregation, which are half empty because there are too few children. Therefore, brain malt and imagination are asked how to create comprehensive care opportunities for all age groups, especially in rural areas. And in spite of the country's competence, the federal government is setting an important emphasis on this funding budget. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dolinschek.]] This will make the development of childcare rates even better since 2000 than has been the case so far. If you look at the figures from 1995 to 1999, the rates for the two- to five-year-olds have increased on average by 1.1 percent per year, but from 2000 onwards by almost 1.6% per year – and this despite the much-priced kindergarten billion before 2000. In the light of the current SPÖ education programme, I have found very interesting demands in the field of childcare, which I can only agree to in a large part. I can only support the demand for individual pedagogical concepts, the greatest possible flexibility and loving care and reduction of group sizes. [[Abg. May. Trunk: Super! Please vote!]] It is a shame, however, that where the SPÖ is responsible for government, this is not even implemented in the approach. Somehow, I also feel that the conflict between the Bundes-SPÖ and the Wiener SPÖ is happening again. The highly praised childcare in Vienna is the most expensive Austrian-wide, what you can do despite social staggering – before You can't bet me again, you can't bet. Childcare in Vienna is clearly ideologically motivated. They have nothing on the hat with offers that meet the wishes of children and parents individually. The word “mother of the day” does not even appear in the vocabulary of the competent councillor Laska, although this form of care is considered to be optimal for parents up to two years old or by families. Urban childcare in Vienna is also much more expensive for taxpayers than private. 48 percent of all childcare places are public, which receive 70 percent of the funds. 52 percent of all childcare places are private and with 30 percent of funds also work better than public: Vienna money destruction machine – as so often. Ladies and gentlemen! We use the funds more efficiently, with a better result and, above all, with better ideas than you, where you are designing, only accentuated structures.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6197	The next speaker was Mr Dobnigg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6216	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, it is a sad fact that the policy of this black and blue federal government is increasingly degrading our pensioners to bitters and alms recipients. , because pensions have not been adapted to the price for years and the pensioners have been – this is verifiable – actually burdened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Elmwall]] In the next few years, you want to decide on massive cuts from ÖVP and FPÖ here. Since the government of Schüssel took office in 2000, the income of pensioners has been shamelessly devalued. [[Abg. Steibl: You know for yourself that this is not true!]] At a 1000 € gross-pension, the reduction in value is already 800 €, Mrs Steibl, or around 5.5 percent. It is also verifiable that, since this government worked and worked – or, better said, ran – there have been almost 50 different charges and increases in fees. [[Abg. Ellmauer: Are you talking about the city of Vienna?]] The result of this is again less pension for more stress, and this leads to the fact that, unfortunately, more and more poverty – which continues to rise – is returning to Austria. This picture also fits your recent rejection of the heating grant for poorer people. [[Abg. Steibl: This is country!]] You also want to stick to unacceptable accident pension taxation, which was seen a few weeks ago and months ago. They continued to tax the accident pensioners in 2003. They must pay an accident pension tax, although the Constitutional Court has abolished the provision in this regard. They did so just in 2003, in that year called the year of the disabled. They trample from ÖVP and FPÖ on the principle of trust, which is primarily the responsibility of those people who have worked and also paid for decades in the faith of a secure pension. [[Abg. Dr. One: You can say that!]] But they punish in particular those people who have built up our Austria under the most difficult conditions and in the most modest of all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's pensioners have already brought enough financial victims. Today, the inflation rate has reached the highest level of 2.6% in recent years. Our older generation has the right, I think, to enjoy their evening in dignity and propriety. You from ÖVP and FPÖ take this right with your policy. This is unsocial, it is unchristian, and that is, as I mean, very, very embarrassing. That is why I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6325	The motion for a resolution just tabled by Mr Dobnigg on the protection of the value of pensions has been properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Mag, Federal Minister, spoke next time. Chief. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6347	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to put two things to the meeting on the questions raised by the pension problem: First: The compensatory allowance rates for single couples and the compensation entitlements for married couples have been increased more in recent years than in previous years. In this way, we have finally made an improvement for those who were previously referred to in the Jargon of Parliament as the most socially in need. Secondly, In this year's pension adjustment for 2005 will last with the net pension adjustment introduced in 1995, which has been understood by no one, except mathematicians, in broad sections of the population. This pension adjustment, as stated by the Pension Commission, will pay inflation from August of the previous year to August of this year from 1.5 percent to the level of the median pension – without widows and orphans – at the full level of the inflation rate with a uniform rate of €10.30. Ladies and gentlemen! Once there was consensus with Social Democracy that the Semmel should be equally expensive for every pensioner, whether he is now head of section, entrepreneur or minimum pensioner. I see that this is a principle that comes back to us. I should also like to point out that there is a draft law on pension harmonisation in Parliament, which provides for a 2007 pension adjustment with the annual VKI indication, based on the agreements with the social partners and with the two government parties. The request in question has already been fulfilled in Mr Dobnigg's request, since the draft, already available in Parliament for decision-making, contains this regulation for 2007. [[Abg. Silhavy: What about 2005 and 2006?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you are talking about the heating aid, you should not forget that, as part of the financial compensation, which is also available for decision-making in the High House, and in agreement with the Federal Government, over €300 billion of tax money has been provided for the federal states. It is therefore only right and reasonable that the constitutional tasks are carried out by the federal states, whether they are heating subsidies or childcare facilities, and not always tried to push the federal government into the shoes. Ladies and gentlemen! According to my understanding of the constitutional situation, one has to be there as a National Council and as a Federal Council for the interests of the Republic and not for regional interests. You can have a different pair of glasses, but the glasses you should wear should, from my point of view, be the ones I mentioned. [[Abg. Oils: Are there “constitution glasses ” already from the cash register?]] I should now like to talk about consumer protection, because a number of ladies and gentlemen have been dealing with this issue here. I agree with all those who criticised the fragmentation of competences. I believe that bringing together the competences would be very useful and also appropriate to improve in this area. I said in the Committee that the establishment of an own Committee on Consumer Affairs would also make sense. We also have a consumer protection representative in the European Union with the Commissioners. Why should we not have corresponding institutions in the national Parliament to discuss these issues? But consumer protection matters are not only related to the Product Liability Act, so we have also taken initiatives in many other areas. We have had more than 230 legal proceedings pending. At 8 we had a comparison, 6 we lost, and the rest we won. The dispute amounted to more than €30 million. In the interests of consumers, I would like to see the request of the Minister of Justice on model processes and the simplification and approval in this area soon be made by the Justice Committee and adopted here in the House. Now on the issue of consumer protection in the fields of banking and insurance: One should, please, not forget, also on the part of the Socialist Group, that the contracts with terms of 20 to 40 years, which are making problems today in the light of the changed view of consumer protection, have been concluded at a time when financial market supervision for this area has seen the framework or the terms and conditions differently, because they are private contracts, where the intervention is particularly silent and the Judicatur is particularly unclear, and this still does so today. What the financial supervision of Mr Edlinger or Mr Klima or Mr Vranitzky at the time has seen as correct and consistent with consumer protection is often considered no more than in line with consumer protection, although the term may continue for seven or eight years. It is similar with life insurance, with different savings models and with other models and products offered there. This makes the situation particularly difficult for consumer protection. There is one way or another for the individual who has been harmed to solve this together with the VKI on the negotiation path. Some things need to be improved and consumer-friendly in the future through changes in business conditions, together with financial market supervision. But I should also like to point out that the involvement of private contracts in many other areas, such as the Austrian Federal Railways, is always held by social democracy as something not permissible. I cannot understand why it is then seen differently in other areas. However, I will continue to try to enforce myself on the way to negotiation where we see difficulties for consumers, difficulties in transparency. But this often does not go from day to day at the negotiating table, because one is also in the tension field to use the tax money where one can achieve a high return on the court path – saying: a profit – in the interests of consumers. Ladies and gentlemen! It has also been asked here the question of what was happening at Böhler at the time. It should not be forgotten that in 1989, in an economically difficult situation, the former Buhler-Pensionists were forced to make a renunciation declaration in the short term, in which they had to purchase discounts at the pension. Most of them have done it in the wrong way to save the company and the jobs for young people in this region. Then years later, when Böhler wrote profits again and the continuation of the Böhler-Pension would have been possible, this area has already been evicted, and judicial efforts to improve it are now opposed to legal findings against which I cannot, as the administrative body of this state, as the Federal Minister bound by the laws of that state. But one thing I would like to say clearly: The removal from the circumstances at that time and on the basis of the consultation at that time was not carried out under a black and blue government, but exclusively under the direction of the then representatives of the Ministry of Finance and those responsible for the national industry at the time. You can even see in the annals of Parliament which group these two gentlemen had heard at the time.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6398	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Reported on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes' speaking time. First of all, the case to be corrected, then the corrected one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6422	Madam President. Mrs Marek said earlier in her speech that the word “mother” does not appear with the Deputy Mayor of Vienna, Mrs. Laska. That's what I need to correct. It's like this: Since Mrs. Laska works as vice-bourgeois champion, the day's mothers have been raised, and there are currently 100 active day mothers in Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6456	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Fassleven. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6475	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For four and a half years now, we have a government coalition of the People's Party and the Freedom Party, and it has not only been a social priority at this time, but in fact the reform of the entire Austrian social system has been started with the aim of creating a modern social system, developing the proven Austrian social system so that it is sustainable that it is future-proof and that it is generation-friendly. [[Abg. Dr. One: Too long!]] [[Abg. Riepl: Social position, not focus!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It should be expected that, in a situation where on the one hand, a party that essentially designed social policy for four and a half decades, has even dominated long distances, is in opposition and on the other hand there is such a period of reform, one of the most exciting social debates that can be imagined. But what do you experience? – Actually, from the sides of the opposition a mourning game. So far, eight people from the opposition have been here at the speaker's desk, and none of them has presented only one concept! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Sad! Very sad!]] Except for superficial criticism of any government action, nothing has come. [[Abg. Brosz: The budget is on the agenda!]] Is that not an eminent evidence of poverty for the entire social democracy? As an employee representative, I would generate if my party were unable to present a concept in the social field. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Should I bring you a coffee to make you feel better? Or is it?]] I would now like to outline in a few words what it really is about. It is about making the pension system future-proof and generation-friendly. We have actually achieved this with three pillars that we have built. It may be possible to argue about details, but that in the future there will be a strong state pillar, namely the pension from pension insurance, and at the same time an employee care and also the provision of the future, that cannot be disputed. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Who can afford it!]] This already serves as an example internationally. The same is true in health care. If we had done nothing else four years ago than simply submit the demand to increase the contributions, nothing would have happened. Now we are in the middle not only in a reform process, but also in a reform discussion that will continue and which will probably also have to lead to significant changes in the future that will secure the health system. The same is true in the field of disability policy and family policy: a catalogue of services that can really be seen! I wish for the rest of this debate nothing but that I finally get a concept of myself presented by the Social Democrats. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: They don't have that!]] It's a shame if that doesn't happen! I ask you to: Use You have this opportunity and show us some of your ideas and ideas about how you want to shape social policy in Austria in the future, not a social policy on debt, but one that is feasible! [[Abg. Reheis: We have the budget debate right now!]] We will be grateful to you for each proposal, because you make here, and we will praise it. I guarantee you that!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6616	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6635	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the start of this federal government, Chancellor Schüssel announced that he wanted to make Austria the most child-friendly and youthful country in the world. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Only: The previous term of office – four lost years, as I say – of which Mr Fassleven has just spoken, has not been used for this, neither by you, Mr Minister, nor by your colleagues in government. This will be particularly evident in your department, Minister. This can be seen from a closer look at the situation of organisations dealing with child welfare and youth welfare. These organizations are truly great in many areas. Especially when it comes to violence in the family, organisations such as the child protection centres, the parent-child centres, associations such as Möwe in Vienna or Mafalda and TARA in Graz – you know these associations, Mrs. Colleague – are simply indispensable, because there are highly qualified employees working for victims of violence by providing process support. [[Abg. Steibl: Very well secured!]] There, psychologically trained professionals work up the experience with the whole environment. In addition, these professionals do preventive work, which is quite, very important, by going to schools and kindergartens and by teaching parents, teachers and kindergartens how they can only recognize abuse cases and how they should behave if the suspicion of abuse occurs, and how to raise children to self-confident people who can also say no. I mean, that's a very, very important work, which you can't judge high enough, so I would like to thank the employees of these organizations and also the youth welfare authorities for their great commitment. [[It is a pleasure to see the SPÖ and the Greens, as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] You should, I think, also thank you, my Ladies and gentlemen on the right side of this House. I myself come from the advice of women and families and know the situation of these organisations from my own experience, and I have also asked myself how these organisations are doing, and the answers were really disillusioned, because everyone has said that they have big financial problems, that they are forced to reduce staff, although they cannot meet the need for advice, because the use increases. Unfortunately, prevention work is suffering very much. The financial losses, Mrs Steibl, are due not only to a lack of federal funding – you have corrected Mrs Mandak in this regard today – but also to a reduction in the land and part of the municipal funds, as the countries and municipalities have to deliver surpluses in fulfillment of the Stability Pact and stop the holes in the Federal budget. [[Abg. Steibl: Is there not the SPÖ Landesrat Flecker in the Styria? The money is only in party-political layers!]] Here again, this federal government makes itself easy: It simply lets the countries and communities announce the bad news and cleans up. Mr. Federal Minister, you call yourself Minister for Social Security and Generations. I would ask you to finally live up to this title, because a lot of time will probably not be left for you!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6708	The next item is Mrs Riener's speech. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6727	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs Grossmann, I can only join in thanking the youth welfare staff – in the official social work, but also in the organisations. As far as finance is concerned, however, I must already point out to you that Mr Flecker is responsible for this in the Styrian Council, and this is known to be a social democrat. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to say to Mrs Haidlmayr and Mr Keck – Mrs Haidlmayr is not in the room right now, I ask her to make this point – that: [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] It's not always about the valorization of the care allowance. Valorization is okay, but it is also about the care allowance classification. As a result, I observe, especially in social work and in the social field, that in Austria, similar cases between the East and the West are classified very differently. I am convinced that Mr Bundesminister, Head of State, is already considering this change of regulation to include care professionals in the review and will take action in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But now to my area: I am very concerned – and I am also very glad that there is an increasing interest in parental education that parents take the assistance measures, the parental education measures. 15 years ago it was discussed again and again that for all possible activities one needs training, a driver's license, but to raise the children one ultimately does not need such a thing. That the budget approach has been increased from € 730 000 to € 1.1 million is very encouraging and a clear sign. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, it is important to support parents in their educational work, to improve their sense of children or to give them safety. They often have a good feeling themselves, but they lack security. This is to be given to them in the day-to-day education. Another budget approach has also been significantly increased, from €363,000 to €600 000 – this is a short one today – in relation to parental and child support in divorce and separation situations. As I hear from social work, the new possibility of common care always creates conflicts in day-to-day co-operation, not only when it comes to the right to visit or the rules of care. The fact that children and parents are helped to deal well with these conflicts is ultimately a good investment in the future, also in the direction of health and self-help. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, not to deny these people this assistance and to agree to this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6791	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Trunk. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e6810	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) To my previous speakers and to the budget approaches: It is a fact – and I would like to thank the former members of the government, the former Minister for Women Barbara Prammer, their predecessors and, above all, the former Minister for the Interior Caspar One – that there were budgetary approaches and commitment among the ministers just mentioned, which were aimed at working in that family area in political responsibility, where family is in the shadow of our society, where violence is happening – a violence for which people are not always solely responsible, but which is unfortunately supported and supported by our society. Budgetary approaches have been set up there, where infrastructure has been created. This government is doing a little further, but there is no step towards improving quality. That's why I think: The truth the honor! I say thank you to those who were in this area of initiative, out of the mind and out of the heart. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is very often also the debates on violence in the family and outside the family, as follows: The subject becomes striking when there are headlines – in the truest sense of the word – that then trigger political concern. But You know: The issue alone is too little as a political guide. What we need – very urgently, beyond Sunday's speeches, consecrations and the like! – an overall social consensus is that prevention of violence in language, including in political culture, and also prevention of physical violence, must be an absolute priority. [[Abg. Steibl: Just you say that! That's where the SPÖ has to pack himself by the kick!]] Political culture can also be learned! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: You don't even stick to the truth, Mrs. Colleague!]] I say to you on the subject of ‘political culture’ if you now shout: It's all about what's going on! [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: When do you start?]] [[Abg. Rossmann: We will remind you!]] You should go inside! There is a great need for action in the areas of victim protection, development, prevention for a more peaceful and non-violent society. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: You're right!]] [[Abg. Steibl: We support this!]] The policy pursued by this Federal Government is in fact against it. That is, working time schemes that no longer allow families to do relationship work, because they only have a common address, but no time for relationship work, represent a policy against families and not for families. This is a policy that promotes violence and does not prevent it. [[Abg. Steibl: You do not want to represent the working time law, Mrs Colleague! This has been the case since the ÖVP-SPÖ government! Wrong bet!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Chief.]] The last point, Mr Minister, is that you are talking to me in the back of the ear: I do not want to thank you for being a former woman's minister for the new building of the women's house in Klagenfurt. [[Call the ÖVP:Clar why you don't want the Ambrozy!]] I thank you for that! [[Abg. Steibl: But?]] I do not thank you for the discharge of your promise with regard to the financial resources, and I would like to ask your successor, Mr Rauch-Kallat, to present yourself and to make use of the financial means promised a long time ago, finally, through a joint effort, to come to the Klagenfurt Frauenhaus or the account set up for this. [[Abg. Lens: That's already transferred!]] In this sense, I'm trying to find out that we'll perhaps settle the old debt next year. [[Abg. Lentsch: That's already going over the Semmering Tunnel!]] – I am chairman of the Kärntner Frauenhaus and I know every account donation movement on Heller and Pfennig. But I am pleased when the money is already there, and please include in the Minutes that the colleague has said it has already been transferred. I am pleased about the “old ” 800 000 S for the Frauenhaus Carinthia. – Thank you for your commitment!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7025	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Grossmann in word. Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7047	Madam President. Mrs Riener has made the Landesrat Flecker responsible for cuts in the social field in Styria, guilty or responsible. [[Abg. Steibl: She didn't say that!]] - That's not right! [[Abg. Steibl: This is not an actual correction!]] Landesrat Flecker can only pass on the funds provided by the competent finance councillor. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7111	Mrs Grossmann, that was a political assessment and not an actual correction. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] I would ask everyone to comply with the Rules of Procedure in the actual amendments. The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7146	Madam President. Minister! High house! In the social budget, there are numerous important labour market policies. It is very important that disabled people receive more jobs, and there is sufficient budgetary coverage. A new measure that has been put in place is personal assistance at the workplace. This also makes it possible for disabled people with higher care needs to be able to find equivalent employment. This support is now also possible throughout Austria. An important objective of employment policy must be to open up new fields of work for disabled people, to remove them from the old professional clinics, to allow blind people to become only masseurs, to become porters, and to become deaf people to become tailors. We also want to look at professional careers specifically by deaf people. My colleague Alfred Brader made a request for an evaluation yesterday. We believe that there is a need for action to improve training and the framework conditions. [[I should like to congratulate the EIA and the representatives of the Free and Greens.]] Recognition of sign language plays an important role for deaf people. This is not only a question of education but also a question that determines the entire environment of life. The Subcommittee will discuss very comprehensive measures to this end. There is consensus on the constitutional recognition of sign language, and in order to implement it quickly, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[I should like to congratulate the EIA and the representatives of the liberals, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now let's take a little time for a little sign language course: Yesterday I came too late, the interpreters were already gone. [[The speaker points to the sign language interpreter standing next to the speaker's desk.]] An important political word is the cover these days. There is a loss lid, there are also beer lids on which you can calculate one or the other, and if you telephone the phone in plenary, you get one from the president on the lid.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7247	I note that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Huainigg is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and under negotiation. The next item is Mrs Binder's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7268	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Marek, one word only to you: I think it is very risky that you will qualify the public childcare facilities and thus also the staff there. [[Abg. Marek: I don't have that!]] I don't think that's what the Vienna kindergartens deserve! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They found a lack of quality, and that's a flat-rate conviction. In the final consequence, you will also condemn the employees there. [[Abg. Marek: This is a question of group size, there are many aspects!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The decisions you make as government parties, above all also the decided burdens, have a lasting impact on the families. [[Abg. Steibl: Excuse me, Mrs Colleague! What are the burdens when the budget is raised?]] – Stresses, Mrs Steibl, have been 43 in number over the last four years. If I can only quote two examples: the increase in the vignette and the increased energy taxes. [[Abg. Lentsch: That was the ASFINAG!]] – These loads also affect the families. Most of the funds made available to families come from the FLAF, which has been deficient since 2003. Youth and seniority measures are only a fraction of the total budget. The fact is, however, that the funds are not getting less, but they are about the distribution of existing resources and above all about the priorities of policy. Federal Minister! In an answer to a question at the Budget Committee meetings, you said that key funding priorities were projects on family cultures. In my opinion, this culture is about dealing with the people who live together, having responsibility for each other and shaping their lives together. It is about families in different forms and in different areas of life. Mothers and fathers have a partnership and equal role within their family association or want to achieve such a role, but the fathers are often excluded from this very social process or cannot perceive this role for a variety of reasons – that from the point of view that more and more men – fathers! – want to play an active role in the lives of their children – a desire that is supported and supported by many sides. – That is why my and our full support for the demand for a month of fatherly protection, especially in the current budget debates! Active fatherhood, ladies and gentlemen, means to love his child and to show and make him feelable. However, “man” takes time – time, which can only be guaranteed and guaranteed by legal regulations. Justice between the sexes and a full life with children and children will only be possible if fathers begin to accept the care and care of their children – the sooner, the better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: But you already know that the fathers... child care money can get!]] The first month after birth, in our opinion, and also in the opinion of many others, offers men a unique opportunity to actively participate in the development of the child from the first day after birth and thereby also to relieve mothers and women. [[Abg. Steibl: Yes, that's still the mother protection!]] Ladies and gentlemen from the government parties! Give your heart a boost and join our suggestions! Children need their fathers, women need relief, and society needs stable, safe and harmonious families. [[Abg. Steibl: But you already know, the men also have the possibility to babysitting! It's the mother's protection before!]] That, colleagues, would be absolutely fair and absolutely fair!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7405	Mrs Hellerer's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7424	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to Mrs Silhavy's debate. That has claimed that farmers are very preferred to pensions due to the high federal grant, although, of course, she knows that there is a very poor structure in the farm sector, and that now an active farmer, an active farmer, comes to 1.2 pensioners or pensioners. This is a situation as it cannot be found in any other occupational social security scheme. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Miner!]] Of course, in order to be able to pay these pensions, the necessary federal subsidies are absolutely necessary. Mrs Silhavy also claimed that this preference for farmers, as she said, would be continued in the course of pension harmonisation, and referred to the uniform contribution rate of 22.8 percent. I think, however, that they also know that farmers' large own benefits are included in this pension scheme and that, of course, these also had to be taken into account in the context of the contribution assessment. This is about the fictitious expropriation, which also contributes to the transfer from the transferees to the transferors and also provides a pension benefit. [[Abg. How high is that, Mrs. Colleague?]] [[Abg. Gradwell: How high is that?]] These are 26 percent of the respective compensatory allowance rate, which is deducted from the farmer's pensions. [[Abg. Grade: And how much percent, measured by the contributions, are these?]] This is, of course, a huge amount, and this is expected to be 3.6% of the pension contribution. All farms must also pay the levy on agriculture and forestry. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Numbers the taxes?]] This is also used for pension insurance, and it is also a solidarity contribution made by farmers' pensioners to be included. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That's a lot of new!]] [[Abg. Gradwell: And the others...?]] Member of the European Parliament Binder also meant that the burden on the families had increased. On the contrary, I would like to point out that this Federal Government has had the effect of providing special support to families in a wide range of areas, in particular child care. I would also like to say here that it is not possible to impose the right of fathers by law, but that family policy must be a cross-cutting issue between fathers, mothers and children and cannot be one-sidedly related to one person. However, I welcome all the measures that contribute to supporting the social acceptance of paternal leave so that in the future more fathers go to Karenz, although I would like to point out here that there is already an increase in the number of men with child care benefits.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7540	The next item is Mrs Schönpass. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7558	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister! High house! I would like to address two points on the “Family and Generations” chapter. The first point concerns my question on “senior promotion”, which unfortunately was only answered very inconcrutably. My question was what measures are to be taken on the basis of the increased funding for the so-called general pension scheme. Unfortunately, the answer was nothing but a general explanation; it seems that, despite increased budget resources, there are no new projects or measures. Which organizations receive money is not mentioned at all, and why there is an increase at all is also unanswered. Now, allge-my seniority promotion may not be a very exciting issue, but as boring as this question answer will hopefully not be your seniority policy, Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the second point, I deal with the topic of child care. In 2005 there will be funding of €700 000 for pilot projects to adapt child care to the parents' flexible working hours. However, these subsidies should only go to private institutions. By the way, voluntary granny and granny services can be a maximum of complementary care and do not replace institutional childcare. I know what I'm talking about, I'm four times grandma myself. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The largest carriers of childcare facilities are the communities, and they will remain. However, they are excluded from this measure and from this meaningful support. [[Abg. Steibl: But the communities are also happy if they have enough inhabitants! Otherwise they can't...!]] I see no reason why communities should not be supported to offer childcare in such a way that it is better suited to the needs of the parents. There will be no way past the childcare places if we take the compatibility of family and profession seriously. In rural areas in particular, investment needs to be made. The local authorities have already overshadowed their share of savings measures in view of the government's hunger policy. In rural areas in particular, it is particularly difficult for families to reconcile children and work. The communities can contribute to this; give them the money for it! Why, Minister, do not only receive private support for pilot projects and not the communities too? Is this a step toward privatising child care that few can afford, under the motto “Women Back to Herd!”?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7607	The next item is Mrs Lentsch's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7625	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have heard many accusations here in this House, but one thing is undisputed: The ÖVP is and remains the family party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This federal government acts in a family-friendly manner. That is what our worst critics have allowed us to do, so I do not need to list all our successes that we have achieved for the families. It is simply too many achievements that I would have to talk about here, and that would probably be the result of my speaking time: from the allowance for children to the increase in the compensation allowance for married couples – what the Minister mentioned earlier – from the parental age to the death of married couples. The 2 per cent to whom we increased the care allowance was not enough, as Mrs Mandak said in the Committee on Budgets, but the budget deficit of 1.9 per cent for 2005 is too high. Mrs. Mandak, I have also heard that you are calling for €1,000 for the caregivers in the dying car. I am entirely of your opinion: 1 000 € are too little, these people would have to get at least 3 000 €! [[Abg. Mandak: I am already satisfied if...!]] I would like a salary of €3,000 for all housewives, and I wish for all Austrians a basic pension of €3,000! But you certainly know the saying: Where nothing is, the emperor has lost the right; it should come from the monarchy. [[Calls to the Greens.]] But you also know that the Federal Chancellors and the Finance Ministers of SPÖ have simply lived over our conditions, and therefore the money for that is not there. [[Abg. Mandak: But you also know what a single hospital place costs!]] I must also point out the constant talk of the “social cold of this federal government”. There seems to be a short conclusion to the opposition, because we are not acting unsocially, but we merely clear up the sins of the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The problems were suppressed everywhere, and the eyes were closed everywhere. However, this Federal Government says: Keep your eyes open! This helps à la longue to all Austrians, especially the families that carry our social state. [[Abg. Oillinger: With your federal government you really need a helmet, otherwise you get a few on the lid!]] – I did not advertise, but I spoke, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7706	Mr Pirklhuber is next spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7725	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Lentsch, has just made a kind of self-esteem that I do not believe makes social competence appear to me, but as always, her examples were anything but practical. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to address a number of aspects that have been put forward in the last speeches on the issue of 'parent's leave month'. I am really convinced, Mrs Hellerer: If you address this issue as not a practical one, I would like to point out to you that – you have described the situation in agriculture – not all in this society are as privileged as the farmers who can always have contact with their children during their everyday working life – and if it is only at lunchtime. That's what you should consider! [[Abg. Steibl: But you already know that we have introduced parental leave and that they can be at home for six months through business agreements!]] Therefore, a father's carnage, a father's carnage, is an important opportunity to create the opportunity to participate, especially in the first months, which are particularly important for social ties and also for the responsibility that the fathers can assume. [[Abg. Steibl:... they can decide for themselves!]] It is a question of how this can be implemented, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In fact, I wanted to comment on consumer protection issues. I am pleased that Mrs Haubner is here now; at first I thought I had to address these questions to Mr Bundesminister Head. Mrs. State Secretary! Your colleague, Federal Minister, here in his opinion, has meant that there is still much to be done to improve and ensure transparency for consumers. I am entirely of your opinion, Mr Federal Minister, but we should also bear in mind that this must also be ensured through donations. Our view is that consumer protection in this budget has a flowering business. I also miss out on relevant priorities and signals in the activities, Mrs State Secretary, where no signs are visible. Let me give you a few examples. What have you done so far so that the results of controls, such as food controls, are really transparent on the Internet for consumers, for interested parties? What have you done in order, for example, to ensure that the results of pesticides investigations are communicated directly and immediately to the interested business and transport groups? – I am thinking, for example, of feed residues, as there were some cases. It is very crucial, Mrs State Secretary: What have you done to ensure that the Agency for Health and Nutritional Safety is really sufficiently taught? – Ladies and gentlemen, €20 million is due to the information we have – my colleague Moser has already pointed out – which is necessary every year to ensure that food safety is truly guaranteed! This is a key issue of consumer protection, Mr President, that is absolutely crucial. This is where the federal government can turn, and the state cannot really get out of its responsibilities. I think you've remained guilty of the relevant signals so far. Finally, to the whole area of labelling/labelling/fatting: I think there is still no common strategy in the field of special labels in the food sector. There is still no uniform Austrian organic seal as we have been demanding for years. There is also no common strategy in the food quality sector as far as the freedom of genetic engineering is concerned, for example, I am thinking only of the debates on non-genotechnic feed. Mrs. State Secretary! In the important question of liability, we are completely unhappy with the previous genetic engineering law. I would like to know when you will be ready to perform a repair – still in good time before the 2005 season. Mr Maier suggested finally setting up a Committee on Consumer Affairs in Parliament. We will certainly support this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7786	The next item is Mrs Grander. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7805	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! The current law regarding the assessment of those in need of care under the Bundespflege Act is contradictory and must be amended from the professional point of view of the elevated service for health and health care. At present, it is possible to assess the care effort and thus to classify into one of the seven stages of care only by doctors. However, the professional image of the elevated health and health care service, as well as our wife Mag, contradicts that. Dr. iuris Gertrude Allmer, a graduate of health care and nurses, in the legal opinion dated 30. ==References== According to § 14 para. 1 of the Health and Hospital Care Act the self-responsible diagnostics, planning, organisation, implementation and Control of all caregivers – in the care it is called “care process” – in the intramural and extramural area. The Bundespflegegeldgesetz includes care process-oriented, care-indicated measures, which typically belong to the self-responsible, partly in the co-responsible areas of activity in the sense of the professional image of the elevated service for health and health care. According to § 3 para. 1 Health and Hospital Care Act is reserved for the exercise of health and health care services to the health and nursing professions governed by the Health and Hospital Care Act. The demand for a change in the Federal Care Money Act has already been met by numerous organisations, such as the Austrian Health and Medical Association, the Austrian Care Conference and the Association of Care Directors of Austria. The caregivers have also offered to carry out a specific care counseling at the same time as the review is carried out, in order to explain opportunities for the care payer and the family for the positive treatment of the often very difficult situation. We want to offer this important added value through the care advice in the context of the assessment for the care classification to the affected care-needed people as a caregiver. To this end, the amendment of the Federal Care Money Act is necessary. Care allowance classifications must be made by nurses in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7844	The next item is Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7862	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Austria has one of the best state pension systems in the world. With about 15 percent of the gross domestic product, Austria has the highest pension expenditure within the EU. This fact is all the more welcome when Austria comes into work much later – that is, when numbers are started later than in other Member States – and the employment rate of over 55-year-olds is one of the lowest in the EU. Our task is therefore to ensure the maintenance of the generation contract and to ensure fair burden distribution between generations. I am pleased that in the 2005 budget there are again increases in existing pensions for disbursement. The Federal Pension Grant increased from €5.8 billion in 2004 to €5.9 billion in 2005, i.e. €100 million. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In addition, a budget increase for compensatory allowances, ranging from € 761 million in 2004 to € 822 million for 2005. It is with this that an ever-growing group in our country, namely the seniors, is given the security for their lives which they have deserved. Many of these people – we know this and we have heard it today – have not only rebuilt our country in the last decade, but also made a decisive contribution to the fact that we have this great importance today not only within the EU, but throughout the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The government, under Chancellor Schüssel and Minister of Social Affairs Herbert Haupt, also appreciates the attitude of the generation of seniors, who are at the end of their term of office. chem territory, whether within the family or in civil society institutions, has an incredible amount. We have heard from my colleague Maria Grandersoben: 80 percent of the caregivers are cared for and cared for by their own families, i.e. at home. A sign of recognition for this is certainly the valorization, the increase of the care allowance. At this point, I would also like to express my thanks for the solidarity that takes place between generations. Without these ideal values, we have not yet come out, and so it will be in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7920	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Herbert Haupt. Mr. Federal Minister, you know you have one minute leftover. What is more, that is what your group is calling for. Mr Federal Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7944	Madam President. High house! I would like to answer a few questions that remain open. The increase in support for the elderly is a consequence of the latest census results. As we know, we have demographically more seniors, and this also takes account of the budget. Secondly, If the main system of association is to come, the seniors as the fourth social partners in the main association will also be entitled to vote with three representatives, so that an important group can be directly involved in the development of the health system within the meaning of its own interests. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the future body of the main association of Austrian social security schemes, it will no longer be possible for countries to block consultations because self-help groups are directly involved in the development of the Austrian health system in the sense of consumer protection. On the questions of food safety, Mr Colleague: Food safety is directly and primarily a matter for Mrs. Rauch-Kallat in the health sector and the veterinary sector. As a learned veterinarian, however, I still take this seriously for myself and am currently negotiating with the Federal Chamber of Labour in order to be able to set accents together for consumer protection, just as we already have good cooperation with the Chamber of Labour in Carinthia, because the Kärnten Chamber of Labour is known to represent not only the workers, but also the small entrepreneurs and the farmers, i.e. all the sections of the population which are finally subsumed under consumer protection. – I hope to have answered the most important questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e7984	As the next speaker, Mr Prince, I should like to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8003	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Family support is widely written in Austria, and the special feature of this Austrian family support is that it does not build on the ideology of the alms or the foundry system, but takes into account the wishes, concerns and needs of families, fathers, mothers and children. What excitement there was in this house at the opposition when the childcare allowance was introduced for all. Thank God there is justice for farmers, housewives, students and so on. [[Abg. Oillingers: Just look at your papers!]] And it was worth it, for the circle of people has doubled by involving those mothers and fathers who previously had no right to child care. In order to ensure that this benefit is also manageable for young families, € 964 million will be foreseen in the budget in the coming year. The start-up to life should begin as harmoniously as possible, and it is therefore also up to us representatives to provide families with the necessary financial resources. In addition to the childcare allowance, the family allowance is the most important form of public recognition of family benefits. Almost €3 billion will be used for this next year. However, the Family Allowance Fund covers many other measures. Especially for rural areas, for example, the free movement of pupils and apprentices or the school book action is important. It is important that funding is available for social hardship cases with €1.5 million. The psychological care of families is becoming increasingly important. For this purpose, more than 370 family counsellors are active in Austria, who are at the side of families with advice and deed. The financial resources for this have been doubled since 1999. The compatibility of family and work is an important focus of family promotion. We are aware of this and are working accordingly on it. The 2005 budget best implements consistent policies for families and children.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8039	Mrs Haubner, Secretary of State, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8058	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The basic social attitude shown by this government becomes particularly visible to the families. For all of us families are the continuing and essential focus, an area of living solidarity between young and old. The benefits in the families – and I say this from an economic point of view – will decide on the success of the Austrian site as well as the creation of attractive framework conditions for the economy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We do not see the families exclusively as recipients of alms or transfer payments, but we say that the families are important recipients of investments for sustainable social development. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We will continue in 2005 the successful path we have taken, namely that of understanding family policy as an investment policy. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Reinster Neoliberalism!]] [[Abg. Sburny: There seem to be no more other terms!]] We will continue to invest in creating a family-friendly environment, and we will continue to provide the necessary financial resources for the families. In this area, we will also use the necessary resources for senior and youth policies. €5.6 billion, about 9 percent of the total budget. Therefore, for us, the families also belong to the uplifters under this government for me. Ladies and gentlemen! We talk a lot, we try to do a lot to increase the birth rate. In recent months, it has been shown that our actions are also taking place in some areas. In my opinion, in the last three or four months, we have also exceeded the sole of the valley and reached a birth rate of about 2.6 percent. When you talk to young people and ask them what prevents them from creating a family, having children, or having several children, you get different answers. On the one hand, it is the economic security that must be guaranteed, on the other hand, it is the working conditions to be able to reconcile work and family. Then again and again the demand for tax relief and, above all, social security for the periods invested in the family is heard. And that is why these four areas are the essential ones for us in the future: Economic security through financial means in the form of child care benefits that no one excludes, whether a mother is employed or not. Economic security through family allowances, especially for those families that have children who have special needs that are disabled. Economic security but also for older children in the form of home travel aid, in the form of grants for apprentice-free travel and the like. The field of working conditions improved in terms of the compatibility of work and family is a very essential factor, and we are on a good path, because we have set the legal framework especially with the parent age. However, we have already achieved great success in the more family-friendly design of the working world through increased cooperation with the economy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We will also provide additional resources in this year or in the new budget for these compatibility measures of €400 000, and we will also provide additional resources for childcare, for supplementary childcare facilities for family care, which is particularly important for the compatibility of work and family life. For this purpose, €700 000 is planned for very innovative childcare projects. At this point I would also like to thank the countries and communities which, in a very positive process in recent months, together with us, have laid the basis for the continued competence of the countries, but also the Federation here, in the form of financial resources, to create additional facilities for children to care for. It is very important that time is also taken into account for children, time for families. A third area – which has been more discussed in recent discussions – is social security. Especially in the area of pension harmonisation, we have set the course for a much improved and strengthened self-employed pension scheme for women. We have not only increased the basis for child rearing, we have basically increased the expected years per child, and we will also improve in the field of multiple children. I believe that improvements are particularly important in this area and that a society that has social conscience cannot afford to have 33 percent of women over 60 years of age without an independent pension. Ladies and gentlemen! The tax relief, which should not be forgotten in this area, will also provide the families with €250 million more in this year and means that they will be able to More money in the family's wallets. Clearly we will continue to work in this sense in family policy, for families do important and irreplaceable benefits not only for themselves but for the entire life phase of a person from birth to the education of children to the care of the elderly. In this sense, we continue to be reliable partners for the families they can rely on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8132	The next speaker was Mrs Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8150	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! In life, the birth of a child is one of the most beautiful and exciting moments. Parental love and care should accompany children into life. However, children also face great financial challenges for families, and not rarely do families with several children live hard at the poverty line. This budget shows the very clear political will of the ÖVP/FPÖ government to strengthen families in our country by the various measures already mentioned today. I just want to mention one: The new children's deposits in the framework of the tax reform, which add to the single-earner discount rate, are very clear accents for the families in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Financial support for families is an investment in the future. However, family policy also means leaving young people working systems behind, a functioning, financial pension system. The pension reform and the harmonisation of pensions contribute to this. There are also clear family policy accents in harmonisation: the additional billing of child rearing periods, three years deduction in the calculation process, the upgrading of the basis of assessment, but above all also that seven years of contribution are sufficient for a pension claim. This point in fact means a hundred percent profit for many women. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! They are, in fact, constantly criticizing every and all that is decided here. In fact, you're just sorry that you've never been able to set such accents for families for women all over your government. We did it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Mandak: We were never in government!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy means for us in the ÖVP government to take responsibility for our youth, for our children. This budget shows that we are not pressing ahead with responsibility. We invest in our families, we invest in youth, because that means: Give it a future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8219	Mr Wöginger has spoken on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8237	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am disappointed that the opposition in the social and family sphere is painting a picture that does not correspond to reality. I am very sorry because we should encourage our young people, our young families, in particular. And because of the family-political achievements of this federal government, we can do so, ladies and gentlemen, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria, together with Luxembourg, is the most family-friendly country in Europe, and as a becoming father, I call you some of these great achievements: Childcare allowance for all, including for 32,000 housewives and students. In total, we currently have 170,000 people, 4,000 of whom are male. This figure is glad to see the rise. Further: Increased family allowance, plus 50 percent for multiple births in childcare allowance. [[Abg. Brosz: And when you visit your doctor you have to pay for your children!]] In 2005, FLAF expenditure rose by € 230 million to € 5.2 billion. This money benefits our families, and we can be proud of it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another important support is the Family Package in the context of the tax reform: Increase in the amount of earnability at the single earner's discount from €4 400 to €6 000. Children's supplements to the single-earner discount amount of 130, 175 and 220 € depending on the number of children. ==References== In January 2005, ladies and gentlemen, the taxpayer will be relieved on average by €500 or €7 000. That's 40 € per month or 560 S, and that's a noticeable discharge, my dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have a very good family policy and thank God also a upward trend in birth rates by 2.6 percent in the first three quarters of 2004. Let us look forward to this, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy! Finally get out of your sad valley and make people brave! That is also one of your duties as Members of this House. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP and congratulation with the liberals.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make one last comment on social security as an ÖVP member: Mr Klubobmen Cap and Gusenbauer, who once again shine by absence, speak to our Members over and over again and worry that our job here in the House is in danger. Mr Cap and Mr Gusenbauer! – Please direct this to the two gentlemen! – Both of you are the guarantee that nothing will happen to us. As long as you sit here in the front, our seats are secured up there. This comparison makes us sure!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8303	Mrs Rossmann has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8321	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Firstly, as the last speaker on the Social Budget chapter, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the sign language interpreters. I think it was very interesting and fascinating for everyone how they translated professional expressions – very, very difficult, professional expressions – but also personal names. It was important for all of us, and it is an important signal from the High House as well as an appreciation of the sign language. But I also say that I very much regret that the sign language interpretation service during live broadcasts is not possible, where the spectators really have something of it. There, too, the ORF is called for organizationally to change the section from the speaker's desk, so that the sign language interpretation can be seen, or, as it is quite usual internationally, to show it. – That would be just an incentive. [[Congratulations on the liberals and the Greens.]] Finally, I would like to say: Many topics have been edited today. I would nevertheless like to return to the care allowance, to the valorization of the care allowance. Social democracy has criticized the increase by only 2%, and it has been said that this is only a few euros – 30 € to 40 € – and that is nothing. But now I would like to remind you: The care allowance was introduced in 1993 and last valorised in 1995. That's nine years now. We are the first government to valorise the care money. But I also say what you have done, because I think you have forgotten that, so it is very important for me to mention this again. In 1996, under a SPÖ Federal Chancellor, under a SPÖ Finance Minister, under a SPÖ Social Minister, you reduced the care allowance by more than 50 € per month, and you have halved the care allowance, which is really intended for the most in need of care and for the poorest. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Unimaginable!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is the social SPÖ!]] It was not possible for you to take some form of consideration for the weakest. They didn't want it at all. At the time, I can remember the debates, this also showed how you deal with socially weak people! It was your party chairman, Gusenbauer, who was still on 26 June. In March 2002, the “Presse” literally said that the care money was “economically completely wrong. ” And that's only two years ago; I'm just reminding you. I would also remind you that this was the Federal Government under Minister of Social Affairs Herbert Haupt und State Secretary Uschi Haubner, who introduced the care allowance from birth, which included the care allowance level 3 and 4 in the family hospice. That is, when someone goes to family hospice, he has the care level 3 or 4 and the contribution-free co-insurance of the caregivers. I think this is important, and it is important for us to recognise the care as a whole that care is also possible at home. We have taken many steps here, whether at national level – above all in the Federal State of Carinthia – whether it is also that State Secretary Uschi Haubner has continued to promote care at home and has taken insurance periods as real working hours in the care insurance system. In addition, the pension-based times are 1 350 €. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In conclusion: But it is also important to me that a lot has been done especially in the consumer protection sector. Here too, State Secretary Uschi Haubner has continued the way of Mr Böhmdorfer, Federal Minister and has continued to provide cost-effective consumer protection advice for senior citizens. ==References====External links==* Official website On July 1, 2004, the home contracts were no longer payable for the first time. I wonder why in all these years no one has thought of making home contracts free of charge at all. In some cases, the home residents had to pay more than €2,000 for the return of their home contracts. I can only say – summa summarum: Since the participation of the liberals in government, a different self-understanding has also taken place in social policy. And the guarantee to continue this path successfully remains the head of state Secretary Uschi Haubner and Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8388	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the opinion group VII of the 2005 Federal Proposal. This includes chapters 15, 16 and 19 of the Federal Proposal in 650 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken immediately on the motions for resolutions tabled during the negotiation of the Consultative Group VII of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dobnigg, colleagues and colleagues on the protection of the value of pensions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Aha, no guarantee of value for pensions!]] We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Huainigg, Dr Partik-Pablé, colleagues on the recognition of the Austrian sign language. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a positive signal. [[The SPÖ delegates are only reluctant to rise from their seats.]] [[Call out the outrage at the ÖVP and the liberals.]] – This is unanimously adopted. (E 76.) [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Advisory Group XII Chapter 40: Military Affairs
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8459	We shall proceed to the negotiations on the Advisory Group XII. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Gaál. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8483	Mr President. Federal Minister Platter! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In 2000, if I may remind you, this government coalition from ÖVP and FPÖ has made great promises, including in the area of national defence, Mr. Ex. Dr. Fassleven, and has announced that there would be a military budget of at least 1.5 percent of the gross domestic product in the future. Not that I wanted it, but you promised it in the government at the time, that was your promise. We have considered checking, on the basis of the proposal, whether these promises have also been met. What remains of this full-bodied announcement? In the past, the evil social democrats have always been guilty of the fact that the German army has always been subject to a very great subordination. Now there is the fifth budget without social democrats, and we must say, Minister of State: There has never been such a small budget, there has never been so little money for the Austrian federal army as now, in 2005! Mr Platter, I do not want to reduce your personal efforts to increase the budget for the state defense, for your place of business. That's commendable and welcome, your commitment is fine, and that's okay. More 70 million € in absolute numbers is also an amount and is not small to estimate, but nevertheless it is no more than the famous drop on the hot stone in terms of what you have planned and announced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why, Minister of State, we should leave the church in the village. With that, this federal government reform is guaranteed, you have repeatedly claimed that you have remained guilty of the evidence. Maybe you can explain this to us in detail today. I say that this reform is never guaranteed, Mr Federal Minister, because, according to your experts, you need an additional €500 million per year. And where to take if not steal?, you're almost trying to say. But seriously asked: How do you really take the money from? Who are you taking away money from? Where do reworks take place here? In principle, it is noted that the present draft is trying to carry out retransmissions, as at a large shift station. Figures are being pushed back and forth like trains, they are really teased and fooled here, hidden and hidden, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Abg. Murauer: Don’t say “successful”! “Fucky” not!]] An example: What I noticed is the exorbitant increase for rent and for other moving things. Here it explodes up to 872 percent, Minister of State! That's where we asked ourselves: What's behind that? This is the intermediate solution, the procurement of Ural aircraft F5 from Switzerland. You see, here are the first negative effects of this misguided Eurofighter procurement. [[Abg. Scheibner: They're too expensive for you again!]] Here we already see, my dear friend, this purchase decision will put the German army in very serious financial difficulties, Mr Federal Minister. I do not want to read the "NEWS" article to you now, Minister of State. This article is well researched. It is written by Platter's "flying budget problems" and fully confirms our criticism, our warnings, our fears, our fears. We are indeed afraid of the continuation of the Austrian federal army, Mr. Federal Minister, because 233 million € follow-up costs – focus here is communication, airfield infrastructure, flight system – are to be paid out of the current budget, and for that you need money. This is particularly happening in 2007, especially if you already have to pay the first rate for the Sinteure Eurofighter acquisition. So, in 2007, you're getting into a huge financial sluggish, but maybe you're thinking: We will no longer bear responsibility, and we will no longer have to pay for it. But anyone has to pay, Mr. Federal Minister, and that means making debts into the future without taking on responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] No financing concept until today, far and wide nothing to be seen from the economic platform announced by the Federal Chancellor. All that has been promised will not be kept. That is why this federal reform will not be carried out as we have recommended in the Commission, but it will be a purely savings programme. And that is why this Eurofighter decision has been the biggest misconception of a Federal Government since the Second Republic was established and will in fact prove to be a disaster for the Austrian Federal Army, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is nothing left for other important, necessary, meaningful procurement. I remember the bullet guard vests. They've been promised for years. On the last visit to Sarajevo, we had to note that our soldiers who are on their way to the service of peace abroad, who have a very dangerous mission ahead, have not been equipped with these so necessary ballistic vests, Federal Minister. There's no money left, there's no money for anything. And then, Mr. Federal Minister, talk about participating in “Battle Groups”, in these small mobile units, and say that this is militaryly feasible. Federal Minister! On the one hand, I would like you to not share these profound political decisions with us through the newspaper, but rather that you are here looking for the conversation with us. This issue is a subject which has been debated at parliamentary level, because the Austrian Parliament still decides on the posting of soldiers abroad. That is why this question is discussed here in Parliament in the main committee. [[Abg. Neudeck: That was decided today!]] We are waiting for your concepts, we are waiting for the documents to finally make the definition here, Mr Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, despite this small increase, we cannot give our support to this budget because of the many expenditures that are expected. [[Abg. Neudeck: Not you can't, but you can't!]] This policy, Mr. Federal Minister, leads to the political deadlock. We are happy to help you get out of this dead end, you just need to ask us for help.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8599	The next speaker was Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8617	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, it would be nice for us to have more money at our disposal at every venue we discussed last week and this week, not to have a limit up, not to think about the extent to which we could provide finance, and draw from the full credit possibilities – as in the past. The Federal Government has undertaken not to do so, and has imposed itself to deal with the existing resources accordingly and it is intended and intended for its own purposes. In this case, it should be noted that, in the And this succeeds to an oversized extent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If one speaks of the promises made in connection with the state defense and the federal army, then I can remind you that it was very important to bring the Draken post-purchase – that is to be mentioned again and again – into order, and this was also set out in the original government agreement of Social Democracy and ÖVP. The federal government reform was also announced and implemented accordingly – we could and were all allowed to join – and procurements have also been announced. I will return to what procurement is important and necessary. Federal Minister Platter has achieved great success in that the aircraft financing is carried out outside the budget. That is precisely why we do not have a budget burden, even if it is always presented differently. Federal Minister Platter has also managed to have an additional €70 million annually, i.e. 2004, 2005, 2006, in old Schilling, at least one billion each time, and to also now make available the proceeds from the sale of the properties. So the three or four points counted together actually increase the budget, which is worth €1.81 billion in the estimates. Ladies and gentlemen! The German army is currently dealing with one of the largest reforms ever made. It is a huge, great matter, and I do not wish to miss out on today's budget speech to express my gratitude to the politics, to those politicians who have been involved and involved, but also to all the officials and military who have made themselves available accordingly. This reform will align our federal army according to the new requirements, and it will be a purpose-oriented matter. The goal of making the German army slimmer, even more professional than it is anyway, will be achieved, and the flexibility and mobility that will have much more importance in the future will be taken into account accordingly. There will be over 50,000 men available, and we will be able to carry out the international tasks related to the Headline Goals accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to remind you now that the Headline Goals were decided accordingly some years ago, i.e. before this ÖVP/FPÖ government, and that, of course, the rapid intervention group you mentioned, colleague Gaál, is included here. That, of course, we have to decide them nationally and, of course, have to deal with the main committee, this is also set out. This was explained in the reform discussion, which I believe corresponds to our parliamentaryism, and that is also good. We will be able to fulfil our role in the common European security and defence policy, to which we have agreed. We have great tradition in this regard. We currently have 600 in Kosovo, 300 in Bosnia and 370 in Golan, who carry out the task of securing peace, freedom, human rights, and in addition make the link between our country and the target countries. One of the objectives of this Commission for Reform is to substantially improve the relationship between the Administration and the Force. Here is the objective and explanation of our Nettes Platter that he will come from the current ratio two to one to a ratio one to one between the administration and the force. The Federal Army is on the go, and I thank you very much, very much, for this goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Despite the international tasks, however, the tasks in Austria – home protection, security in our country on the ground and in the air – are not to be neglected. That is why it is necessary to point out that, especially for Austria, 10,000 men are available for protection, for security, for assistance on the border, for disaster aid – and that is only possible with the general obligation to do so. This will be maintained in our country, and this will also enable civil service. Six months, which can only be done more in 2006, is the message to the basic defenses, a message to the youth, but also a corresponding mission to our federal army. The “founder of the defense ” should, if he is discouraged, be a supporter of a positive mental attitude to the defense of the state. He is to be motivated by training and by the trainers; the trainers will be based accordingly on how this is already the case. The militia will have to be given a corresponding priority; the connection of citizens in the individual countries with the military by military commanders will also be maintained. This is a modern, "round" picture of our federal army, which will guarantee our and European security. Investment priorities – and I would like to mention them briefly – will be the training, training on simulators, the procurement of combat suits; 8 000 combat suits are delivered annually – a concern that we all have. Other priorities: Communication, ABC equipment and armored team transports, especially in connection with foreign operations. Ladies and gentlemen! With thanks to all those who show great understanding and high motivation in the federal army, I mean that this budget of security, the budget of the state defense can be given approval without delay.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8708	Mr Pilz is speaking as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8727	Ladies and gentlemen! I now abandon all self- praise for the work of the Federal Army Reform Commission and would like to note only the following: When we discussed and negotiated at the end of the discussions on the financing of the reform, the Federal Chancellor's Office rightly pointed out that there was no longer any money for the defence of the state. – But I have no problem at all, because we have some major problems with the lack of money for education, social affairs and much more. At that time, I asked a question in the German Reform Commission, which neither the Minister nor the experts could answer, because it is not at all positively answerable, namely: If there is no more money and there is a political consensus in the Federal Government on the fact that there is no more money, how should the German army reform and the Eurofighter be financed at the same time? – That is simply and simply impossible! Ladies and gentlemen, you know that on account of the failed Mech package alone, the share of the defence budget in GDP will rise to 0.97% of GDP by 2007 – but without any increases. If you start Eurofighter financing in 2007, then you will find a share of about 1.2 percent of GDP. And since it doesn't matter if you book some of it in the Ministry of Finance's budget, or whatever it would be correct, in the defence department's budget. Do you really want to do so, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, in this legislative period, as if it were also being saved from the military, and to leave to a next government commitments that will force them to do so in the course of contract fidelity, the defence budget – and that without any gain for the security of the Republic of Austria and its inhabitants! – to increase to 1.2 percent of the gross domestic product and thus by a third?- Oh, my God! But don't tell us: for the current budget, but that concerns the budgets of the next federal government! Therefore: Which pots should this money actually come from when the Maastricht criteria are fulfilled? – Does it have to restore invalidity pensioners, universities and all pensioners? [[Abg. Murauer: But, Mister Pilz!]] Or who's next time? These are the questions that are answered before concluding contracts, which are also economically unaccountable, with a foreign partner. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second – Toni Gaál has already pointed out –: They want to participate in “Battle Groups”. Now I address a question to you, Minister of State Platter: Have you managed – something that was impossible within the framework of the Federal Government Reform Commission – to indicate binding European political objectives for the security policy of the Republic of Austria? What is our political objective in security policy at all? On the part of the Commission, we have proposed the Community of Safety, with three conditions. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: You suggested this!]] Firstly, a strong common foreign policy as its foundation, second: strong parliamentary control in Brussels, thirdly: clear constitutional arrangements, in particular clear mandates of the United Nations as the basis for international action. [[Abg. Murauer: Oillinger does not praise!]] We have said that Austria will not only remain neutral on the way, but must re-found its neutrality policy because it has been lost by the German government in office. We have pleaded for neutrality policy – instead of the neutrality populism of a President Khol and many others, who always discover neutrality shortly before elections, but always come to Mozart balls and Lipizzans shortly after elections. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: What choice is there now?]] We ask you, Minister of State Platter: Is our common goal the community? Does a neutral Austria want to achieve this union politically – or do you represent the line of the liberals, according to which there should continue to be 25 Ministers of Defense, 25 armies, 25 national and often, as in the past, for example, in south-eastern Europe, against each other, European security policy and sometimes military policy? That is the great European question. We have given a clear answer. But you, Federal Minister Platter, have not decided to this day; we therefore expect you to answer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The Greens have said to neutrality, it also goes without...!]] Once again to the “Battle Groups”, a very important decision that we have discussed several times: Do you really want to decide the question “Battle Groups” alone in the government and without reference to the National Council? [[New calls from MEPs Murauer and Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] Do you want to go through such an important question without the decisions of the main committee, the national defence committee and, at the end of the day, without the plenary? Do you want to be on the 22nd floor? Do you want to go to Brussels in November, without officially addressing the Austrian National Council? This is a very crucial political question – and it cannot be solved by the fact that something has to do with the Petersberg tasks. This is not wrong, but it is the question in which political framework and in what relationship to structured cooperation, in which relationship to a threatening military core Europe Austria is involved in the formation of heavily armed forces – or not. [[Abg. Murauer: Mr Pilz, that is not to say in the form...! You know that very well!]] I'm asking you if They are willing to postpone a decision by the Federal Government until the National Council can deal with its committees and the plenary in a proper and serious manner and make recommendations. I strongly recommend that you do not pass the National Council on this important issue of security policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last point. As we are talking about the budget today and the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Finance, I am now referring to a strange report that has just come from the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance sent out – I quote –: ‘The accused is no longer a cabinet member.’ I then asked and I can tell you: It is about the fact that, since today, a cabinet member, a former cabinet member, a Klagenfurt friend of Karl Heinz Grasser, is suspicious of having engaged in the brokers' business illegally, filed illegal commissions and suggested that others have – and have confirmed all this with his signature. It's been public since today. Mr Ramprecht, who is here, is no longer a member of the cabinet of the Minister of Finance, but he was the Supervisory Board of the BUWOG, Chairman of the BUWOG Procurement Commission, as an illegal broker responsible for the award of federal apartments – and Ramprecht is now the head of the Federal Procurement Agency, one of the most important procurement institutions of the Republic of Austria! [[Call the Greens: Unbelievable!]] [[Abg. Murauer: What does this have to do with this budget!]] Mr Grasser, the Minister of Finance, does not understand anything but if one of his friends and former cabinet employees is caught by a sham company that does not exist in the company's book, to say: He's not in the cabinet anyway! Federal Minister Grasser! Mr Ramprecht, who is already running a commercial authority procedure, is the head of the Federal Procurement Agency and thus directly responsible to you! And there is only one possibility: to immediately release this Lord from all functions, against the one, and against his wife, who has done and carried out all this with him, in order to protect the procurement of the Republic and also the people who depend on federal dwellings, from the machinations of Mr. Ramprecht! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8946	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e8964	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pilz, I think you have overlooked the fact that the Minister of Finance is not sitting on the government bank, but the Minister of Defence. [[Abg. Oillinger: Mr Finanzminister should sit there! That's his budget!]] With regard to the European security policy line of the Greens, you, Dr. Pilz, should make yourself clear in your party about how you are doing and take a clear and predictable position to do so, for we have not yet been able to recognize this from the government parties with you from the Greens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Gaal: Who then was Minister of Defense? Wasn't that a freeman?]] Mr Gaál, this federal government had to work out many failures, especially from the eighties – and these failures include the post-convention of interception hunters as well as the safeguarding of airspace surveillance. That this is a very difficult issue, no one has disputed with us, but I can say: This federal government makes the most of this issue, has made decisions – and I think these decisions were correct. [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is an increase of €70 million in this budget for 2005 and 2006. I believe that it will ensure that the start of the reform of the Austrian federal army can begin. I believe that the two pillars on which the German army will rest and in which the German army must act, namely, home protection and, on the other hand, the European obligations, can be used accordingly. And I think it is also right to use these additional funds for different priorities. Examples of these priorities: equipment; this is about the new combat suit. This means that 8 000 men can be equipped each year. Further focus is on the professionalization of the army as well as the improvement in training by modern simulators and the like. It is also a matter of improving communication. Overall, around €4.9 million of investment in this context is planned for the Telecommunications Forces at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few brief comments on the reform of the German army. There was indeed the Federal Hero-Reform Commission, which has hit in important areas, as I mean, “plums” to which the Federal Government should also adhere. In the reform of the federal army, we should ensure that we receive the regionalisation and that, if necessary, we can build regional leadership structures of the federal army. It is clear that regional governance structures are at the heart of home protection in particular, also in view of the new, modern threats posed by terrorism. Consider, for example, ladies and gentlemen, the events of the last days in Holland, but also think back to the events in Spain and France, where, after announcements of attacks, numerous troops and a lot of personnel have had to be available to secure objects to search for railway tracks to see if explosives are not deposited there, and so on! That is why I believe it is important that, as this is necessary, regional leadership structures remain in the federal army. The same applies to the militia, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In principle, the militia must be modernised; for this we confess to the liberals. However, it must also be available in a structured form, so that, if this staff effort exists in the context of security policy, it can actually be made available to this staff. Therefore, a structured militia must be possible after a reform. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also important that, after the federal army reform, the numerous basic competences within the army remain. With all due regard to the need to modernise and streamline, including in the area of heavy weapons and so on: It is important that in the field of artillery, for example, but also in the field of tank weapons, the know-how remains within the Austrian federal army, so that, if there is a need for any increase, we can also make this competence available autonomously within Austria. I believe that the duration of the basic defence service is an essential point, and I have already mentioned it from the point of view of the speaker. There too, the Federal Hero-Reform Commission has adopted and adopted a clear recommendation. I should therefore like to quote from the report of the Federal Hero-Reform Commission: “The Bundesheer Reform Commission assumes that, from today’s point of view, the reduction of the military service may take place after the absence of assistance at the State border, at the earliest, however, in 2007, provided that” – which means that conditions are called – “the necessary measures are already in place with a view to the implementation of the military reform.” – Quotes. Ladies and gentlemen! This decision of the Bundesheer Reform Commission is a very wise and more prudent. I am sure, Mr Federal Minister, that, as you have announced, you will comply with the results of the Federal Hero-Reform Commission, and also in this very important area, because the reduction of the basic defence service is actually contrary to the basic objective of the federal reform. One of the main objectives of the federal reform is the transition from a large army of mobile services to a presence army which cannot be used after a large scale mobilization and mobilization, as has been the case so far, but which can be used ad hocly for new threats. That is why, as I believe, in the sense of the reform of the Austrian federal army, a reduction in military service – at least from today's point of view – is the wrong way! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same applies, ladies and gentlemen, to the reduction of civil service, which is a debate that results from the other. A reduction in civil service would also contradict social policy development, a development which we all complain for hours in numerous speeches, namely the development that our society is ageing and that there will therefore be increased care needs in Austria over the next few years. And we have to ask ourselves the question of who should and will take care of this care. But what, ladies and gentlemen, are we doing? – A reduction in civil service is being discussed! I believe that both - both the reduction of military service and the reduction of civil service - are from today's point of view a completely false debate! We should take advantage of the time that the Federal Force Reform Commission gives us with its result, namely the time until 2007, in order to reflect on these two important things once again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government, which we members of the Free Party, stands for solid, predictable action and for consistent reforms. And in that, Minister of State Platter, we will continue to support you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9050	The next speaker was Mrs Stadlbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9069	Mr President. Minister! High house! It was already exciting to listen to my colleague Bösch. [[Abg. Dolinschek: It is always exciting to listen to him!]] Although he says that consistent reforms are important, only: nothing can change! - I've had a lot of fun. But since there is only a small budget available anyway, there will not be much change. [[Abg. Murauer: You shouldn't be fooled!]] This morning, like many of you, I heard the headlines on the radio: on the one hand, that the budgetary negotiations continue, are being continued, and on the other hand, that there will be the biggest budget deficit since this government was in office. Apart from the fact that this government is known to set a different goal – keyword: Zero deficit! – and it has simply failed to do so without consequences, as normal people would do, the question of the sensibleness of expenditure, in this case expenditure in the defence of the state. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] First of all, I would like to point out that I do not wish to agree on expenditure for the defence of the country in itself. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. School: But?]] [[Call the ÖVP:But?]] – Look, now you're awake, and now the first calls are coming, so I wanted to take this straight ahead. – But how the funds are used within the area needs to be questioned very well. The Court of Auditors has identified major errors in the planning and implementation of arms procurement in its reports on a number of occasions. It criticises, in particular, the high presuppositions on current expenditure. These advances amount to € 258 million without Eurofighter, which is more than a quarter of the budget's expenditure. Where is the scope for the urgently needed, meaningful procurement for the protection and security of soldiers, soldiers and the Austrian population? [[Abg. Murauer: How, for example,?]] Let us take a look at what would be necessary, Mr President. Modernisation for the radio - no means provided; [[Abg. Murauer: Is scheduled!]] Improvement of AB 212 transport helicopters – no means provided, writes the Minister in a reply to a question; Garages and flight roofs for the protection of valuable equipment – no means provided; hardened sanitary vehicles – no funds provided; [[Abg. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, my God!]] Wheel tanks – do not provide for any means; Ballguard vests – Mr Gaál has already pointed this out. [[Abg. Murauer: Previewed!]] – During a visit to the Federal Force Complaint Commission, the soldiers themselves – the colleague has mentioned this – complained that there are still no bullet protection vests. And in this year's budget, too, there has been insufficient provision for this again, just a drop on the hot stone. Or: Much too little is planned for the implementation of the reform “Austrian Federal Hegemony 2010”. [[Abg. Murauer: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] And I would like to quote “News” very much, in which we can read that the funding of the German army reform is on tone feet. An expert says that the huge costs of airspace surveillance are his – you mean, Mr. Minister – every room for reform! [[Call the ÖVP: Who? What's his name?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Who is the expert you quote?]] [[Abg. He's not called Uwe Scheuch, I can guarantee that!]] This reality you must finally imagine and confess color! Your answer, however, is a censorship order! And I quote from this regulation: The reform process is inevitable and secured by a broad consensus. Therefore, it would not only be unwise, but even politically problematic if opinions in publications... were not in accordance with the opinion of the Federal Minister and the BMLV. - Quote. Minister! Allowing other opinions is not a question of democracy policy, as it stands in your regulation. The killing of other opinions, however, is not only worrying, but also unacceptable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, you should just listen to the people and talk to them above all! And you should also listen more to the soldiers and talk to them, because my impression is that you are not really looking for these conversations, that this is not a concern and not important to you! This also shows the example of ball protection vests. This is undemocratic, undemocratic and insecure for those concerned. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: Who wrote you this speech?]] Our common concern should be to protect the soldiers, especially the protection of colleagues who work abroad! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: And ladies!]] They are, after all, very dangerous. We should think of their security and make sufficient resources available in the budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In national defence policy and in security policy, SPÖ is very different from that government. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Sure, yes!]] Your only thing The goal is to buy sinteur luxury fighter jets, work on them! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] But political goals remain in the background. On the other hand, we represent a comprehensive safety concept: Austria should be actively committed to conflict prevention, crisis management and peacekeeping! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria should continue to develop the European Union peace project and build a common foreign and security policy. And – very important! –: We are committed to neutrality and we also want to maintain it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9331	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9366	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debates on the question of the military budget have in fact not changed for years. If you listen to the debates of colleagues from the SPÖ, it is always the same: [[Call the ÖVP: Hot air!]] There are some, for example, Mr Gaál, who really stand to defend the country and demand more budget. But most of the SPÖ's representatives are, in fact, becoming increasingly dissent; if we negotiate other budget chapters, they think, in fact, the army has too much budget, we could use it elsewhere! [[Abg. But you will not be able to provide the proof, Mr Spindelegger!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's unbelievable. And if you, my colleague, who has just discussed this here, believe that a comprehensive concept of security must be adopted, I fully agree with you. But comprehensive safety concept means: Safety not only in the country, but also in the air! [[Abg. Stadlbauer: With the most expensive aircraft?]] This is not to be separated, ladies and gentlemen. You should write this to yourself in the main book! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have a budget approach for next year, which is €70 million above the budget of this year. This is a truly extraordinary extension of the budget framework, which is more than 4 per cent in addition to the national defence. And it is, I believe, very well-invested money, because we need a number of budget resources for the next year in order to respond very concretely to those requirements that are coming up this next year. I would like to focus on what is of particular importance to the Austrian Federal Army in the foreign policy field: The participation of Austrian soldiers in international operations, particularly within the framework of the UN, also brings huge image gains for Austria. All the soldiers working at Golan, especially in South-East Europe, are ambassadors of Austria, in order that this nation, which is capable of making a contribution to critical scenes, can be seen. This commitment, Mr Federal Minister, in which you have set a special focus on South-East Europe, so that more soldiers will be used on their own doorstep, I believe, is exactly the right way to show that Austria can contribute to security and stability in the neighborhood. Secondly, I would like to address the issues relating to the implementation of KIOP next year. This too is a very important aspect for us in terms of security and European policy. The Federal Minister has very clearly supported that we are participating in KIOP, but I believe that the latest developments must also be seen as positive. And here I am, I think, an opinion with colleague Gaál: We must also take part in these preparatory work. Finally, we need to get away from the image of the driver in Europe's security policy, in addition to the fact that, like all other European Union countries, we are really committed to preparing for the use of KIOP. Ladies and gentlemen! By the way, there is a misunderstanding. Mr Gaál said that the main committee or the National Council had not been informed. I checked this again today: In September of this year, a document was made available to the National Council for the preparation of these “Battle Groups”. We have not discussed this so far, that is true, in the Subcommittee of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but you too could make a contribution and apply for it. I believe that it makes sense to do something like that, and also right, but the current negotiations in Brussels are not about the decision, so that we say it, but about preparing for it. Mr Federal Minister, as soon as a concept is on the table, we will of course also be in the National Council, the main committee, about it. On behalf of my group, I should like to say: We want this because it is necessary to be credible in Europe through its own commitment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My last brief comment, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the 2005 year of thought. To this end, and especially the German army from the history of this Second Republic will be able to make a contribution, namely to show how necessary and important the national defence is for our state body. And I am pleased, Minister of State, that the work is progressing so well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9442	As the next speaker, Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9460	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister, I do not know if you remember, I would remind you now: In the committee deliberations on the budget of the state defense, I had to go earlier because I had to pick up my son. [[Call the ÖVP:... Child woman!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: From the Federal Lord?]] That is why I had no opportunity at that time to discuss a particular question with you, which was not only in my interest but also in the interest of the other members of the committee. I now take the opportunity to make up for this, although it is not directly related to the budget, but as often as you do not have here to enter into a dialogue with you. It is this painful matter at the state visit of the Israeli President Katzav in Austria, this story when he flew with the helicopter to Mauthausen and was “caught” in front of a small plane. [[Call the ÖVP:Black Hawk!]] This story, which I do not want to repeat in all the details now, because it is probably just as unpleasant or embarrassing to you as I am, has been read the next day in the “Kronen Zeitung” in all the details. [[Abg. Neudeck: It can only be embarrassing for the pilot of the small plane!]] I asked you at the time who is responsible for the fact that such things are still being co-imported through Boulevard leaves during the presence of the President of the State. What's going on in your department? Do you have any Your people don't get under control? Who has the pouvoir to launch such things in what form and how? And since I have heard that you, because I was no longer there at the time, have not responded to it, I ask you to make it clear today. [[Abg. Murauer: This is freedom of speech!]] – It is freedom of speech, Mr Murauer! Yeah, but it's the Minister's responsibility to have his people under control. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Still!]] So let's leave that! Because of the freedom of speech, I am now continuing my speech with the two-billion waste of the next few years. Federal Minister! On the day before the decision-making of the so-called pension harmonisation – and certainly there are also numerous members of your resort as officials and officials affected by what the Federal Government is planning; and this is the life perspective of individual people in Austria, and not only of individual people, but also of whole families attached to these individuals; thus, the people are taken brutal life opportunities by radically shortening all officials who are under 50 years of age and thus sometimes have up to 20 or 30 years of deposits, an expected pension for which they have been paying for for for years – on such a day it seems to be even more acute when colleagues of the government groups come to this speaker and these luxury campaigns, together with the two billions that will be spent for it – and the two billions that will be spent in the 30 years of these luxury battles in Austria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer]] That's it, Minister of State! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] I still know you from the time you were my colleague in the National Council, and I know that you are quite certain in this regard – I am convinced, although I am not yet a member of the National Defence Committee for a long time – that you have a much higher sensitivity, because you yourself were officials and, therefore, in turn, I am sure you know very well about this problem and you have certainly already addressed some people to it. [[Abg. Murauer:... the sensitivity is already fine!]] And that is exactly what it is to be addressed, ladies and gentlemen, what we are talking about – about the budget of the country's defence resort –! If it is to guarantee security for the Austrian population, then I can tell you that – and that is why, with this so-called incident, which is now a Causa Wolf and not a Causa that manoeuvred this aircraft – this security of the Austrian population is being affected by a hundred percent of much more than by uncertainty in Austria's air. [[Call the liberals: Please!]] [[Abg. Murauer: That's a funny thing at all... that you say the wolf ordered it!]] I'm sure! These 2 billion plus 2 billion are in no reasonable relation to what is being spent on other security measures, namely social security, on the question of security against border nuclear power stations! But there's a propaganda machine that's used on the other side so much that you say: We buy airplanes, behind me the budgetary flood; what do we know, what 2007 is, who is in the government in 2007 when it comes to numbers! The interim solution, which will then be found and which will once again burden the budget and the taxpayers in Austria, Mr Federal Minister, is not only unpleasant to me as a responsible Member of the Republic, but, in my view, as in no other point in the current Austrian government policy, the following is evident: [[Abg. Murauer: The Green!]] It is not about the supposed uncertainty or the guarantee of the security of the Austrian population, but about the relation of costs! I do not want to repeat again all the suspicions relating to the acquisition of the Eurofighters, which have been spread here many times and intensively, they are known to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Much has happened before your time, but the acting people are still sitting here in the house. [[Abg. Neudeck: Who do you mean now, Mrs. Colleague?]] But on the day of the decision-making of the budget it is necessary to underline that once again! Tomorrow, you will hopefully think – apologise: not of years, but of experience – of old ÖAPcher: Thank God I'm not sitting in the Redeemer's bank!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9646	Mr Platter spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9665	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Now it's time for me to speak. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The debate so far focused on the reform of the Austrian federal army, and therefore, of course, on the 2005/2006 budget. – I am currently on the move in all the federal states and, of course, I have a broad discussion on the reform of the Austrian federal army, but also on the control of airspace, on international operations, on the forces of international operations, because it cannot be so that politics can only be turned off from the desk, but also in the individual federal states. I am constantly confronted with the following questions: Why is a reform of the Austrian federal army necessary? – The answer to this is first – and this, of course, has to do with the budget – that in the last 15 years, security policy has changed a lot. When I think of the fall of the Iron Curtain, the fall of the Berlin Wall, the collapse of the USSR, the end of the Cold War – in addition to World War I, World War II – I must say that we have been living in security for decades now. This security has become a matter of course. Secondly, the world security map is now quite different. I would also like to give examples of this: the destruction of Yugoslavia, associated with the civil war; also huge ethnic conflicts – I am thinking of Central Asia, where we see this violence every day; I am thinking of our closer surroundings, it is bubbling in Bosnia-Herzegovina, in Kosovo, in March of this year there was unrest. Burning is the situation in Iraq, Sudan, Afghanistan and the Ivory Coast. If I add to the terrorist attacks of the 11th. In the United States, thinking about terror in Europe, in Madrid, on September 2001, I must say that the security situation has changed a lot. And we've got to adapt to her! What I want to say is: It is necessary that the foreign tasks of the Austrian federal army have the same meaning as the domestic tasks, because we can only meet these threats in cooperation with all states. This, of course, requires a corresponding budget. As I hear it, one thing is too much, the other too little. That's why we're probably already going the right way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need a modern, slim and international army. I am also very glad that in the 2005 budget a plus of €70 million is estimated and in the 2006 budget also €70 million, but it is particularly important to point out that, in addition to this moderate increase in the national defence budget, we have the power to keep the total proceeds from the property sales to 100 percent, so that we can carry out the reform of the Austrian federal army. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: This is a privilege!]] You have to consider that again and again. There have been intense discussions in this context, but the German Federal Reform Commission has pointed out, across all parties, that it must be a special objective in the budget discussions and negotiations to keep 100 percent of the proceeds from property sales. – This was achieved at 100 percent! Ladies and gentlemen! It has been discussed today about the tasks of the Austrian federal army, and I too would like to address them. If we are talking about "extremely national defence", this requires that we have to carry out, on the one hand, domestic tasks: first military protection of the population and its livelihoods – we can go back to military defence, but the military protection of the population and its livelihoods is necessary – second, security police assistants, third disaster missions. And, of course, it is necessary to operate active airspace monitoring. If you consider all possible threat scenarios, any security expert will give you the right to get the biggest threat out of the airspace. If, therefore, we are talking about the sovereignty of Austria – which is also important – but on the other hand, we say goodbye to airspace surveillance, it is absurd, ladies and gentlemen! Discussions have often been held about this, and I am very willing to talk about it: Who in this house thinks we don't need airspace surveillance? [[Abg. Ellwall: Stoisits!]] I would ask you to say this quite openly! – It will stay very, very quiet. You see, and that's why we also need interceptors for certain tasks. To have a discussion about it, Mrs Stoisits, that we could have done something different in the pension system if we had not bought the Eurofighters is just as absurd! Let's calculate! 2 billion € – and these 2 billion € guarantee that we will have 18 Eurofighters available for the next 30 to 40 years, including for your safety, for the safety of your children and children – that makes per Austrian one single 250 €! Faith You really think we could have financed another pension reform? - That's absurd! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With regard to the call made in connection with the visit of the Israeli President, Mrs Stoisits – you have pointed out that I have not been able to answer this again –: Of course, this use has also shown again how important it is that we have a locked airspace – that was the case – and that in the event that an unknown aircraft is approaching, we have equipment available to ascend and make radio contact. In this case there was no response at first, but finally we succeeded in removing this aircraft from the locked airspace. Ladies and gentlemen! If you're talking about information out there, I can tell you: This is well known, radio traffic has been handled via Austro Control. You won't believe that such a matter remains secret?- Oh, my God! Our people have been asked, and they have finally provided information. But I have to say I was at that time – this is a typical example! – Thank you for having these facilities at our disposal. Therefore: Security policy cannot always be popular, but in security policy it is best to do what is best for the security of the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now on foreign activities, ladies and gentlemen! I have found that foreign tasks are as important as domestic tasks, and we will be even more committed abroad. I am very happy about what our soldiers can do in the context of the entire spectrum of Petersberg's tasks; the decision-making of Article 23f is due to the then black and red government. And I guarantee you that, of course, any decision will involve the posting of the main committee staff. This is a matter of course! To question this is simply wrong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to talk briefly about the priorities of the budget. First point: The focus in the years 2005 and 2006 is to take this modernisation step towards the reform of the Austrian federal army. Secondly, it is important to me: Fight suits for our soldiers. – We currently have 1,600 combat suits, we will receive 16 000 combat suits in 2005 and 8 000 combat suits in 2006 so that we can provide the best possible protection to our soldiers. We have – and this has also been said somewhere today – available to 1 100 scatter protection vests – of course abroad – which provide appropriate protection for the soldiers, and in addition we will purchase 500 pieces of ball protection vests! All of this, of course, is only used for foreign operations, but we have therefore created a first tranche for the case of needs in order to give the soldiers the best possible protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition – to talk to the device – I am pleased that all Ulan shooters will be available next year. We will have a total of 112 Ulan tanks at our disposal at the end of next year – also a special protection for our soldiers. We will also buy in the next two years: VW buses and transporters, buses, all-protection vehicles such as the Dingo, 20 pieces will be purchased; the first will be delivered at the beginning of next year. The “Dingo” is the device we have in use abroad that offers the highest protection class so that we can protect our soldiers abroad – in turn – in the best possible way. In addition, we will have available in the field of communication, telecommunications, 4.9 million € for direct radios, handheld radios. That means: a proper package to protect the soldiers, to protect the Republic of Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to three ‘cake pieces’ in which the entire budget is divided: Staff expenditure of 58.27 percent – that is € 1 054 million – operating costs of 21.16 percent – € 383 million – and investments will be made next year by € 372 million, which is 20 percent. My objective will be to increase investment to a third in the medium term. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have a budget for the necessary procurements, we have a budget so that the reform can be implemented, a good budget – including empowerment – and I ask you for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9765	I call Mr Fauland. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9783	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Comrades from the Austrian Federal Heir! I cannot, of course, disagree with what Mr Stoisits said in connection with the Katzav incident. You have to look at the situation soberly: We had a helicopter connection that a civilian aircraft approached in a locked airspace. Austrian airspace surveillance has worked! The Saab 105 have intercepted and driven off this aircraft. Mrs Stoisits: If we hadn't done this and had caused this plane a "near miss" and would have been reported in the media: “Nearly traffic accident of a civilian machine with a helicopter connection with President Katzav”, what would you have called us? – The necessary airspace surveillance does not work! – I am very glad that she has worked, and this incident has also proved that it is necessary. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Let us now come to the 2005 budget. We have a more than €70 million. This is certainly gratifying because it serves to increase the possibilities for fulfilling the mandate of the Austrian federal army. With the already mentioned procurement of the hardened vehicle “Dingo”, the German army is taking a step in the right direction. It is our duty to allow our Austrian soldiers the best possible equipment to protect their lives in the context of foreign shipments. However, from my point of view, it is incomprehensible that in barely explainable hurry we should necessarily shorten our service time until 2006. The Federal Army is not a self-evident, but it has in principle to ensure the protection of the homeland. In 2006, however, border use will continue to be maintained, and whether this slightly populist reduction in military service time will take place as early as the beginning of 2006 will only prove successful. Furthermore, I am not convinced that the German army can also implement the necessary implementation measures that this reduction entails in time, which is why there may be a slight uncertainty, which is also noticeable, in the area of the Federal Force. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What are the consequences of a reduction in military service time? On the one hand, we need more in the field of training. There will be more time-limits, and these time-limits will also require a greater amount of resources to ensure the quality of training so far. If there are less or equal resources, this certainly does not benefit from the quality of training. Furthermore, there will be a concentrated preparation for border use and other important military issues in the field of training will remain on the line in the long term. Finally, to quote a few examples: Disadvantages may also be in the area of box advertising. Of course, it's only six months to motivate people to stay with the federal army. So the reduction will also have a negative impact on it for six months. [[Abg. Grade: If advertising is good, it will last six months!]] Of course, it is good, but the experience shows that most advertising is only operated from the sixth to the eighth month, because people only know how good the federal army is and are also motivated to stay there. [[Abg. Gradwelt: If the German army is outstanding every six months, they come in a row!]] This essential decision for Austrian security should probably be considered. One should weigh all advantages and disadvantages and refrain from making preliminary decisions out of a stomach decision. One of the last issues that also disillusion me personally is the use of my resort, the country defence resort, when it comes to the time soldiers of old. In the field of time soldiers – and we are speaking here not of a few people but of between 30 000 and 40 000 people affected – harmonisation would have been a major disadvantage. It was only on the initiative of the Freeman and because of the over-dimensional use of our Social Minister Herbert Haupt that we were able to drag in at the last moment to prevent disadvantages for the time soldiers. Of course, we liberals are aware of the fact that the German army is subject to a reform process. But this cannot end exclusively with a proportional reduction in the strength of the troops, but the federal army must make itself fit for the requirements of the 21st century. ==References== The new threats require flexible handling of such new situations. Also external security, ladies and gentlemen, is not a political game, but a necessity to preserve our quality of life and democratic freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9845	As the next speaker, Mr Prehauser is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9863	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The fetish catcher does a good job of messing up the federal army's budget. [[Abg. Lens: Please, something new!]] If you take into account the annual costs that the federal army needs in order to carry out its task properly – that has always required 0.8 percent of GDP in the past – then you can say that there are two periods in history in which these 0.8 percent have been significantly lowered. Firstly, no one in Parliament will be present today – there was a marked setback at the time of the single government of the ÖVP. But you know from what has always been clearly articulated before that this must have been a great disappointment; Mr Schöls, I understand you're sorry. On the one hand, the promise, on the other hand, to demand – this is a different thing than ultimately to bear responsibility for the finances. The then Minister of Finance and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic have just been shown boundaries and had to bow to them. Secondly, we are now significantly below 0.8 percent, which is about 0.75 percent, and the government of ÖVP/FPÖ – two parties that have always put their hands on the issue from the beginning – have a special responsibility for the German army. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to say that for us, that is also true of the Social Democrats. Only we are a party that stands on the ground with both feet and makes the feasible, the unthinkable may be debated, but yet recognize if it is not feasible. We bought interceptors at a purchase price of almost €3 billion. If you know that the federal army has €1.8 billion available in the year and you also need to know about the desperate conditions of the force in some equipment, then you really must regret that you have not found a cheaper way to secure the airspace. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fauland]] Mr Fauland, I would also like to say to our group: The performance at this stage The incident was not exactly excellent – we would rather not talk about it, be glad that nothing happened! – but I don’t think we should take that up. It wasn't a thing to become famous. The publication of how to approach the matter was not professional, can get better. [[Abg. Murauer: What wasn't all right? What was wrong?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the future, we will assist the Minister when it comes to raising the money needed to maintain the operation. If you know that the package of € 233 million will be disintegrated from the current budget in the future, you can say that this will be difficult enough. Today it will not be so bad yet, but next year it will be quite proper, and in 2007 already €54 million from the current budget for the additional costs will be spent. – At what cost, I ask you! Ladies and gentlemen! Only by selling property – of course we also confess that the proceeds from it are to be fully available to the German army – will this not be possible. Many federal states will cry out for joy when it comes to closing down in their area of the federal army. This is also an economic size that should not be neglected. We are on your side, Minister, if it is credible. You say you're going through the countries and informing us. I can only remind you at this point of your Salzburg trip of information, not much has come out of information – apart from the indication that you are waiting for what the Commission will eventually bring out and then apply to us. That was too little information, Mr. Federal Minister! If you are unable to articulate transparently, we cannot say: There we are! If we say we agree, we need to know what to do – then you can rely on us!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9919	The next speaker was Mrs Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9937	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Prehauser, I missed you on our information trip to Manching. I would recommend you take the next time, maybe you would have the information you are missing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A budget increase of €70 million for military matters, as we have heard, is foreseen in the 2005 federal estimate, And this is positive – positive if you see the overall budget in connection with the fact that 100 percent of the proceeds from the property sales will flow to the German army to ensure the implementation of the federal army reform. Despite the strict budgetary policy of our Minister of Finance, especially in view of the largest tax reform in the Second Republic, a very clear signal towards the Austrian Federal Army has been sent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that only a powerful federal army can guarantee security in our country. But that also means that the security of our soldiers is the top priority in their efforts. Our soldiers are the largest capital of the federal army. And that is why, our Federal Minister has already mentioned, focuses on the security of soldiers: Fighting suits, protective equipment, investment in the fleet, costs for training in Germany and abroad, and communication improvements. Our Minister of State will also invest the additional funds in future-oriented projects of the Federal Army, and the corresponding budget is a prerequisite for the implementation of the largest military reform of the Second Republic. Security is the highest and most important asset for all Austrians. Security is far too valuable to carry out this political polemic. And I am disappointed that Mrs Stoisits' speech, as a mother, where her children are a big concern – and we have heard this from the Committee on Budgets – makes such a party policy at the expense of security. I would like to thank our Federal Minister for not afraid to assume responsibility for realizing that he is acting in a political way and is not afraid of implementing unpopular measures in the sense of security. As a mother, not only my children are at my heart: What can we give our children better and left behind than a safe and life-worthy Austria? – Our security policy is a great contribution.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e9992	The next speaker was Mrs Lunacek. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10010	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, I would like to start with a subject which has not yet been discussed, but which has to do with security, but fortunately not directly in Austria, namely the question of landmines, the antipersonnel mines. As you know, Austria was very much involved in the fact that it came to the Ottawa Convention at all, it was actually very active here. I have always welcomed this and I also thought it very useful. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Determiningly involved!]] Yes, most importantly, Mr Spindelegger, that is true. As I said, I also think it is a great thing that Austria has been so strongly involved in it. At the end of November, the first review conference will be held in Nairobi at the beginning of December, five years after the Ottawa Protocol. It is led by a renowned Austrian diplomat, Ambassador Wolfgang Petritsch, who is probably a term for all of you. Unfortunately, the Ottawa Convention has not yet been implemented by all the states, and Ambassador Petritsch, as head of this review conference, can also very well use support from the Austrian Federal Government when it comes to moving other countries to continue in implementation. This, for example, concerns all the gaps and grey zones of the ban. For example, in Article 1 of the Convention, it is unclear whether a Contracting State violates this Article 1 if it participates in a joint military action in which anti-personnel mines are used. It would simply be necessary at this conference – and this also to you, Mr Minister, with the request that your colleagues from other countries, who still have doubts as to whether they should fully implement this, simply clarify it – not only to address the already reached, but also to address these gaps and grey areas and to ask: What will happen to make this impossible in the future, so that these antipersonnel mines will not really be produced or laid? – I think this is a very important part, and Austria has always known about it. One point: Mr. Minister, I myself was on 26 May. October not on Heroes Square and didn't look at the show of the German army, but I've looked at the plans there, whether there's something there that Austria does with Austrian tax money to remove these mines, finance mine appliances, finance actions that actually protect people, so that they won't be mutilated or even killed by such a mine. Austria spends some money on this under the development cooperation budget. I think it would have been a great occasion, as part of this show on 26 May. October, on the National Day, to also present what Austria is doing in the field of mine-search equipment, in the area where it is really about protecting people from the consequences of war and these cruel and cruel anti-personnel mines. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pepper.]] Why didn't you do that? Why wasn't there that day on Heroes Square? – And if it was not already this year, perhaps it is possible to make such an important contribution next year, through Austria to peace, to the protection of people, to present to the public – and not only an attack from a Eurofighter and other military device, but precisely where Austria is now doing something to actually protect people. Now on the question of what it looks like with KIOP and with the “Battle Groups”. Mr Spindelegger mentioned that a concept was sent to the National Council in September. I have not seen it, we have now tried to find out where it would have been in the short term; we will follow it again. But I'm asking: If that is something that the EIA is so massively committed to our participation, then why not put it on the agenda of the main committee and thus give the Minister the opportunity not to explain to us about the media why we should participate, but to explain to us in the main committee why it is so important to him and you that Austria participates in it? - We don't want to join them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interim note by Federal Minister Platter.]] This must be debated in the main committee, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Spindelegger! I very much hope that you may now take the initiative. And if it is so important to you, then put it on the agenda of the next Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we will discuss it. Let me also briefly explain why we can't start in this form with the "Battle Groups", as they are now planned. In principle, Mr Pilz has already mentioned this: If at all, then such a thing is only related to a truly common foreign policy, defined by a peace policy orientation, when such groups are used at all, and not so, as it is now unfortunately happening, that the horse is stowed from behind and one says: Now we are making military, and about common foreign policy and this peace policy orientation, as one prevents these conflicts from happening at all, we will break our heads later! – So this is one of the conditions whose fulfillment from our point of view would be necessary to participate in it. But there are also a few others. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In fact, they want to participate in the “structured cooperation”. This means that some states are massively increasing the military budget – around 2 per cent are in the conversation – and by themselves decide – the few who do so, decide alone and not the entire EU, not the entire Council! – where this is used. A UN mandate they don't want to provide for it at all. However, they have noticed that Austria will not participate in this “structured cooperation”, because there we would have to increase the military budget and various other things – it will not play. One possibility is now, if you say you want to participate in the “Battle Groups” that this is a certain detour, because as we now know, almost all of the lead groups for these “battle groups” are those who will participate in the “structured cooperation”. [[Interim note by Federal Minister Platter.]] – Yes, but Sweden has refused to do so with Austria – as far as I am aware. That is, you want to participate in the “structured cooperation” about the detour of these “battle groups”. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! We Greens will not participate in this project. We will certainly not agree to this, with or without “structured cooperation” in Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Time!]] – It’s my time, not yours, and I still have it. Another point on what security policy is really and what it should look like in Europe. For us Greens, the idea of a peace orientation is what Austria has done and done in recent decades in the context of active neutrality policy, and the idea that these principles of active neutrality policy should be strengthened, where it is a matter of civil conflict prevention, where it is a priority to contribute to the fact that people can live in security, and above all that those elements of social, ecological and economic security are present, whose absence is often the reason for armed conflicts at all. This is the green position also with regard to a common European foreign policy, which can only be followed by a common security and defence policy. This paradigm change is necessary. As we are at the budget, let me conclude with a call for the overall budget: If we define security as something comprehensive, in the area of social, ecological, economic development, and I see how high the budget of Austria is for development cooperation – if it is true, it is supposed to be 0.25 percent of GDP in 2005; it's tiny 0.25 percent! – then I have to say: As long as this is not increased, we do not even need to talk about an increase in the defense budget! We Greens do not want to talk about it anyway, but it is rather a shift from the military to the civil sector. These are our proposals, and they should go in the direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10107	The next speaker was Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10125	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Federal Minister, you continue your success story with the current budget as regards the federal army's financial resources. I remind you: In 2003 and 2004 € 70 million per year, then the security package, December 2003, again 17 million more and now again 70 million more. The fact that the increases to two-thirds are due to actual expenditure is a right way forward. Ladies and gentlemen! We want a powerful federal army responsible for security in Austria, but also for the security of our troops. Federal Minister! I am very glad that you continue to push full steam ahead with the reform in the field of defence. I think it is also good – because the funding of the reform has been addressed – that you can bring the proceeds from the property sales back to 100 percent of your place of business. If you look at the focus of the budget on equipment, training and communication – for example, communication at €4.9 million – you can say: That's exactly what we need to meet the needs of our army. To address the priorities briefly, Minister of State: A strong domestic army for the military protection of the inhabitants and their livelihoods, but we also want the federal army to be maintained for full use in the event of disasters. But we also want a strong army in Europe, which provides peace and security where this is necessary. During my visits to Golan and also in Sarajevo, I could see that our soldiers there are the best ambassadors and the best representatives of our country. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] For this very reason, it is right – because you have addressed the scatter protection vests – that you spend money on the security of the soldiers. Mr Gaál! I was in Sarajevo, too, and I saw the vests. It's not the enough number yet, but you can't say there's none. [[Abg. Gaál: Ballguard vests not!]] I've been talking about splinter protection vests. To the German army abroad, you also have to say: It must not be so that we have a two-class federal army, foreignly with top equipment and domestically we have nothing, but we must see that the federal army is well equipped in every direction. With regard to Mr von der FPÖ's comments on the reduction of military service to six months, I would just like to say briefly: The box advertising for the Federal Army actually begins in the EF-year or in the VbKeit, and that is what those who were with the Federal Army know in the first four months – and not within the basic military time. Finally, I would like to thank you, Mr Minister, as one of the young people here for working for apprentices in your department and having 200 apprentices in your department at the end of the year. You've doubled the number. On behalf of the youth I thank you for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10168	The next speaker was Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10186	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Minister, on the occasion of the budget hearing, you have said that we are on a sensational path at KIOP and that your focus is on training. That's right. However, there is also a gap between words and reality. I was also in Sarajevo and was able to convince myself in discussions at the Butmir Camp, in which is actually the problem that has been addressed many times today, namely in the ball protection vests, combat suits, but also in the limited equipment for special uses, for example cameras. Federal Minister! I also had to find out – ladies have said this to me, because at Camp Butmir there are also ladies – that the training or the application is too “honey”. The ladies thought – perhaps also a reason for the high drop-out ratio that women have in the army after training – that it would be necessary to do one to two days of sniffing with a habital march and not just a day of career in the jogging suit and in shoes where the obstacle track is far away. They also believe that a strengthening of strength is necessary for women in the army – weaker ones also have strengths, and these strengths are to be promoted. That's what I wanted to tell you. On "Honey" advertising, Minister: There is a folder that calls in connection with KIOP, which should address or address young people. The title reads as follows: Adventure, team spirit and money. – Mr Minister, as I know you have not seen this folder, because an adventure is not international use! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The highest responsibility, the highest effort and, of course, the highest level of compliance are necessary. I would like to ask you, Minister, in the sense of those who are going to make use of this folder, called "Adventure", in order not to make false promises in this direction. I would like to say something that is of particular concern to me. We have heard, also from the Federal Minister, that the equipment, when I put it in summary, is in progress. If you see our soldiers, our executives working internationally, you can only say: They're doing something out of everything! They do something like this that in the personal conversation of the commanders of the US Army and the commanders of the French Army told me: Be proud of your soldiers, of your leaders in the army, we, the International, can learn from them! But unlike our soldiers, they all have the complete equipment, our only half – that can't be it. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Minister! One last word on the focus of budget and education. Women's promotion is going off in this budget. I can't read anywhere that a corresponding focus has been set specifically where the high fluctuations exist, where the trained soldiers leave the army again. I would ask you to put the thumb on it and put a focus on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10238	Since it is now at 3 p.m., I am interrupting the negotiations on the deliberations group XII, so that the requested debate of a urgent question can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure Dr. Erwin Rasinger, Barbara Rosenkranz, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Health and Women on ensuring the first-class care of the population with health services (2334/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10268	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 2334/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10413	I call Mr Rasinger to speak as the first questioner on the grounds of the question. Its statements shall not exceed 20 minutes. This is a mandatory provision of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Rasinger, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10432	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I will prove to you that the word of the economist Felder is true, according to which the health reform is more delicate than the pension reform because it is not planned and no one can predict which diseases he receives when – this is contrary to the pension reform. In my opinion, the urgency is given because international developments in health really worry about financial and rationalization. We in Austria have been negotiating for months, and it is about maintaining national health consensus, namely that everyone, regardless of age and income, should enjoy a high level of health care. It is not natural that we are in second place in this area in the EU today. We may even be in the first place in view of the conditions in Finland. It is about that, through our health reform, we do not want to promote an open or hidden rationing in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In England, for example, smokers are rowed in the back of bypass operations, not in Austria. In Oregon, but partly also in Switzerland, from 5 percent of the risk of healing is not replaced by the costs for the treatment of health insurance. I would like to see what would be going on in Austria if you refused to treat someone who might have a three percent chance of healing. The factors are the same everywhere, in Austria as internationally: People's life expectancy is increasing. Since 1970 we have spent ten years in life expectancy. The 75-year-old has four to five diagnostics, four to five drugs, the 80-year-old causes eleven times more health costs than a 20-year-old. I have today read a work that has resulted from the following: In the rehabilitation area, it was previously excluded that you have rehabilitated a 90-year stroke patient, for example. Do you know what you're doing today? – In 40 percent of stroke patients who are being rehabilitated, they do not have to go to the nursing home. In other words, you save economic costs elsewhere, namely home care costs – and above all, it is human when one can somehow deal with one's life. But rehabilitation takes six weeks instead of four weeks. This work has come out all new today. Just as progress is actually the main driving force in health care, not so much the ageing. 15 years ago, the Kernspin tomography in Austria was de facto a new land technology. International health economists have said that's all Larifari, you don't need it. 15 years ago my brother had strong headaches. He was a clinical assistant and the first to have a nuclear spin tomography done in Germany because he suddenly became unconscious. He had a brain tumor and then died of the consequences. We had to bring the patients to Munich at the time, and the equipment had an accuracy at the time, as if you were looking through a milk glass pane. If you make a core spin tomography today with someone who has headaches for more than 14 days or four weeks, it's an art mistake. 999 out of 1,000 will certainly not have a tumor, but only calming down is important, and woe to the clinic doctor, who overlooks one in 1,000. That is, in health care we act with 100 percent technology, and that makes the whole system so expensive, but probably also quite expensive. It is always the question to ask: Can we afford that? Or: Before, it was de facto not possible to diagnose exactly a tape disc incident. Today we can say where he is, how he looks how big he is, whether you have to operate, yes or no, how the forecast is. We know that this progress is even making problems for us: 20 percent of the core spin tomographies result in disc disc events, although the patients have no complaints. Nevertheless, this is an important information, and we can help patients. This means that the diagnosis is made more precise and faster, which is of course also very important for the labour market, because a delayed diagnosis causes first of all more sickness costs and second longer illness. And that this is a huge international business is also clear: The medical technology business is estimated at $400 billion. Philips and Siemens companies say quite openly that this business field is hardly relocateable to China or India and is our main leader in value creation. And Austria can play with it. We have founded a Medical Technology Union in Innsbruck, and we have a very high quality among the technicians, doctors and so on and also big hospitals where it is worth researching. I think it's, quite honestly, a nonsense when health economists say how it happened at the meeting in St. Wolfgang, we don't need that, that's surplus information. Or take a different example. We've had the sign interpreters today. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Signed spoke interpreter!]] When a young child is subjected to hearing screening – what we do in Austria, thank God, this is not usual internationally – and in doing so, it turns out to be deficits and then you use a cochlea implant to the child in the first year of life, it can hear almost normally and learn the language normally. The child's not deaf then. Our reform ensures the financing of hospitals, so that it does not come to a situation like in Salzburg, where the competent councillor said: More than 25 can't be operated per year because we don't have the money. – Well, tell the 26th, the 27th that his child must remain deaf, just because the funding is not secured! These are the problems we have faced in the health reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The best minister of health in the world cannot dissuade the costs if, for example, 42 000 cardiac angiographies are made per year, plus 20 per cent per year, and that is not because the doctors are so happy to angiographize, but because there is simply the need to do so. Of these, about 15,000 are dilated, increased, without heart surgery. About 20 percent of these get a so-called modern drug eluting stent. These stents cost twice as much: 1 500 € per stent instead of 800 €. If I'm patient and get such a stent, I have a 50 percent lower rate that the vessel will go back. These are successes, and that is ethically acceptable and necessary. The doctor who doesn't do this is complaining. We write this into our patient charts. That is why we should be so honest and tell the patient that this progress, if we want to make it work for everyone, must be manageable, but must be financed somehow. Or take my favorite example: the knee prosthesis: Ten years ago almost nothing was operated on in the field, today about 10,000 knee prostheses are used each year. That means 10,000 fates less a year. They could also fill the patient with pain medications, which is often not entirely safe. 18 000 hips are operated per year, 50,000 operations of the Grey Star are performed. People see again, can take part in life. 50,000 – this is more than St. Pölten has inhabitants. Actually, a reason to be proud, and not a reason to say constantly, it's all so expensive, there are only burdens, burdens, burdens – I can't hear the word anymore! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You mustn't be surprised if people on television see something medical, that they go to the doctor and say I want that too. He only needs to have seen a medical program and then he says that I want it – and that's what he says. We must also follow our Sunday speeches in Parliament. This reform also affects the bureaucracy in health care. In America, the cost of pointless documentation bureaucracy is twice as high, because there are very many private insurance companies with very different service catalogues, so that a patient in hospital needs to be screened first, which insurance he fits in, and see if the medications, the operations are covered by how much he has to pay and so on. In Austria, thanks to God, the bureaucracy is not so great. Internationally, the trend is more heading towards bureaucracy, towards security, which accounts for 10 percent of health costs across Europe; this value will, unfortunately, continue to rise. I hope that through the Telematics Act and through a meaningful documentation we need, but not superfluous documentation, which then lands somewhere in the basement, it is ensured that we do not destroy money and time uselessly. This is not a matter of course, ladies and gentlemen. In Holland, the trend is quite different. In Holland, the hospital beds are radically reduced, the self-retaining is increased, and in all cases, death aid is provided to 3,200 people a year, and the number of deaths is so high again. Show me an apallic who says voluntarily there, I want death aid! They won't be asked at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10488	Deputies! What's an apallic? We're all not doctors. The state language is German.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10504	An apallic is someone who is de facto brain dead and in whom only the organs work, but the brain is not. We have about 150 patients in Austria, who unfortunately fall into an apallic syndrome. In the Netherlands, there are no longer de facto these patients because they probably wanted to help with death, but they probably could never go there. The law allows that. We have prevented this in Austria, and we are proud of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Take England here: 1.3 million people are on the waiting list for operations, 100 hospitals need to be rebuilt because there is nothing available, 15,000 doctors and 25,000 sisters are “buyed together” across Europe, the emergency care does not work at all. It will take eight years for you to have a functioning emergency care in England to be picked up if you have a heart attack. That's what it looks like. If you make a mistake in health care today, it will be in ten years. But then you need ten years to correct the mistake again. The biggest concern is the Federal Republic of Germany. There the municipalities were financially starved, unlike Austria, because we ensured this in the financial compensation, together with the SPÖ-led federal states. Secondly, there is a rather brutal performance-oriented funding, which leads to the following: The municipalities cannot afford the hospitals. The stock companies operate hospital chains pick out the raisins. That is, they seek out the hospitals of which they believe they are profitable. The other hospitals have to lock up at all. And in the hospitals they run, the salaries of the doctors and sisters are reduced by 40 percent, the overtime must be done for nothing and so on. Now one could say that's our meat, but suddenly the patients are divided into good and bad. A good patient is a relatively young uncomplicated bypass patient, a heart-stepmaker patient, a hip patient. A bad patient is an old patient who is slightly confused, is mildly kidney ill, is hearty, has rheumatism, is therefore multimorbid. I'll tell you what's going to happen: These patients will no longer see hospital beds. One divides people into good and bad risks, one offers the whole to the shareholder value, and the consequence of this is quite clear: 20 to 30 percent of the hospitals will simply disappear from the map. There you can say again, it's meat. Especially in East Germany, there will be distances from about 100 kilometers to the nearest hospital. There you can also say that it is us sausages how the old people get there. There are mostly old people and not 20-year-olds with fast cars in the hospital. We didn't do this in Austria. We are making a structural plan in the framework of health reform, we are restructuring the hospitals in Holdings country-by-country: Upper Austria, Carinthia, Lower Austria. We're running hospitals like private, but we haven't privatized the supply order, we haven't subordinated it to the shareholder value. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The fact that the German doctors don't care about it shows me that only more than 6,000 graduates leave their education and that the German doctors leave their country in series. 400 Bavarian doctors have left Germany in the direction of England, Norway and so on, according to reports of the “German Medical Journal”. There is a medical tourism because there are better conditions abroad. 400 practices are empty in East Germany. There's no care there, no house doctor Dr. Rasinger, there's nothing there. In Germany, you can treat yourself “at last. ” Bravo, I can only say. We in Austria stand by this reform to the Austrian tradition. We want long-term thinking in health care, sustainable thinking. We're on it. It was a minister Steyrer who promoted the transplant system. Today we are world leaders in this area. The woman minister was able to welcome and celebrate with the thousandth heart transplant patients. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Minister Lösnak has put the emergency medical care on new feet. We are world leaders, including in the field of helicopter supply. Minister Ettl was the first to promote the care of stroke patients. Minister Hostasch introduced the Healthy Austria Fund. Minister Chief has taken sustainable world-class steps in hospice supply. This reform, which we are now making, is reasonable: There is no saving for saving, no rationalizing for the sake of rationalizing, and there is no balding. But, ladies and gentlemen, please a little more honesty! Sage You don't always have the population: Load, load, load! No one can really hear it anymore. Your alternatives are: close, ration, ration hidden. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's not true!]] The basic problem of Austria is very well addressed with this reform, Professor Grünewald: joint planning. This is one of our problems, that in Austria they often do not know what the other wants. We'll try to transfer more outside. It is clear, however, that in the hospital every eighth post is a doctor's office, then of course you also pay the administrator, the gardener, the porter, while the service often does not arrive. I'm not an enemy of the hospital, some of which we need in the hospital, but it's not clear if 90 percent of cancer treatments can take place outside the hospital that this doesn't happen. This is the case because the health insurance fund is not doing anything because she says it costs us something. Or why does thyroid treatment not take place outside the hospital? - Because the health insurance fund says it costs more. The same is true of diabetes treatment and dialysis treatment. Our basic problem was that one to the other put the cost down and everyone said: I've got a black zero. And I can prove to you: The cheapest is the settled doctor. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: And what's the best?]] But the exact demarcation – here I am with you – is often difficult to pull. I don't want a bald blow that looks like you lock every third hospital and just go down with the supply. How do the major projects of Mr. Health Economists look? They're called: Lock every third hospital! After that I look at you when you lock every third hospital in Austria. You're going to be Christian. I'm afraid of such a care. I am also afraid, quite honestly, of the EU average. I want to raise a world-class average and the level of supply in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We do not need bed-reducing fetishism, but we need a supply that is worth becoming so-called. Nor do we need proposals like those made by Mr Köck, who, by the way, has failed as a politician. In fact, he called for an annual levy of €1,000 on self-retainers. What's going on then, you can paint it yourself, that's at least one month's salary. Or: In St. Wolfgang another health economist said: There's nothing left from the age of 77. – Of course, this is cheaper, but this cannot be allowed by a government with responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Or others have said again, we will deliberately create queues. I'll tell you one thing: This reform is necessary, it was overdue, it is courageous, and it is feasible, and it will not make us poorer, it will no longer burden us, but rather than rationalize, it will continue to position us in the top of the world. Please join the national consensus which we have always contributed and which the countries are now also carrying! Only the Greens and the SPÖ are still outside. The door is wide open – see you in the national consensus!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10593	In response to the question, Mrs Bundesminister für Gesundheit und Frauen Rauch-Kallat spoke. Her speaking time, Mrs Minister, should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10613	Mr President. High house! The political debate over the last few weeks has been very marked by the field of health. On the basis of the intensive debate on the financing of the health system, some of the aspects contained in this reform have been missed in the public debate. I am therefore very grateful that I can deal with some of these points in the context of this urgent question. This reform has been fully prepared, we have debated very intensively for 12 months on a very broad basis. This discussion took place in a reform dialogue, in the framework of a health conference, in twelve health dialogues, and, of course, in the course, very intensive discussions with the countries, the country leaders, the national health experts and, in the last episode, also with the national financial experts. Yesterday we introduced a large package to the Council of Ministers, which was also decided by the Council of Ministers and sent to the House, so that in the next few weeks we will have the opportunity to discuss and decide on these matters in the committee responsible, in the plenary session of the National Council and the Federal Council. We have certainly succeeded in creating a necessary structural reform with additional important laws such as a framework law on the quality of health services and a health telematics law, which will ensure that our health system will be safeguarded not only in the next one, two years, but in the medium term, with low level of access for all. Furthermore, it will ensure that everyone and everyone in Austria who needs medical assistance also receives it, regardless of age and income, and it will ensure that we also make a paradigm change towards health promotion and prevention, so that our concern that as far as possible all Austrians stay healthy as long as possible and reach a high age with high quality of life becomes more realistic than before. I think that with this paradigm change, we will achieve health promotion, that the Austrians will take on their own responsibility for their health and place more care on the maintenance of their health, or that we want to provide medical assistance to all those who, on account of whatever influences, whether it be accidents, diseases, occupational diseases or other diseases, who need medical help quickly to get them back to health as soon as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let me now deal specifically with the questions raised in this urgent question. Questions 1 and 2 concerning control instruments: They know that one of the main objectives of the health reform in 2005 was the anchoring of institutional cooperation between countries and social security as the respective authorities for the intra- and extra-mural sector, i.e. for the hospitals and the established area. With the creation of a Federal Health Agency as a public health fund and the health platforms at country level as bodies of the Land Health Fund, this objective has now been achieved jointly with the countries within the framework of an Article-15a agreement. I am very proud that within a very short time, it was possible to complete this 15a agreement and to: in conjunction with the Stability Pact and the Financial Balance by the Council of Ministers. In addition to the planned development of quality standards and a service supply planning as a framework for the provision of health services, such as seam management between the two sectors and the transparent presentation of the flow of funds – this is so important because the transparency had not been given so far – as a control instrument for the two currently separate sectors is primarily the cooperation area to name the reform pool. With regard to this reform pool, the countries agreed that for projects, which provide for shifts from the intra- into the extra-mural area or vice versa – but I assume that it is increasingly shifting from the intra- into the extra-mural In 2005 and 2006, at least one percent of the total funds will be allocated in the following years, at least 2% of the total funds, which means that this is a non-insignificant sum. Through the new health agency and the new health platforms at country level, I expect to avoid double-railing and the closure of any health gaps and to increase efficiency in Austrian health care. In particular, through a functioning seam management, the transition between the individual sectors should function smoothly for patients and therefore be no longer perceptible, which is particularly important for older people, for people without family members. Furthermore, the use of synergies and efficiency potentials of the use of resources is intended to be as efficient as possible with the aim of ensuring the most uniform regional supply. What are the benefits of this for patients? – A functioning seam management will lead patients to rehabilitation without undue delay, namely to the practical doctor or to the practical physician, to the specialist doctor or to the nurse of the hospital, and thus to a significant reduction in waiting time. Avoiding double conductiveness prevents unnecessary expenses from being spent by patients, and especially where people at home then do not find the necessary family care, this seam management will ensure that everything is organized from organizations, social organizations, relief facilities, from home care to home care and to food on wheels, before the patient leaves the hospital. In the field of health telematics, it will be possible, in particular, by using modern information and communication technologies, to provide patients and service providers with the necessary information such as findings, prescriptions and the like, of course, while respecting data protection, privacy. We will also ensure that double conductivity can be avoided, and above all we will make it possible for a general physician in a remote region of Austria to have a second opinion by telemedicine at a specialist doctor of a university clinic or a primary hospital. In order to help the patient or the patient save the trip to the main hospital and save the health system costs. This will lead to more quality for patients and greater safety for general physicians, because they can also keep contact with colleagues without having to buy unnecessary travel times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The implementation of a global Austrian quality system and systematic quality work will ensure that health services are provided at an Austrian level, as high as possible, for the benefit of patients. Question 3: How will service supply planning take place in the future? The new agreement aims to extend the service supply planning for 2005 by one year through a continuation of the ÖKAP, the Austrian Hospital Plan, which is intended as a transitional period. During this time, the Austrian structure plan Health presented by us in the draft will be completed with the countries in order to ensure that this performance plan is actually concrete and leads to a service offer. We have for the first time left the Austrian health structure plan from a location-related bed discussion to a quality-related performance discussion, regardless of whether this performance takes place in the intramural or the extramural area; it must contain the same quality standards. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Question 4: “How is the medical care of the population in the hospitals secured from 1.1.2005?” Through this Article-15a agreement and the preparation of quality standards and a service plan, medical care at a high level is also available from 1. ==References== As regards the financial viability of these benefits, it has been agreed to provide additional funds of approximately €300 million to countries and social security funds in equal parts. In addition, the Federal Government and the Länder agreed to apply measures to reduce costs and increase efficiency or to control to the same extent. This will be achieved especially in the intramural area, because the increase in daily clinical services will lead to a reduction in hospital days, of bed-laden days and thus also to a reduction in the number of acute beds. Question 5: “What concrete measures do you want to keep the Austrians from making a lifestyle change or a rethink of a more conscious life and a healthy lifestyle? “ We have already launched a major health promotion movement last year, in which a number of initiatives have been very successful over the last 14 months, in the life environment of people, both children and young people, in kindergartens and schools, as well as in adults, especially in the field of occupational health promotion, with very many cooperation partners as well as with seniors by the seniors. We have focused on five areas: nutrition, exercise, mental health, and health. mental balance – which is very important in times of increasing hustle and bustle – on the prevention of accidents and medical care. All these are important pillars. That's how I can do the 6th. Answer the question as to what the precautionary examination is about to happen again. My predecessor Herbert Haupt and State Secretary Reinhart Waneck have begun to carry out an evaluation of the precautionary examination that has been in place in Austria for 30 years in order to make it up-to-date. It has for about 30 years had every Austrian, every Austrian from 19th century onwards. Year of life the right to carry out a preventive examination once a year free of charge. However, this was not differentiated by age or gender. We have now evaluated them by an expert body and have them updated in the field of science. In the meantime, this precautionary examination has also been renegotiated between doctors, doctors and the main association, so that from 1. January 2005 each Austrian can use this new precautionary examination. I guarantee you that, if the ophthalmologist's concern is that patients are going to the ophthalmologist more rarely to the ophthalmologist due to the reduction in the cost of glasses, we should, of course, also be able to integrate a question for the general physicians after the vision. This also includes a transfer to the ophthalmologist at regular intervals, ensuring that eye diseases are detected in good time. We will also link this precautionary investigation with an invitation system to ensure that the frequency increases in these precautionary investigations. This recovery system is also started at least every two years, with under 40s every three years. Nevertheless, the precautionary examination is, of course, available free of charge to anyone wishing to do so each year. Question 7: “How will you ensure that the benefits of modern information and communication technologies can benefit the entire population?” I can say that the health card is fully on schedule against other reports. The model coordination with the health card will be on the 15th. December of this year, i.e. in a little less than a month. The trial operation will run from January to March, and from March the rollout will start throughout Austria, so that all Austrians will have a health card by the end of 2005. We will then be able to carry out the monitoring of the medicinal products subject to the supervision or prior authorisation with this health card. For 2005, there will be a transitional solution that will run as unbureaucratic as possible. We will also have the e-receptacle relatively soon, at the latest from 2006, so that every patient, each and every social insured person can redeem a prescribed prescription with the health card in the pharmacy. Above all, in this health reform package, we have also included a Health Telematics Act and the establishment of a steering group to develop an electronic health act. This is, I believe, one of the most important measures we are taking to ensure better care for patients while avoiding double-differences, as I have mentioned earlier. Of course, this will have to be done under strict data protection regulations. I would like to invite you all to the meetings of this steering group. I would like all the groups of the House to participate in this steering group with their health speakers or with the data protection speakers. The participants of the countries and social security schemes are also invited. Question 8: “What positive effects does the cooperation of the projects “Fit for Austria” bring in the sports sector and “iSch” in the health sector? “ I should like to say briefly here that a proper and sufficient movement is an essential objective of health promotion. That is why we want to join more closely in the future with the State Secretary, who has already started a great action in the sense of sports kids. In particular, we will promote the projects “SportKids” in the preschool age and “Fit for School” in the school age, as they will also help to compensate for outstanding gymnastics. “Fit for business” for professionals and “Fit for 50 plus” for the older target group are further projects. Of course, we want to implement these projects with the Healthy Austria Fund and the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, the “Fit for Austria” offers will also be included in the health passports and included by the health promotion movement. On the last two questions perhaps very briefly: Quality assurance is a very important part of this health reform package. This is about the structural process and the quality of the results, to a large extent, regardless of whether this is done in the intra- or extra-mural area. The last question: “What would have been the consequences for individual patients and countries of a lack of health reform?” Ladies and gentlemen! If we did not succeed in concluding the Article 15a Treaty, the last Article 15a Treaty would have expired, the Salzburg model from 1978 would have entered into force again. This would have directly led to the social security system having to recover the hospital days by virtue of performance. This would have led to a collapse of Austrian social security funds. We are therefore very pleased that this scenario has been avoided and a common solution has been reached with the countries. I should like to invite you to continue working together on this reform package in the coming weeks, especially in the Committee. And I hope that this package will also find a broad majority in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10836	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are now going into the debate. The Rules of Procedure provide that no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. First speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. She wishes for 10 minutes of speaking time, which is also the legal person. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10861	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is not a question of refusing to do what is necessary, but of trying to create a majority for the needy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is exactly the position that we must have taken on this issue and that we should have taken. The situation we are faced with has already been discussed several times in the course of the social debate. Demography forces us to act. The age ratio, the ratio between young and old, which is essential and decisive for the financing of all social systems, will double in foreseeable time, that is to say, twice less favourable. We need to do something. In the health sector, this age ratio has been set several times. The number of elderly people, those who cause the cost of medicine – thank God we can also treat these people – is increasing a lot of what is now the case. At the same time, medical progress offers the opportunity to perform good but very expensive treatments. We had a clear position from the beginning: There must continue to be free access to all medical services. We reject a rationalization as it takes place in some European countries – that has already been tailor-made. And we also reject the fact that there is a rationalization through the back door. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Bures: There's nothing to be noticed!]] Whoever lets things drive – and that's what you did in the time you were responsible – he's risking the rotation through the back door. Then, for the time being unmistakable, but at some point for everyone, public health is going to screw down the services. Those who can financially compensate for these deficits will also do so. We don't want to answer this two-class medicine. And a skewer is who promises more than he can keep. Who wants to keep that the rationalization, the two-class medicine does not come, now has a political need for action, and we perceive it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The operational tasks were as clear as the objectives: First of all: The prevention, which has so far been a stepchild of Austrian health policy, must be upgraded. Quite clearly the principle: In order to have as many resources as possible to provide well for those who are hopefully less ill and less difficult to care for. Secondly, No new money into a reformable system. The structural reform, which has been launched and is now on the table, will bring about the greatest possible cost-effectiveness to ensure that every euro is spent as cost-effectively as possible. We cannot afford to spend only one euro efficiently, given the tasks that lie ahead of us even in the next few years. Only when this structural reform is fixed will it have to be on the table, there is a lack of funds in the short term. If it has to be, we need to talk about the provision of funds. This was exactly the question to be resolved with the countries in the course of the financial adjustment. ==References== October we have heard it, €300 million the countries need to finance their hospitals. The draft, which was on the table, came under the leadership of the SPÖ City Council Rieder. The three SPÖ-regulated countries have approved this proposal. I would not entirely forget this in the course of the whole debate, Mr Lacner, this morning you gave your opinion on it. And this proposal, if I may remind you, has found the approval of your country sizes, but we have immediately filed concerns. I can only remind you of how this proposal was: Increase in hospital costs from €8 to €10, binding, increase in health insurance contributions by 0.05 percent for employees and employers each, increase the maximum basis of assessment from €3 450 to €3 540, increase the recipe fee for original recipes to €5, for generics decrease from €4.35 to €4 and increase tobacco tax by 18 cents. You, Mr Lacner, said this morning that this reform would destroy legal health insurance – I have written it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] But there you are completely next to reality. Excuse me a lot, but that's ridiculous. The first proposal has found the approval of your people, but not our approval. We were able to exaggerate him. The proposal, which is now on the table, is essentially social. How can you say something like this about an improved possibility? By the way, you have generally and decided against self-retaining. Why drink wine and preach water? When you were responsible, 1981: Introduced self retention in medicinal products, introduction of self retention in aids, under Dallinger, 1996, an increase in these two self retentions among hums and at the same time the introduction of the health certificate fee. What was possible at the time cannot now be absolutely pomped. However, at that time – and this is a difference – reforms never occurred. There was a lack of money, the health insurance companies came to you. You recruited more money from the patients. That's how it was very easy. Now it's different. Once again back to financial compensation, management: SPÖ City Councillor Rieder. This is something that needs to be clarified in all sobriety. The visual remedy. Of course, it would be a pleasure if you shouldn't have touched this. Just, what is the current legal situation? – If you take advantage of the health insurance, i.e. the famous health insurance glasses, and do not consume any more, then you pay a self-retain of €23. If you are not right and you can buy a pair of glasses privately, then less this 23 € self retention is paid a health insurance allowance, which is up to four dioptrias at 3 € and from four to eight dioptrias at 5 to 7 €. So that really can't be presented as you do. That's the legal situation. For contact lenses, there has only been a grant now if they were medically indicated. What does the present draft do? – The benefits will not change, the grants from €3 to €8 will fall, for example. However, those persons who do not pay a prescription fee are excluded from this removal, they continue to receive the grant, as well as children and severely impaired people. Only so that here the truth is given the honor and the real conditions are presented. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We shall now proceed to the present draft. It is due to the persistence of the liberal negotiators, especially Klubobmann Scheibner, that there has been decisive improvement. The increase in health insurance contributions is limited – this is a very good success – and the prescription fee is gone. There's also a clarification. You know, of course, that since 1983 the recipe fee has been adjusted annually, and the 10 cents you apostrophize as an increase – and so to speak, because of better knowledge occasionally appears in the media – are not an increase, that is the annual adjustment. The increase in the prescription fee fell, we negotiated it away. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The hospital fee. The outcome of the negotiations has already proved to be very reasonable, because pioneers Carinthia, but now also the Styria and Burgenland have already made it clear that they will not increase hospital costs. I ask for this once again – I hope my Lower Austrian colleagues will give me the right – also for Lower Austria. There's air in there. If one refuses to draw in facilities that already exist outside, one saves money. And as long as – I say here too – the Mistelbach Hospital finds money, for example, and buys a niche from the 30 000 S cultural budget, in line with the desire of the population, even under protest of the population, it will not be possible for the population to feel that a hospital cost increase is only somehow envisaged. Summary: The objections you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, are not valid. Their behaviour on this question is not coherent, alternative concepts have completely missed. This reform is necessary, with the measures taken, to ensure that short-term financial viability is available, but it also guarantees that the structures and therefore financial viability will be improved in the medium term. It is also socially acceptable – thanks to the persistence of the liberal negotiators in particular. The government had a difficult job to do, it managed them perfectly.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10941	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e10960	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! It looks bad in the health care sector in Austria if you need to send a urgent question to your minister today about health policy. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is for your instruction!]] Not only, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rasinger's matte speech, but also the presence at the government's seats shows, in fact, how "necessary" – under quotation marks – this question was, ladies and gentlemen – and this is right, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now we're waiting for what you're bringing! You don't have a big presence either! For us, health is very urgent! You are still baffling whether or not Mr Gusenbauer was there! Maybe it was a doppelganger!]] Five years of EIA and FPÖ health policy have led to chaos, standstill, stress and great uncertainty, Mr Scheibner, Mr Rasinger, among the people. The choir of the jublers on the government side can't hide that either. Mrs Rosenkranz spoke about the fact that something has been completed or packed. Ladies and gentlemen! You know only too well, here in Parliament such things will be decided and such things will have to be decided and not somewhere in the silent chamber. This is what the SPÖ has done, and I am proud to be with a party, ladies and gentlemen, where this can sometimes be corrected afterwards. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What about Häupl, with Mr Rieder?]] With you, Mr Molterer, this seems to be a little different. Here, the great discipline seems to be in the foreground that your colleagues must take this into account. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Disciplinary, or what does that mean? Does that mean SPÖ is disciplineless? Mr. Landeshupmann Häupl has been disavowed!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Molterer! Nowhere is it so clear that you have left the fundamental consensus of solidarity as in health policy. You write in your urgent request, ladies and gentlemen: “Where, of course, sick people expect their subjective fears and concerns to be taken seriously.” – As far as the harbinger in your urgent request is concerned. Your real policy is that you will decide to retain and reduce the benefits of sick people and thus strengthen people's fears and concerns, Mr Scheibner, that future funding will take place instead of solidary financing in health care. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where?]] Mr Scheibner. The beginning is made at the glasses, you can't deny that. [[Abg. Scheibner: Stop it!]] The first step is taken. Mr Scheibner, it is an obligation to do so, and if you still look with your head and feel sorry, Mr. Scheibner, and so do, Mr. Scheibner and Mr. Rasinger, I have to say that there are, of course, great consequences of a reduction in performance, especially in the eyeglasses. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what I really look like!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: They wanted to increase contributions to a much higher degree! We don't want that!]] Of course, to a large extent. I know you're not so affected. Mr Scheibner. The bifocal glasses will cost 93,77 € more in the future, contact lenses will cost 191 € more, single-strength glasses plastic will cost 89 € more. And that's not the end, my colleague. You have not listened, Mr Molterer, that seems somehow obvious to you that you are not reading this. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Why did you fall into the back of the head?]] – Yes, Mr Häupl is interested in me in this regard only peripherally. [[Abg. Neudeck: He distances himself!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That won't do well!]] Finally: It is not in Vienna's Landtag, but it is decided here, ladies and gentlemen, so that it is clear! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – It may be, but if you do, ladies and gentlemen, that is all right. The fact is that further reductions in performance will follow. I understand, Mr Rasinger, that you are no longer able to hear the word 'burden', because in this word you are completely elucidating people's concern, but in the people there is a problem over ever-new burdens in this area. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you say that at your party meeting?]] Mr Rasinger! Wrongly defined with such beautiful words remains wrong, you cannot actually get away with it, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe you should also say this: People are developing an incredibly good sensorium in this area. You understand that there is something about it, and they judge this policy, your policy as well. I am presenting to you, Mr Scheibner, a survey yesterday that 61 percent think the policy of the ÖVP and FPÖ is bad and you are not making a good policy. And that is only too understandable if you look at this health package more closely. Of course, people know exactly what you are talking about, and in 2006 they will give you the assessment in the form that you will be released from government responsibility and installed a new government. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is always true that one can say that the opposition is criticised because it is their task to criticize. [[Abg. Scheibner: The task should be to share responsibility, Mr. Cot!]] But it is not just the evil opposition, Mr Scheibner. In the media too, this – in quotation marks – “health reform” is critically appreciated. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's okay!]] This is where the “Economic Sheet” writes: ‘Reform at the expense of the eyeglasses’, the ‘Small Newspaper’: ‘Health: Not only for the glasses wearers is the look wrong” and the overhammer: “The Minister of Health is dizzying over the election”. – This is the last consequence of this health reform. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's emergency on health policy has clearly shown: They will go into the history of this Republic as those parties that have permanently damaged the health system that have left basic consensus in the Second Republic. This way, ladies and gentlemen, you have to go yourself, we will not go this way with you. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11196	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Desirable time: 6 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11214	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very grateful to Mr Rasinger for having tabled this urgent question together with Mr Rosenkranz, because I believe that we need to talk about this matter urgently, about an issue that interests everyone. I personally believe that an opposition party also has the duty to engage in such an important question, rather than just going ahead and to introduce itself with issues such as stress, standstill, uncertainty. You do not work with ideas and suggestions, but your only instrument is the fear-circumstance, and we reject that. That's not a policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darabos.]] If you want to know how to do health policy in other countries, look at the German scene! There is a government of red and green, which does not deal with everything because the subject is complex. There is at least the opposition so far that it works hard to bring in ideas that it makes proposals. Where are you, where are your proposals to this day? – Except for fear. [[Abg. May. Darabos: maximum contribution base!]] These are things that we cannot take note of. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! The health reform, as I think, is a quantum leap. After a long delay and after many preventions, it has finally succeeded. What's the matter now? – There are new controls, especially in the field of hospitalization, particularly important for countries and especially for municipalities. That's where the cost explodes. Something has to be done here. Better communication, not the burden, but a significant financial measure, which is simply necessary, because what is good also costs money. Our policy is good, and that is why we can also say that we can demand something. As you are talking about the glasses, I have to say, Mr. Lackner: The share of costs in the rest of the sector is not available here at all! This has already been abolished in the 1980s! There is only one cost grant, and it usually accounts for less than 20 percent of all glasses administered in Austria! – Ergo therefore this correction is acceptable because children are excluded because of the lack of vision and compensation. They still get the performance! – and the rest will be able to afford it. [[Abg. Neighbors: Yes, hundreds of euros will be able to afford a pensioner safely!]] We simply have to say that everything cannot be paid, and that is why regulations are crucial here. This is the result of an objective assessment. I think we have a lack of awareness of costs; we have to say that quite clearly once. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Who is “we”?]] Who of the citizens – who of the citizens? – Do we know that today we are giving medicines in the order of €2.5 billion? Who, please, is concerned that all the studies tell us that more than a third of the drugs are not consumed? Now I'm not so presumptuous to say that everything should be consumed – it's not going on for many reasons – but if we could save half of these non-consumed drugs, it would be €400 million. . Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian Parliament may well discuss this! This is an issue for the responsibilities! You can talk about this very well! Therefore, a valorization of €4.35 to €4.45 for the recipe fees, please, not an attack, but a development that is reasonable. Whoever does not have the courage to manage clearly and carry responsibility, does not make politics, but only does it insecure – and we reject that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Second. – Mrs. Federal Minister! I am glad that we are taking a number of measures in the field of health, because I personally believe that self-responsibility is still very crucial. It's not without personal help! If the citizens are asked and invited here, I think that this is innovative, and I believe that we should all think about how we can strengthen this process in order to make it easier for us to cope with the costs as a whole. This is an example for society as a whole, for citizenship, and of course – and I think so beyond Austria – for all the other countries that do not cope with the costs as we do! Why? – Because the offers are getting better every year because life expectancy is God’s thanks and because each one of us knows that in the last decade of life one simply has the highest effort in terms of medical and medical care. Thank God we can afford it to ourselves, and I wish everyone – everyone! – that he also receives these benefits if he needs them. We are making politics in a country in which no one is excluded due to his age or his social or personal situation. This is the quality of these measures, of this policy, and we do not need to be ashamed of that – we can certainly show that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, please: Why Come You don't come here and transport a little bit of joy, Mr. Lackner? – MedAustron MedAustron, the largest research project ever in Austria, has been landed! An international investor is due to the fact that the Republic and the State of Lower Austria have declared themselves ready to invest enormously, went to Vienna's Neustadt and has planned to build this research centre there. Just as things now lie, it will also be built. In this way, we can not only keep value creation in this country – that would be far too little – but we can also create hundreds of new, high-quality jobs, so that we can help thousands of sick and seriously ill people in our own country, in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We get an installation, a facility, of which there are only three in Europe! – That is reason for joy, and that is why I think we need to talk about these issues. That is why I am glad that this urgent request was made that we could tell you – since you do not seem to want to see it yourself.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11351	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Desirable time: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11369	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! When I look into the ranks of the government parties in this way, I already have the question: What was the motive for submitting this urgent request? – The presumption that another critical issue should not be dealt with here for you is not far off. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why do I say that? – What I have now heard from the government parties was nothing new – that is, we hear the same thing again today, and the woman minister probably remains nothing but to answer the same again. [[Abg. Neudeck: For you!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Otherwise you say again that you have too little time to discuss so important things!]] No, no, no, You should take advantage of the time when something else is to move! [[Abg. Scheibner: If you're right!]] – That is over, that will be decided by you now! [[Abg. Scheibner: Why? It is decided when it is in Parliament!]] Could I talk calmly? [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Her contribution has nothing to do with health, but only with disorder. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] When Sunday's speeches are held on a Wednesday, it does not deny a certain pikanery. What Rasinger told us today needs to be corrected in front of the audience – spectators or listeners. It is totally untrue – and I also think it is unfrozen – what he says, namely that the opposition would work to reduce excellent health benefits, close hospitals, rationalise and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No one said that!]] I tell you, Mr Rasinger, that years ago we drew attention to the financing needs of our health system. But what have we got to answer, including from you, also from the Federal Government? – It would not be possible at all to change something about the financial system of the cash registers! We would have preferred to take sand out of the gearbox and put in place savings measures that would then bring new money. It was only when the Federal Government insisted that it could not enforce its savings measures and resist countries and – secondly – that it took years for savings to take action, that it did what it initially rejected, namely to create sources of funding – but not socially fair, not necessarily acceptable to health reform, but – above all, I say, not exclusively – at the expense of the lower and middle income levels. - That's it! Everyone who reads studies knows that we are already third in the world as far as the private share of total health costs is concerned; I have said that several times. When I hear: We don't want to close 30, 40, 50 hospitals!, then I wonder: Who, if not you, who, if not the government, has said that Austria has 16 000 single beds too much, you want to come to an EU cut that is about 16,000 below? - Now I hear from you: We never want the EU cut because it's bad! – I used to say that: The cut is not always the optimum you want to achieve! – But you shouldn’t turn on your heel until it’s as thin as a leaf of jause paper! That can't be! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is unfair, especially when it is linked to accusations. We have said that structural reforms are necessary. But we must ask: Are these structural reforms binding on the burden package for the population? – I take just one example, Mr Rasinger: the hospital cost contribution. Is that reasonable as a source of revenue linked to what I want? – Everyone says that in hospitals, a number of reforms could happen without quality losses, making hospitals more efficient, secure and better. Now I give the countries the opportunity to open up a source of funding by saying: When people lie in the hospital, I win something! But I don't want to, I want to stop that! - Is that wise? Is it wise, Mrs. Federal Minister – you originally wanted something else: They wanted uniform federal arrangements – if hospital charges are now being cut into the responsibility of the countries? One do it, the other don't do it, another half: Is this uniform planning? Trans-regional planning is not guaranteed at all, they are not! They wanted – I wanted to do that too – a serious federal demand collection: What do the people need in modern, targeted and meaningful services? We wanted to make this service plan beyond the country's borders, over regionally. But what do you do now? – Nine platforms that stop at the borders of the country, and cross-regional planning remains a matter of voluntaryness, reason. But I'm telling you: In Article 15a agreements – well-known to members of the government – one has not always had the best experience. I'm just telling you one example: When the Federation negotiated with the countries and those concerned the Austrian Hospital Plan, which priorities must be set, where beds might have been relocated, I drove to Tyrol with any court council of the state government on the train. He said: We're not stupid about putting that into practice, converting expensive cots into cheaper, deficient care beds! – These are 15a agreements that remain paper. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am afraid that you have had to endure a defeat – I am now very friendly – that makes it difficult for you to implement the good approaches in some punctuations. They cement the division between the settled and the stationary area, instead of lifting it by even standing in the platform, one has a hospital, stationary care and a supply area with the lowered, and these are different responsibilities, different voting rights. To overcome this, you need a coordination area. I think it's too complicated to do something about it. You know, there is another way – just because you say there are no proposals from us. Our proposals – a little more courageous and less bold – to raise the maximum contribution limit would, I say, affect the population by 10 per cent – only 10 per cent, and these are the top earners. Of these, only 17 percent would be self-employed, only 2 percent pensioners, only 1 percent workers and – another redistributive effect – 84 percent would be men because better earnings, and only 16 percent women. But that's not in question, that's your clientele! It would meet with saying and writing 6 € per month – people who earn over 4,000 € per month. 6 € – and none of the tax packages on the disfavor of the population should have been voted here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The lamp here at the speaker's coil is already red. – I think you don’t have to see red, but it has been denied a very great opportunity to finance cash in a sustainable way – because you don’t do that – and make health reforms that bring something to everyone – from us also the Federal Government, but above all the patients. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11504	Mr Dr. Rasinger spoke on an actual correction. I remind him of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, of the fact that it is true that there are facts. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11525	Mr Greenewald said that I should have said that there is no need to change the financing of health insurance funds. The fact is, I never claimed anything like it!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11555	The next speaker is Mr Lichtenegger. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11574	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am not in favour of distinguishing between good and evil, between good and bad policy, I believe it is our duty to set the course here in this House, in this case for the health system, so that it remains accessible to all of us, to continue to offer high quality and to continue to be manageable. The next task we have is to bring this information to the public and to transport it accordingly. An information or a message, as you say, to the public, for example: Go You once a year for a precautionary examination! We could try to relieve the health system in the long term. All of us here are examples of our fellow citizens, and we should also give them an understanding. We should all help to ensure that prevention in the health awareness of the Austrians is also given the appropriate place. Mr Lackner said that most people were not satisfied with this policy of government. It is fair to say, however, that most people are not particularly satisfied with the opposition policy. Why is that so? – Because you are constantly trying to suggest that the opposition would never increase anything, everything would leave as it is, everything would get better by itself, and the government parties were the bad ones. For example, they try to explain to us again and again that we are so angry because we have increased the recipe fee by 10 cents. But if you look at the text of the law in 1983, you can read in it: Dynamicisation of indicative figures. – In other words, in 1983 – and there you were making the laws – it has already been decided, even in a wise way, that this will be dynamically increased by itself each year. The tobacco tax, for example: 18 cents more. This is a reasonable control process, I believe, and has nothing to do with the fact that one wants to take the Trafikants into question here. It is not true that the Trafikanans will now suffer an economic breakdown and that the smugglers will live up. The traffickers already achieve a large part of their income from tobacco products, but they also sell other things, you have to see, and the increase by 18 cents, I think, is really a reasonable measure, and we stand for that too. If you say that the increases in the contribution of 0.05 percent for the hospitals are a further burden that is not necessary, then you have to reply: This is a temporary measure, and every country that tries to implement structural savings, which also bring quality assurance and security, and save a total volume of €300 million, will not have to increase these contributions either. Kärnten has already reported, Burgenland has already reported, Styria has already reported. These are quite good developments in the form of not only increasing contributions, but also trying to achieve something reasonable. They say: The recipe fees have already been increased again! – It must also be seen, however, that in 1999 there were €38 million more revenue from recipe fees than in 1997. In comparison, for example, the increase from 2001 to 2002: It was only € 4.7 million. You have to see that too! [[Abg. Gradwelt: The increase?]] It's about what's taken more. Go to the glasses discussion. – I have looked at how this is handled in Germany. There the Social Democrats are the leading forces. I do not want to say that if you had the responsibility here, you would do the same, but I do, because you always accuse us of social hardship, only indicate what social-democratic policy can look like. [[towards SPÖ]] In Germany, for example, there is the disappearance of the benefit claim for glasses. There's only more to it until the 18th. Year of life and with severe visual impairment. However, we also have people who are entitled to benefits who are exempt from the prescription fee and who are socially in need and who have less income. There is no such thing as that in Germany! In addition, a 10 percent share of prescription fees will be cancelled, at least € 5 and a maximum of € 10. What does that mean? – If someone needs a lot of drugs, he has to catch at least €10 each time, because there are medicines that cost more than €100. As a result, the 10-percent share is much higher. We have 4,45 €. Or: For example, there is an increase of €10 per hospital day in Germany, a maximum of 28 days, the same as with us. This makes a total of € 280. That's the maximum. We have 7,98 €. That's a maximum of € 223. That means, with us it's €56 less in the month. You can save yourself a lot. Thus, your social “warm” policy, as you explain to us, can try to look as well. – I think our alternative is much better.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11628	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11647	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grünewald asked about the motive of this urgent question, and I believe that this is a legitimate question of Mr Grünewald. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Mr President, I should like to thank Obviously, your hard questions to the Federal Minister have led to the fact that your ranks are very loosely occupied. Mr Donabauer! It is your question with the “knollharden” questions by Dr. Rasinger to the Federal Minister! – Mr Donabauer asked for a really serious discussion, but then he left the hall and has not been seen since then. – So much about the seriousness of your urgent request here and today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it would be worth the effort to deal with this and to ask the question: What actually marks the health policy of this Federal Government under the responsibility of Mrs Rauch-Kallat? Everyone knows what health policy has been doing in recent years. In my opinion – and commentators from many newspapers confirm this – there has always been health policy work, lots of actionism and PR. Mrs. Federal Minister! For example, there has been this really embarrassing “internal-swine-hound action” by you. That was one of your contributions to health policy. Furthermore, there has been a proposal on a health passport that you have referred to as – I quote you – ‘megaffentittengiil’. This is obviously your access to health policy! Mrs. Federal Minister! I can tell you: You have the laughter on your side with all these PR activities and the activism you start! [[Abg. Neudeck: Smile is healthy!]] The young people are talking about what the minister says, and she is not taken seriously. People have other concerns, ladies and gentlemen. There is now in Vienna – and you come from Vienna – also a joke about you: There is already gratifying as the next action and activity will be called by you, and there is the proposal: Let's call them: “Without smoke, too!” – But that might be a little misunderstanding. [[Federal Minister of Smoking Call: This is old! That's what my students said 30 years ago!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You're really – and you won't be able to talk that away with commercials! – Responsible for 44 loads in this country, which have mainly affected sick people! I'm remembering what happened before your time: Ambulance fees, accident pension taxes, a long-term chaos around the introduction of the chip card, higher self-retaining for healing, a reduction in sickness benefit and health insurance. Therefore, Mrs. Federal Minister, it is not surprising that, as we know from an IMAS study, 80 percent of all Austrians indicate that it is their greatest fear of the future that this health system will collapse. Mrs. Federal Minister, you bear the responsibility for the fact that most people in Austria really have to worry about this health system, because your policy is clearly heading towards two-class medicine, and therefore it is only understandable that there is no confidence in your policy and, in fact, no confidence in your proposals on health policy. Many people really feel every day that you are going the way to the two-class medicine, that the loads are getting bigger and bigger and that the pressure on you is increasing. Many feel that it is only a matter of power policy, whether it is the main association of social security institutions or your proposals concerning the health agency. The distribution you are doing is an unfair one, and that is why we are concerned with ensuring that the health system is put on a good financial basis. We politicians must make the decision who makes the contribution, and social democracy says – unlike this black and blue government – that those who have more should also contribute more. We are in favour of solidarity, and not of funding, where the sick and the poor are asked to come to the cash register, because this is the way to the two-class medicine, which we massively reject. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why we presented alternatives. Their proposals are, in fact, rejected by all experts, for example, as regards the subsidies to the visual aids. I suppose you also know the protests of the ophthalmologists. These too say that this proposal is definitely a serious social injustice! I would like to ask you to take note of this, too! We say there should be solidarity funding. Let us increase the maximum contribution base, which brings €90 million and does not burden the people who are poor and sick. I can assure you: Social democracy will, by all democratic means available to it, prevent your health policy on the way to the two-class medicine!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11717	Mrs Riener is now speaking. Your preferred speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11736	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Bures, if you say: “Without smoke, too!” I can only reply: It's not possible without a smoke-callat! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If the World Health Organization defines health as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not only as the freedom of disease and disease, I can only say: For our Minister of Health Maria Rauch-Kallat and the Federal Government under Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, this attitude is the basis of health policy. That is why both are always talking about health insurance instead of health insurance. This approach also includes the field of health care, which has been neglected so far. Appropriate measures in terms of nutrition, exercise to prevent cardiovascular diseases, the new health examinations, the health passports, but also the very important mental or mental health care to me – as you know. The advertising spots of the Federal Ministry and the Health Austria Fund, which have been on the radio for some time, are intended to stimulate reflection and motivate people themselves to take responsibility for their well-being. In the sense of a holistic system, overall consideration of the structures is urgently needed in the health system. That is why I believe that the creation of the federal agencies with the health platforms in the countries is essential. Why? – As a systemically trained psychotherapist, I am well aware of the interaction of actors in a system. An organization with its subsystems can be viewed as a spider network: Wherever a spider net is moved, it subsequently moves the entire web. This means to the health system that, when changes are made somewhere, the entire network is affected, and as a health network, you should see the health system. An example of the psychiatry or the psychosocial sector: If the number of psychia drives is reduced, then targeted extramural supply must be built up. It is also often necessary to provide regional stationary services to better integrate the social environment. That this is in the sense of the patients – and in this area we have it to do with patients who do not see everything as help and whose voluntaryness is not always given – understands itself. It must therefore be taken for granted that the financial operators and the service providers sit at a table. The aim of this partnership is to take reasonable, balanced measures that are tailored to the needs of patients. This also includes the repeatedly addressed interface management. The motto must be: As stationary as necessary, as ambulant as possible. The special challenge for system changes is that one cannot immediately record visible successes. But an efficiency increase in the health system in terms of quality assurance and damp cost development serves us all, in the sense of health care, but definitely every patient and every patient. If you, Dr. Grünewald, say that it is not always clear in what direction – in relation to Mr Rasinger – the ÖVP or the government is going, I would like to tell you: It is also not always easy to decide what short-term measures to take to support the long-term objective. We are concerned with the long-term goal, and for as big a system change as the health reform, we need a high sense of responsibility and a large portion of courage. Prove, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that you have responsibility and courage! Carriers This is a necessary health reform! Our Minister of Health Maria Rauch-Kallat and the Federal Government together with the countries show with this reform that they have this courage and responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11799	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. His welcome time is 7 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11829	Ladies and gentlemen! I note that the tension in the sector of the ÖVP, but also in the FPÖ, is increasing. You want to hear answers to your urgent desire here. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But not from you!]] It does not bother me at all if we discuss very carefully about different positions in the health sector. Mr Rasinger, in question 10 of your urgent question However, it is: What would be the consequences of a failure of health reform for the individual patient and the countries? – Do you know what you asked for? The Federal Minister would be busy until tomorrow if she had to tell you how this would have affected the individual patient if that had not been done! – You can also ask questions from behind, which cannot actually produce answers! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] Mr Rasinger! You know exactly why you asked the urgent question. The only urgent thing to do was to urgently stop the urgent request of the Greens to political pensions! We will discuss this tomorrow, no question. – The point is: It would have been useful to do this before. The second point is: It would have been useful if one could also have addressed the question to you, why all those Members here are voting in favour of extending the regime for political pensions which are not at all affected. – The system has been abolished. Was it abolished because it wasn't good? That's what I assume, because otherwise, you can't do something. That is why, however, younger Members still have to stand up for something, as far as they themselves are concerned, and they are convinced that it is not good. Let's go on the subject. I would also like to take part in Mr Rasinger's academic reading. First of all, I come to the comments made by Mrs Riener, my immediate predecessor, who has tried to present the system of health care as a spider network. She said that's an organization that works like a spider net. Do you know, Mrs Riener, what you said? – We have so far had an organization in the health field, which – I give you completely right, and you write it – has failed to a large extent in their inefficiencies or parallel structures. If there's a failure, because that's how bad the system didn't work. However, it has not been efficient and it is not, in any case, that one sector is responsible for social security and that the hospital sector is responsible for the countries or the local authorities. What are you doing? – It would have been to ask why social security does not take responsibility for everything, if it were in the stationary In fact, the area is already making very substantial payments. Why not go the way to hand over the responsibility to one, namely the current main financier, in the field of health? In this way, another main association could be created, which together with the federal level, namely the Minister of Health and the Minister of Health, would have quite different ways of working with the local authorities than with the newly created structure. Now, social security continues to be responsible for the established area, it has not changed, and the local authorities are still responsible for the hospitals. In addition, there is still a structure of social security at the federal level, called the main association, which you have recoloured, which is supposed to take over such a thing as a federal responsibility for the health insurance companies. You are now creating a new federal agency, which in turn is composed of the same disparities and different persons responsible for each other as before, namely from country managers, social security funds and so on. Mrs. Riener, to your picture of the spider network: What you have done with this reform is actually to give in to the health system in Austria. You have created a cosmopolitan health system by laying a structure over the others. I'm already with my colleague Rasinger: There are other criteria, if he were serious, Mr Rasinger! If you take seriously the criticism of all those who have to do with this area, such as from the Federal Chamber of Commerce – and I do not mean just the health economists, who always take the bill immediately – then listen to them! They all say: These federal agencies and country agencies are only giving rise to an additional bureaucratic structure, which cannot change and will not change any of the main problems - including that expressed by colleagues Rasinger in the urgent question - regarding the problem of different responsibilities. The only one who has lost in this so-called reform – I have mentioned it repeatedly, and that has now been seen in the negotiations – is the Federal Minister. That's a problem! That's how we approach things. I say: I am sorry if this is a black, red, blue or green Minister of Health, but it is really about improving the efficiency of health care and creating something that deserves the name reform and brings something forward. - But you didn't do that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Last point: In connection with exploiting potential, I come back to the picture that was drawn today in the morning journal. It has been reported what is happening in the ophthalmologists: Hundreds of them storm the ophthalmologists and want an appointment. [[Abg. May. Controller: But you don't get it!]] You don't get it, my colleague. They don't get it as before, because the ophthalmologists in Vienna wait a very long time. Completely right! In this way, we are dealing with the subject, that there are already de facto indirect – as I would like to call it – rationalizations in the health field, not only when it concerns the ophthalmologists, about which we need to think very carefully. Secondly, people clearly perceive what you consider to be progress in a very different way. They feel directly affected, and of course they want to get something for themselves. Use potentials: I remember you trying to reduce the prescription fee for generics. What was the answer of a large generic producer? He offered to replace the prescription fee. – Silence of the Minister of Health! What would I do? Good hint: I'll go to the generic producers and say, Show me your books, because there are obviously the margins for several people to be too high! – I don’t understand this and can only assume that no one in the generic producers wants to look into the books and check their price margins. It can't be!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11894	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is now speaking. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e11912	Ladies and gentlemen! From the opposition we have repeatedly been confronted with the question of the motive of our urgent request. I don't understand. Otherwise, the representatives of the opposition are constantly excited that they have too few opportunities to talk about important issues. [[Abg. Oillinger: We like to discuss with you!]] Now you have the opportunity to talk about important issues, and now you are not right again! [[Abg. Oillinger: Well, but you can...! You don't have to call it urgent!]] It is really interesting that Mr Green Forest has already said that it is a decided thing. – That’s not true at all! This is interesting: If it is decided in the government, it has already been decided for him. That's not true: The matter comes first to committee and then to plenary in December. – So somewhere I have the impression that you no longer take yourself seriously, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! [[Abg. No, you don't take yourself seriously!]] To Mr Lackner I would like to say the following: He claimed here that “in the silent chamber” these agreements would have come about. – That’s total imagination! Mr Häupl has agreed to this agreement within the framework of the financial compensation. Also Mr. Klubobmann and SPÖ-Obmann Gusenbauer were there during the conversation – he could no longer remember, after a startling second, that he had forgotten that he was there. But nothing happened in the silent chamber, but these were official negotiations! You just don't want to know anything about it now, because you just want to get rid of this agreement. Mr Oellinger, I would also like to comment on your comments. What you want is really unrealistic. [[Abg. Oils: You're welcome!]] They really want to take away from the countries the carriers of hospitals. [[Abg. Oils: No, not at all!]] Well, of course you do! – A bit realistic must also be the opposition policy! Just as you imagine it, you can't do it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As early as 1995, the then Minister of Health – that was Mrs Krammer – said that a reform of the structure and funding of the entire health system had to take place immediately, unless it was to be negotiated, because expenditure dynamics had to be inhibited, cost awareness had to be strengthened, financial responsibility was highlighted, a national consensus to be achieved in connection with the reform of health care, and this should not be sacrificed to the political calculature or the desire for power. So that means that these problems were extremely relevant at the time, only: Unfortunately, no health reform has taken place, but there has been an increase in the recipe fee – from 35 S to 42 S at the time – and health insurance contributions have been increased, the health certificate fee has been introduced, and the social security contributions for works contracts and free service contracts have been introduced. That is why I do not blame you for the fact that the financing needs were already in place at the time, but I would suggest that you have so little understanding of this health reform today and that you are not willing to contribute to this national consensus, which your socialist minister has already called for, today, in view of such a difficult task. This means that the health reform has been very, very long pending, because the costs have increased enormously, because the existing resources have not been used optimally. From the urgent inquiry you can see: The high-tech plants we have in Austria exceed everything that exists in neighbouring countries. It all costs a lot of money. – That means that it is urgently necessary to finally implement this reform, which has been pending since 1995. That is exactly what we want to tackle right now. However, I would also like to draw attention to the positive aspects of the need for such a health reform, namely: Why are there these difficulties? – Mr Rasinger has already mentioned what is going on in medical progress today, and I would also like to talk about the fact that there are many more opportunities for older people today to be old and also healthy, or: to be sick and nevertheless to control the suffering, or also: to recognize a serious illness early on, to overcome it and then to be able to live on. I mean, all of this is huge progress for people who – thank God – are getting older and older, progress, but that costs a lot of money! In recent years, methods and therapies have been developed to treat the most severe forms of cancer through which people survive in such a way that they still have something of their future life. In other countries, for example in England, chemotherapy is no longer performed in people over 60 or only with Ach and Krach. With us, it is natural for everyone to receive the treatment they need. [[Abg. No, no, no! Not that way anymore! You have to see this more realistic with us too!]] There are today investigations – Mr Rasinger has already pointed out – through which diseases, early-stage tumours are recognized, and because of this, it is possible to immediately carry out treatments and to ensure great chances of survival for humans. This, of course, finds its rainfall in the financial field, and I also believe that if you discuss it objectively, it is clear to all people that it costs more to get older and to be healthy. Only: If you always act with your polemics, then people will be dissatisfied! [[Abg. Oillinger: We made proposals!]] But everyone in Austria who talks objectively says: Yes, I am ready to give up on, for example, the grant to the glasses of between €3 and €8, if on the other hand it is guaranteed that I really get my treatment in a serious case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] This health reform also involves a very large volume of savings: €500 million in savings will be achieved – and this will benefit the sick people or those who are at risk of a disease. Mr Rasinger has already said today that, as I believe, 10,000 knee operations are being carried out. You might remember: About seven or eight years ago, hip surgery was still at very high risk. Today: Ten thousand hip operations, and after six to seven weeks people are fully able to walk, can go back to work, or can also enjoy their free time. That's something! But years ago, a hip operation, as far as I can remember, cost about 150,000 s. I don't know what this is, but in this order of magnitude, the costs are likely to be. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: 9 000 €!]] – €9 000 costs it. This is a huge scale, and yet these operations, as has been said, are much more common today. I have heard Mrs Mandak say that what is being done is socially unfair. – Is it really socially unfair when measures are taken to ensure that everyone – and really everyone – receives the medically necessary treatments that they need in their case? – This accusation is really unfair, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Mandak: It is a difference whether you have a heart surgery or hearing damage or dental treatment! It's not going to be treated like that!]] At the end of my speech, I would like to mention a representative of the medical board who says that she is socially balanced and that the funding of medical care at the usual high level is ensured. . This should also encourage us to agree to this health reform, once it has come to Parliament, and above all to ensure that the health system is ensured over the years in such a way that everyone who needs treatment is treated well, as has been said.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12069	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12087	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Partik-Pablé! That we are talking about a health reform here in Parliament, that the discussion is being held in the committees, with the parliamentarians – that would be in itself the parliamentaryism that one would want, and so it would have been introduced. However, if we are presented with reforms which can be considered as anything else than reforms and which are still in the widest range of health care, Mrs Colleague, then you cannot accuse us that we are not ready to talk. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: But Brauner is for that!]] First of all, the government needs to get ready to talk to us if you want us to go with you. This should be said here at the beginning of my speech. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: The Häupl and the Frau Brauner are for this!]] Today's urgent question is probably only meant as a praise to the Federal Minister and to remove a urgent request from the Greens. Let's stay on the ground of reality. That's how it looks, and that's what it meant today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Mayor Häupl and Mrs. Brauner are for this!]] If you, Mrs Federal Minister, pay particular attention to the prevention in your answer to the question, you would offer “Fit for School” and create a special opportunity for the children to take something for their lives in their consciousness for the prevention and health prevention, then I ask you: So if you have called out the fitness and prevention through movement to national interest, why don't you involve the Minister of Education in this important area, which does not hold very much of these goals? You think you have to call out together with State Secretary Schweitzer “Fit for School” and, at the same time, you have to delete Federal Minister Gehrer’s school lessons in the field of gymnastics – and this, although she knows the relevant studies, such as the study “Klug and Fit” – which is known to you, and is also known to the Minister of Education – which was conducted in 65 000 children and adolescents aged 11 to 14 and which proves that physical performance has already deteriorated to an alarming extent, that a high proportion of reduced and weakened muscles are likely to cause disturbances in the joint muscle relationships and consequently leads to painful irritations, that there are already weaknesses in attitudes and damage, that the disease of the adult support and exercise apparatus is likely to occur and that the high cost of economic success is high. [[Abg. May. Controller: No, not for gymnastics!]] All of this is included in the study of the Ministry of Education, which was commissioned by the Ministry of Education and which is also known. The answer of the Minister for Education Gehrer: She deletes the school lessons for gymnastics. They shorten hours, which, in turn, are particularly useful in the non-binding exercise area for sport. I ask you, Mrs Rauch-Kallat: How is your cooperation in the government team? Do you not talk to each other, or do you not take mutual action? I think that these common objectives should also be objectives of the Minister of Education. As important as prevention is to stay as fit and healthy as possible and as old as possible, this “fit & healthy” does not solve the pressing problems in the Austrian health system. You should be aware of that, too. That's a drop on the hot stone! It is good, we like to take note of it, but it does not solve the problems that have been raised. For me, therefore, this is a representation between dream and reality. For the people in Austria who are concerned about the health system, I would say, already nightmare and reality, because we already have – and this is proven – €1.5 billion in health care burdens, and many of them already take advantage of them. We have a large number of people who are proven to be – and you too are aware of these investigations – very concerned about ensuring a solidaric and manageable health system. But what happens? – You do not fear, but, quite the contrary, you are talking about introducing 20 percent self retention and increasing hospital costs. – I do not want to do the story about the glasses again, which is known to you. This fear, which the people already have, that this health system will no longer be manageable in the future and will no longer be possible for many groups of the population, is to blame, the Federal Government is to blame, and we do not always let ourselves go to the point of saying that the opposition would make fear and panic. It is you, Mrs Federal Minister, with your policy that triggers this fear! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: You're scaring!]] We from the SPÖ say: Whoever deserves more, he should also contribute more to the health system. Not the sick can be punished for being sick! – This is our idea of a solidary health system, and that is exactly what we are entering into!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12198	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12218	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! On the question of what is particularly positive in Austria, the Austrians first mention the environmental situation. Second, we already have our health system. Thus, the lack of confidence by the Austrians in this very good system, as it was conjured up by the opposition today, cannot be the case at all! In order to keep this system as good and trust as it should continue to be, however, it is of course necessary to continually develop this system. I believe that the forthcoming health reform is the biggest step in the right direction in the last ten years. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today, much has already been said about the potential and actual advances, of what our medicine can accomplish and what is also very expensive. How can you deal with it? – You can either take more and more money into your hands – which, of course, needs to be exhausted from the citizen and the taxpayer before – or you can strive to make greater use of the opportunities for efficiency in particular. I am very happy that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken this path with this reform and is addressing the possible efficiencys that are obvious. It has been referred to as “double-trackness”, and I would like to explain the following areas in which these dual-tracks exist: In Tyrol – the systems are slightly different in all federal states – for example, we have a very efficient health care fund with on the one hand hospitals, for which the cost replacement they receive is covered, and on the other hand, a established area that the social security funds pay. This has led to the fact that for the social security of every patient who was additionally treated in the hospital, so to speak, he was a good patient because he did not incur any additional costs for social security. On the other hand, anyone who went to a resident doctor – even if he was provided with excellent and cheaper care there – was an additional payable patient, so to speak, worse patient. – With the new platforms, this will belong to the past. These areas can be better coordinated. On the other hand, we have expensive surgery facilities in hospitals and in the established area doctors who also afford to operate there for half a day, while in the hospitals the operation units are partially discontinued at 4 p.m. Is it not obvious that the established doctors will be able to rent into the hospital surgery and pay the cost of the staff and for the space and equipment rental for the surgery? Then the patient would not have to pay the expensive operating room in the hospital and the expensive operating room in the established area double his health insurance costs or even private additional benefits. All of this is taken into account and possible in the current concept, and I am sure that we will bring together huge savings without losing any quality for the patients. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: “That’s where I bet on it”!]] Mr Grünewald has called for the collapse of health care and these improvements in efficiency, namely that the country platforms will be back after the national borders in the future. However, he does not take into account that we already have functioning structures and units with detailed knowledge of the situations in the individual federal states, which a federal agency would have to build. An example: If we have a hospital in Reutte, which may be large from the population and given the hour of travel to Innsbruck, you can judge that from Vienna according to the key figures and say: There you have to close some units! – However, we are not only concerned with the savings effects, but in particular with maintaining quality throughout our country. It is therefore absolutely necessary to maintain, even in Reutte, which is occasionally completed by the snow from the Inntalfurche, a functioning all-round health care for the people living there. These plans and knowledge are already available in the countries. Additional giant agencies to get on with such obvious things, we can save ourselves. That too is a question of efficiency. The Federal Agency will allow for such cooperation and coordination. I assume that this vote must be strengthened not only between countries but also with neighbouring countries in the future. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Very briefly to the visual aids. I am grateful to the Federal Minister for the fact that she pointed out that in future the important precautionary examination in the field of eye-care as an incentive by the practical doctors would be provided. I think that's important. The eye is a window inside the body. Without regular examinations by the ophthalmologist, many diseases such as green star cannot be detected in time. Thank you very much for having this precautionary policy introduced for the first time throughout our Mrs. Federal Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12270	Mrs Haidlmayr's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12288	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out today that Mrs Krammer already had plans to make a health reform; Mrs Hostasch also had the opportunity to do so, and now Mrs Rauch-Kallat has the floor. This reform has not come about again, but it has been tried to turn on a few screws, but a reform, ladies and gentlemen, has not happened! On the contrary: One has now managed to blow this system up more by using even more agencies and weaving it even more. This has not been a reform. I think you should admit this: It's all right! For if it had been so easy to make a truly comprehensive reform, it would have been made in recent years. This has already failed the relevant ministers, and now the current Minister has failed. - That's it. But then you can be so honest as to say so and not to sell as something that is simple and simply not. Mrs. Minister! In the meantime, I also have a little idea of what captains you had to negotiate with, because I am also represented in smaller institutions. There are simply certain areas where the state seems to be in the state; there is a wall, there is nothing going through it, and you have failed on these walls too. I'm not going to blame you, but I just want to find out that it is. Let us all take note of this! Mr. Rasinger! I absolutely have to make an educational contribution now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They meant deaf people, but they said deaf. The term ‘tubstumm’ does not exist. If anyone's deaf, it doesn't mean he doesn't have a voice yet. The term ‘tubstumm’ is actually already deleted from the code. That means, deaf. Okay? - Great. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger nodds.]] That is what I wanted to put on, because the language is part of the culture and reflects how to deal with people who are deaf in that case. If you say that's a deaf brother, that's a different argument than if you say that's someone who's deaf. We simply have to think about this in this House, because we are ambassadors in other areas too. [[Abg. Rasinger: I have been working for the deaf today!]] - Great, for the deaf and not for the deaf. That's great. Mrs. Minister! What I wanted to say about this reform, which is not: It seems to have been necessary to discuss them today in the context of a urgent question, that is to say, in order to prevent a crisis of the Greens. However, this issue was so urgent for the EIA that at peak times exactly 21 of its 79 MEPs were sitting here. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Take a look at what's here with you at a urgent moment!]] One has to be aware of this “necessity” in one’s own urgency. I mean, it is really important to log this too, so that we can see that 20 percent of our own Members have not seen this need. [[Abg. Gahr: You counted wrong!]] President Khol looked very evil from the Bureau because everything was empty, but he couldn't catch up with people because the topic apparently doesn't interest anyone, otherwise they would have been there. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I just wanted to see this so that we can see how urgent it was for the government parties ÖVP and FPÖ to be. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: That was very urgent!]] That was necessary to have said it. [[Abg. Neudeck: There you can see how important the topic of health is to you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We will now be writing how many...!]] Mrs. Minister, you have repeatedly said that there must be an improvement in the interfaces in the future – interfaces between outpatient, stationary and once again outpatient. [[Federal Minister for Smoking: Getting the seam!]] Mrs. Minister! But we need more to do that. One has to consider how weekend care and night care look in the rural area, how the opening hours of the practical doctors are and what opportunities there are, for example, when a doctor is not there just because he is on education that the ambulance is still occupied by another doctor, namely, and people don't have to go somewhere else. There are very good models in Upper Austria. I think you should look at it. You might at least try to implement them throughout Austria. One area, Mrs Minister, which I would like to address briefly, is the field of mental diseases. We know that the number of mental diseases is increasing, but that the practical doctors are not ready to acknowledge until today that this is not their profession, but that there is a need for specialists to take over the treatment. I think the sooner someone who is mentally ill gets into the right hand of a specialist, the better he can get healthy. But there's a lot too much going on with the house doctors, without it bringing anything to the individual. There is much to be said, for example, that the granting of aid and relief is drastically reduced – and the year after year, not because the payments are reduced, but because these aids and reliefs simply disappear from the aid and remedy catalogue and thus have to be paid by the individual people themselves. Mrs Minister, this reform is not a reform! The costs shall be borne by the insured. I would have expected something else from a reform, but you failed. You also need to learn to deal with it. Others have gone that way too, now you're on it. What do you want to do?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12430	Next item is the report by Mr Wittmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12449	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! The following is already significant for these urgent ones – you have to repeat that again: If of 79 Members 21 are in the Chamber and if the clubman is missing the whole meeting of the applicant party, then this issue is not very urgent to him, I must say quite honestly. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I already explained why!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Maybe it's up to you that so few are there!]] [[Abg. Grossruck: Where's Mr. Gusenbauer?]] This actually shows the content and value of these urgents. If you ask yourself some questions that you like to hear again and again, then this is not necessarily a sign of very strong politics. I do not give great importance to the FPÖ in this circle, because it falls by the same time. If it does some resistance somewhere, it is only of very limited and temporary duration. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: These are banalities! That's so banal!]] You can get some papers, there's inside again: FPÖ fell again. – Mrs Partik-Pablé, you of the liberals have been logged out of this government team for a long time. You have only more honoured yourself by saying yes to all the proposals made by the ÖVP at some point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: When we fall by the way, you'll find Rieder and Häupl already!]] One thing is already significant: This is a departure from the traditional system of solidarity financing for our health care. There is a dam broken here, namely by the first attempt not to try to deal with this entire package of health funding in a solidary way, but to do so. This may be even argumentable with the glasses, but it breaks the first dam, because it will follow other performances because the system will not be cheaper. [[Abg. Steibl: This is a first step!]] There is no structural solution to this problem, but a short-term bridge of financing is being carried out with a single benefit. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: That's not true!]] That means you can play it until all the performances are out. This is not the meaning and purpose of a real health reform. If you look at what's going on with the main association, with your so-called reforms on sparing, I have to say: The main association has reached the same composition with 38 decision-makers, the main association needs 104 decision-makers in 2002. 104 to 38! That was the “reform ” for the cost-effective. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is precisely the same with the new agencies. It is quite clear that more agencies bring more administration and more bureaucracy. This is not a structural restructuring of this system. This is simply a shift and a shift to a discussion level, which in fact only makes proposals for proposals, but does not bring about any structural improvement and savings. If you look at the new government template as the main association, you can also see the evidence black on how undemocratic this government is: There are two representatives in the new main association for 800 insured persons in the notarial insurance scheme, and two representatives for 4 255 000 other insured persons. You can't talk about democratic rules anymore, because you're dealing with a band like this: You want us to play. What Expects You from the main association? – They use people there as you need them. One represents 800 people and receives two representatives in a democratically elected body, but those representing 4 255 000 insured receive only two representatives. What's that supposed to be? – That’s undemocratic! The removal of glasses financing is a burden policy, just as you do everything over and over again about stress policy. There are no reasonable approaches to the structural rehabilitation of this health system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They started a fundamental departure in the previous year. In fact, some of the decisions you make in the sports resort are reasonable preventive measures. But in the previous year, you increased your health insurance contribution by 0.1 percent. That means you punish the people who practice sports first. They punish them for having sports accidents. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The health insurance contribution must then be increased. Instead of saying that sport is promoted, it is punished. On the other hand, you say we make “Fit 4 Kids”. But that's just a drop on the hot stone. The “Fit 4 Kids” program meets about 100 students in the first phase, because one can no longer handle the existing resources and because the infrastructure is not provided. In the same breath, however, you take out gym hours by leaving that to the self-government of the schools. You know that there are 60 percent inactive, 60 percent inactive even in the school body are 60 percent inactive. This automatically removes the turn hours. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have us as co-compatriots immediately, if you say that a minimum number must be guaranteed. Why don't we do that? – The Federal Chancellor is supposed to want it, the FPÖ is supposed to want it, we from SPÖ want it in all cases, you also want it, only Mrs Gehrer, Federal Minister, does not want it. Why take such a step when you know that this is a disaster for public health? It is bad not to lead children to sports in good time and thus bring them to another risk group in the event of heart disease, bone suffering or joint pain. So, that means you're going the wrong way. They are trying to save this health system during subsequent care, but they are not trying to put in advance those preventive measures which would then save us costs in the course of the course. This was basically a bad emergency and is a wrong health policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12592	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12610	I will resume the negotiations on the XII Consultative Group. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Ikrath. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12632	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A fact: The national defence budget is €1 810 million for 2005. This is an increase of €70 million, is equal to 4 percent; 4 percent are a significant increase in this budget. That's not enough. We will continue to increase this budget again in 2006, by another €70 million. In the last four years, this Federal Minister and the Federal Government have managed to achieve what has unfortunately marked the national defense for 30 years, namely the principle that the national defence budget for life was too little and too much to die. This Federal Minister and the Federal Government have managed one thing – one would be to admit it to me as an economic person who so formulates in the entrepreneurial language – the turnaround. The Federal Minister has made the turnaround in the state defense and in the Austrian foreign security policy together with the Federal Government. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Why? – For more than 30 years, we had ministers of defence, who had not been put by SPÖ until the socialist government alone, but always either by the Freedom Party or by the ÖVP, although they always faced a Social Democratic Federal Chancellor and a Social Democratic Finance Minister. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: You can remember it?]] Therefore, every effort to strengthen the national defence was at the time an attempt that did not find a match there. That's a success! The turnaround is that we can at last move the relation of personnel to the effort we have to put up with in-depth effort and thus obtain investment funds for the force – investments that have always been far too short for a long time. If you're a military officer yourself like me, you know what that means for the force. Then you also know what to owe to this minister. That's why I'm saying: This is not just a good budget, it is an excellent budget. Although this day does not begin with an excellent budget, it is marked by it. Finally, let me say something: In the future, the proceeds from the sale of property will also benefit from a budget increase in national defence. This is something that will include a dynamic on the investment side of the budget, which is unique. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] I do not see colleagues Gaál now – but there he is! I know exactly that he will agree with me in his heart, even if he probably can't do it in words today. Thank you very much, Minister of State! I am pleased that we have opened up such a great perspective, but also beyond, for national defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12683	Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12702	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Ikrath, actually the message has arrived, and it would be quite possible to show a lot of sympathy for this budget if not the federal army so much at heart. [[Abg. May. Control: Good!]] This is a reason why we will reject this budget from the SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! I take Mr Ikrath's speech very seriously. He claimed here that Mr. Federal Minister, 0.75% of GDP was the turnaround for the army, was sufficient and solved all the problems. I wish you, Mr Federal Minister, with this 0.75% right in the future, quite good luck. You'll crack like the famous Kaisersemmel – like now! Now back to the years of Edlinger. 0.81% were too small, 0.75% were more than sufficient: This should be a lesson for us that, in your opinion, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, the army no longer needs! [[Abg. Murauer: 0.75 plus!]] As a reminder, Mr Scheibner: What do you say about 0.75%? You started with 0.79 percent of GDP. You said it was a disaster budget, something like that could never be there again. You were right! There's no more – it's much, much less! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Not just that, Minister of State! They also drag a backpack, which is not without 2.4 billion, but not Schilling, but Euro, is the presuppositions that the state defense has to bear over the next 10 years – and this with an annual budget of 1.8 billion! [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Yes, but...!]] I think that speaks for itself. Ladies and gentlemen! In reply to a question, the Federal Minister also said: In principle, the 2005 budget is already focused on the reform project of the Austrian Federal Army! That's interesting, Minister. If these 0.75% are already in principle geared to the reform project, you really do not expect to get the proposals of the Reform Commission to be financed. As far as the additional revenue, which we always hear from, which has already promised us scheibner and which we are now promised again, is concerned, there are concrete figures. The next year, 2005, you'll be expecting 44 million from barracks sales. The Minister then lacks only more than 956 million on the billion – a large part is already secured. This is how it goes, Mr Federal Minister, for example, with the planning posts for the kioP units. Also today, an egg dance around the “Battle Groups”. What's going to be Are you really doing it next week? What's going to be At this meeting, you will do the following at this conference: Photo appointment or coffee wrench? I can't imagine there will be any concrete statements. They had the opportunity to address this issue at the National Defence Committee and at a current hour. I asked you here from this speaker's desk, in the process of dealing with the Military Power Act. But you've been silent. And, Mr. Federal Minister, you have been silent again today. We have not received a reply from you about what you will do next week. Ladies and gentlemen! If it were not about such a serious matter as our national defense and how our soldiers are – there are no black, no red, no green and no blue, but only Austrian – then this budget would be laughing.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12777	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Kapeller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12795	Madam President. Highly esteemed Mr. Minister! High house! Since only the democratic rule of law can protect the inner and external peace and freedom of its citizens, there must be means and instruments to safeguard our rule of law, our Austria. An instrumentarium for this is our federal army. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order for our federal government to fulfil its legally determined tasks, it needs on the one hand the necessary budgetary or monetary means and on the other hand a political commitment to these structures. Both fulfil this government: on the one hand, carry out funds through a good, balanced army budget and on the other hand with a clear political commitment and a targeted reform for a future-oriented army. But in both areas, ladies and gentlemen, you operate total and frontal opposition. They reject the budget in the Chapter on the Interior as well as the budget in the chapter on Military Affairs. I do not understand that personally, but the internal and external security clearly also have a social dimension. Security is a prerequisite for the successful life of society in every form: for securing an economic location as well as for the gratification of crisis spots on our earth. Not all 43 million euros will be used for the tasks of the assistant stakes and for foreign operations, for KIOP units, not quite 57 million euros. This is €100 million of direct funding for our security, for the direct and direct security of people in Germany and abroad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, are extremely unsocial in rejecting this budget chapter. This, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, is actually unworthy of your party name. So it's true: You're ready to start – just don't know the direction! To say in accordance with this chapter in the military jargon: Comrades, have eight, right um, turn left – where to now?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12853	The next item is the speech by Mrs Pfeiffer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12871	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned several times today that there is €70 million more in the defense budget. This seems to be positive at first sight. I do not want to reduce your personal commitment, Mr Federal Minister, but this budget in relation to gross domestic product has been the least since the Black and Blue Government was in office. From 0.82 percent in 2000, it fell to 0.74 percent. That's very unfortunate. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Army Reform Commission has issued a recommendation on the conversion of the army to military forces, in particular for international peace operations. This was done under the title: If you don't have to fear war, don't be prepared for war. The Federal Government's focus therefore remains on international tasks such as participation in peacekeeping and humanitarian activities as well as conflict prevention. The structure of our federal army must therefore be adapted, the times have changed. This is seen by the fact that the planned barracks closures and the abolition of military commanders encounter bitter resistance from the people and also from the political leaders in the federal states. The economic existence of the communities affected by it and the people living there is at stake. Now on the sad issue of Eurofighter acquisition. Even if you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, are nervous: This acquisition is a huge burden on the budget of national defence. These Sri Lankan fighter planes are burdening the budget of the state defense. Over the years, the army budget is completely over-indebted instead of using this money for other, more useful things in the area of the federal army, in particular for the protection and security of the soldiers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Due to the enlargement of the EU, ladies and gentlemen, Austria suddenly has to stop guarding the Schengen external borders from the time of 2008 to 2010, and we therefore welcome the reduction of military service to 6 months as a step in the right direction. Since I myself live ten kilometres away from the Schengen border, I know how important this service is at the border. I would like to thank all those responsible, the soldiers, for their commitment to the service of the population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, Mr Federal Minister, I have to conclude by saying that you are facing the ruins of the years of Black-Blue's announcement policy with this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12926	Next, I shall grant Mr Magistrate's power. Longer the word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e12947	Madam President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague, it is really not how you describe it – despite the savings course! I believe that the Federal Minister has succeeded in creating a budget – after it was increased from 2002 to 2003 and from 2003 to 2004 – which is also now providing a corresponding budget. Before the ladies and gentlemen come out of the opposition here and talk about numbers – it is, I think, necessary to discuss the extent to which the share of GDP is higher or lower – they should once become aware of what tasks the Austrian federal army has to perform, because only then, I think, can they talk about numbers. Your problem is the following: You lack the principle of security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only when you put these on display can you come out here and talk about numbers. [[Abg. Gaál: 30 years of security policy!]] Another topic: I very much welcome the open debate on the rapid intervention group, which will also inform the public accordingly. A yes also to the Petersberg tasks, which are used as the basis for peacekeeping and peacekeeping efforts. I do not believe that the principles of Austrian neutrality policy must be changed in terms of neutrality, namely no participation in military alliances, no stationing of foreign troops in our country and no participation in wars. I believe that this is, in principle, so enshrined in these tasks. It is clear to me that the Greens have a bit of a problem and say that there is a lack of information regarding the Federal Minister and his troops. Only: It is bad if, during the Committee's budgetary deliberations, an incident occurs which cannot simply be taken away. That was, of course, a very big problem for the opposition. ==References====External links== October, when we conducted the budget consultations, the ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’ presented a two-sided report on the security and economic aspects of the Eurofighter. [[The speaker shall keep the two newspaper pages concerned up to date]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Read That's very interesting! The “Salzburger Nachrichten” are an independent newspaper, a good newspaper. It's certainly not a disadvantage if you get a little information about it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Individual freedom, which is so important to all of us, can only be guaranteed in conjunction with an extant security budget in the context of national defence – in another context, of course – both domestically and abroad. So, please agree to this budget. They do something good for the Austrian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13005	The next item is Mrs Schasching's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13024	Madam President. Federal Minister! Stand firm, ladies and gentlemen: After five years of black and blue, GDP is the lowest budget of all time for the army. [[Abg. Murauer: Do you really regret that, or is that just rhetorical?]] Whether I regret it or not, that's not the question. [[Abg. Murauer: The question is: What happens to this money?]] The fact is: The ÖVP/FPÖ government has promised to increase the budget, but it has come out that it is the lowest budget of all time. You have to answer that! All you have to do is answer it. To this so low budget comes the unnecessary purchase of the sintering fighter aircraft, called Eurofighter, which completely overdebted the army budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] How can you explain this to all those who are legitimately concerned about necessary procurements for the protection and safety of soldiers who should be carried out urgently? [[Abg. Murauer: Which procurements?]] For example, transporters, pioneer equipment, new combat suits, improvements of the AB 212 transport helicopters and so on and so on. [[Abg. Murauer: I'll get it!]] Mr Murauer, you know very well that there is a need for rethinking. [[Abg. Murauer: I don't know what you mean!]] But due to the purchase of fighter planes and many other things, it is unfortunately not possible to guarantee the safety of soldiers. We very much regret that from the SPÖ – although we also regret that there is still no multi-annual investment and procurement plan that we urgently call for and demand. Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the theme “Sport in the Army. ” General body training, basic sports training and fitness of young people are a general goal, and it is very positive to note when it is made. Only: Women like men in military service should also be able to participate as contract staff and to benefit from all military sports facilities. I would ask you to pay your attention to this if fitness and prevention through movement really want to be a major interest of this federal government, as we have just heard in the debate on the urgent request from the Minister for Health. So don't act halfheartedly, but let everyone take part in it! That's why I'm looking for quite specific, Minister of Defence. [[Abg. Murauer is at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Platter.]] Mr. Minister of Defence, I attach great importance to hearing that now too! [[Abg. Murauer is away from the government bank.]] They and all of us were very pleased that we had many Olympics, many medal carriers in Athens. The Heeressportszentrum is an important institution – a very important facility! – to ensure social security for our athletes in order to give them a good training environment. After all, 39 of 74 participants in Athens were members of the Federal Army, and after all, we had five medalists from the ranks of military sports facilities to celebrate. Federal Minister! They also celebrated them properly, have been photographed with them, that's all right, that's okay, just: I couldn't find a budget approach to the HSZ, and I would be very sorry if this important facility for our sport and for our athletes might be affected by a reduction. I don't assume it, but it's a fact that we don't have a budget approach. I would urgently ask that we put the figures on the table. I am really very, very glad that women athletes have been included in the HSZ since 1998, and one of our leading athletes, Judoc Claudia Heil, has also won a medal. All these athletes would have deserved a financial guarantee of this valuable facility and arrangement, and I therefore urgently urge them to be guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13136	Mr Murauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Mr deputies, you know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes of speaking time; first of all the points to be corrected, then the corrected one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13158	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs Schasching and other SPÖ speakers claimed here that no combat suits are available, that no transporters are being purchased and that no scatter protection vests are obtained. I'm correcting and correcting: In 2006, 16 000 combat suits will be purchased, 8 000 combat suits will be purchased in 2005, trucks will be purchased as transporters, and armored transport equipment will be purchased to the extent of 20 Dingo vehicles and splitter protection vests. I am trying to finally take note of this and better orientate myself, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13205	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for The last sentence was no actual correction! . I have already pointed out several times that we really are limited to the actual correction. The next item is the report by Mr Schöls. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13227	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to thank you at the beginning of my speech on this budget chapter. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] A thank you especially to the soldiers – Mr Klubobmann, you will be amazed, you will still come to the thanks; however, you are not – who are acting for us at home and abroad, for this Republic, and who are a business card for our Republic in the truest sense of the word when it comes to foreign operations they make under difficult conditions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, I would also like to thank all those present who, when they enter, often do not know that they are used in an assistant service and that they also provide valuable services. I would like to thank the Federal Minister, because as ÖAPBender, I am proud that Günther Platter is again in office as an ÖVP defense minister, who continues the tradition of ÖAPB Prader, Lichal, Fassleven. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] After the not very simple discussions about the German army reform, a social plan with trade unionists, with the social partners in the Ministry of Defence, has succeeded. It has succeeded, and Mr Fauland has addressed this, but I need to make a little bit of an intensification: Federal Minister! At the time of the coalition, when Mr Dallinger and Mr Dallinger, Minister of Defence, were in operation, there was an intolerable pension scheme for the soldiers of the time, because they were simply assigned to the matter. As a result, problems have now arisen in the course of the various pension reform discussions. – Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you for having been regulated for our soldiers and for our citizens affected by them. [[Abg. Neudeck: Thank you Wolfgang!]] And now the FSG and the Social Democrats are coming up with: I would like to thank Mr Pfeffer, Mr Kummerer and Mr Hagenhofer for the three Socialists who were in the Chamber during the period from 14.25 a.m. to 14.51 p.m. when we discussed the chapter on the defence of the state. [[Abg. Neudeck: Now you've shot three!]] – Mr Prehauser was still standing behind. [[Complementary of the Abg. Lentic.]] So three and a half socialists have found it worth being involved in this important issue. Now thanks to the SPÖ can also be given, because, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes I feel that you are afraid of our work and discussion during the commemorative year, because there is evidence that your commitment to the defence of the state and to military defence only comes when celebrations take place somewhere. Yesterday, a Member of the SPÖ said that he had the impression that we were in a bad valley. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: terrifying!]] You seem to have issued the day's order to defend a bad valley. But we live in the Republic of Austria, which is led by a good and responsible government and which is not a pity. Therefore: Switch the commanders so you can get a new day order, maybe it'll be better! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have no problem with this, because this budget, ladies and gentlemen, is a prerequisite for further responsible acquisition of equipment. If there are some complaints here, for example, that you have not been allowed to fly to Manching to see how effective the Eurofighters are, then I would advise the Lower Austrian mandaters, perhaps to go to Langenlebarn to look at how high and well equipped the Black Hawks are. I invite everyone who is interested and willing to drive, for example, to milk and look at the pioneer equipment there. I just hope you don't like Colleague Heinzl, who is subordinated to the police officer of St. Pölten, they don't know each other in the surrounding area of St. Pölten. – They are insulted by the fact that Mr Heinzl had this done yesterday in the ‘Kurier’. He says if he sends a city politician to the "huber farmers", he won't even find it. – If this is the appreciation the SPÖ has for public servants, I say: No, thank you, and wish the Minister of Defence with his department much success for further work.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13342	The next speaker was Mr Gradwelt. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13361	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Estimated colleague Schöls! I'm afraid this election speech will be yours on 1st and 2nd. Nor does December help much, because the facts speak against you, and I will mention some facts. If you've already spoken of invitations, I'll also give you an invitation: Federal Minister! Mr Schöls! I invite you, come to the western Upper Styria, there is the Flyer Horst Hinterstoisser – the site where the Eurofighter will be stationed in the future. Mr Schöls, when you speak from this point of view of the excellent things that the mandates have done, I say: Excellent things have been done by our soldiers! [[Abg. Did you not listen again?]] We have already thanked them, and we also thank them on. But, Mr Schöls, why do I invite you, together with the Federal Minister, to come to Tentweg? What did you tell us here in the house? – At 18 – no, at that time it was still more, but now 18 – Eurofighters are going to be exactly at this location in Tentweg 200, but what, 1,500 – 14 days later it was more than 2,000, and finally it was almost 10,000 – jobs secured. – Mr Murauer nodds, okay. Mr Murauer! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Dear colleague Schöls! Please show me a budget item in this budget for the chapter National Defense, by which one – a single one! – Technicians from this shipyard will be sent for training in the coming or next year, so that he can even work with the device that is flying here in 2007! There's no cent in there! What about the job security? Where are the lead times you need to do something like this? - Smarting! You've told us a shame, and you're still staying there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: But the jobs are secured with the planes and not without!]] Okay, you've secured the plane, colleague Murauer! But you have been talking about securing jobs all the time. Yeah, where? – Not even in the military! [[Abg. Murauer: That's where you asked yourself badly!]] And then I look at the compensation transactions: How many millions, Mr Grillitsch, have in the meantime flown into the Upper Styria? [[Abg. Gaál: Air business!]] – Thank you many times, my colleague: Air business, yes! [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] When we talk about airspace defence – I look at you, Mr. Cot. – and heard the example that was so dramaticly presented and that you were “played” in the budget committee, I ask you: [[Abg. Murauer: Look elsewhere! Don't look at me! You have to look right!]] Where were our airspace guards when the helicopters went to Mauthausen? – But not those who fly up, but those who are supposed to make sure that everyone who wants to fly around there knows that they are not allowed to fly there! Where were they? – On vacation probably, because otherwise it would never have happened! You, Mr Murauer, said today: Yeah, do you think that's been ordered? – Well, if you say so, I do not know if you can reject it, but you said that, Mr Murauer! Federal Minister! If this is the speech of a defence budget which is so excellent and which is increased by so much money, and Mr Ikrath has spoken of a turnaround, Mr Ikrath may explain to me the following: So far I have believed Turnaround means that there is an upsurge after I've been bad stagnant so far. – But this is a turnaround from 0.82 percent of GDP to 0.74 percent of GDP – a turnaround, but down! [[Abg. May. Ikrath: No, my colleague! It's about money numbers! Can we agree on that?]] What is economically classy and great about it, and what is so great and great about it for the employees there and for the Austrian security that you sing so much, is what you must look forward to, Mr Ikrath! For these reasons, and above all, Mr Federal Minister, because you cannot even secure the future of military reform with the 233 million package, but will not allow the future procurement of the Eurofighters to be reformed by the German army, we cannot agree to this budget at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13487	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13505	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to go into the debate between Red and Black, which Members have been present for how long in which debates, because I think that should be the decision of the individual Members. I would just like to make one point which was discussed today at the beginning of the debate, but which was actually not really taken up by the Minister, once again. – It is about this intended shortening of the military service. This is already discussed and discussed openly at various levels. Mr Murauer has already said this, and it should also be published in various high-gloss brochures: It is about the reduction of military service to six months by 1. January 2006 will come. Minister! I think it is important that the Freedom Party has represented a clear line for this from the very beginning. We have always said that we are confessing the results of the Federal Force Reform Commission. It has unanimously found a clear approach – in a consensus of all four parties – which has stated roughly so that the reduction of military service can take place from today's point of view after the absence of assistance at the border, but at the earliest in 2007. I am convinced that this is the right approach. We need to ensure safety and assistance. The Federal Army has important tasks to do, and we will stick to this approach. Mr Minister, I would also ask you at this point to consider the results of this Federal Army Reform Commission, to consider this consensus wisely, to comply with the announcements and not to proclaim fully now that the reduction will be safe in 2006. We all know that you have the legal and technical competence to do so, but at this point it was clarified: From today's point of view, the free government partner will not agree to this reduction.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13540	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13560	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The national defence budget can only be comprehensible in different positions if one assumes the intention of concealing the actual use of resources. Otherwise, it is impossible to explain that there are different budget approaches, which sometimes rise by some 100 percent. The reason for this is not recognizable in the budget. Minister! The question is as follows: Why are you hiding? Why can't you write what it is into the budget? Despite punctual increases, which can be found in the various approaches, however, it is the fact that the sum of funds decreases in relation to total economic performance. You remember: In 2000, they promised to bring the Wehrbudget to 1.5 percent of GDP. In fact, today you are 10 percent below the 2000 level. I think that this is not a very honest policy, and that your policy is not very democratic either, as you show by the example of the legal protection officer once again, by making new rules that are subject to the rule of law. However, we were allowed to debate in detail last week. In the next few years, the defence budget will also be substantially determined by the presuppositions. The Court of Auditors has also repeatedly criticised this issue. If, according to your information, Mr. Federal Minister, costs of €962 million in 2005 are up to €258 million in pre-taxes of €258 million or, according to your information, €2.4 billion by 2014, then it is likely that when the costs for the Eurofighters are hit, the defense budget will no longer be enforceable. [[Abg. Scheibner: There is a law for financing!]] At the same time, They no longer have the necessary means to provide sufficient protection and security to the soldiers, however no funds will be available for the long overdue troops radio – nor in the medium term. Mr Federal Minister, you do not solve any problems with your policy, but you create problems! Above all, you make debt at the expense of the next generations. It is interesting, therefore, that Members of your group or the Federal Government here on the floor of the speaker say again and again that the current Federal Government must impose these burdens and carry out this non-social policy now because the SPÖ would have indebted Austria. Either there is a medical problem, or you want to lead people behind the light. It was only today that Mr Keussnigg of the People's Party meant that you had inherited the debt. You are right, Mr. Keussnigg, but you already know who you inherited the debt from your Federal Chancellor Schüssel. [[Abg. May. Molterer: From Kreisky!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Mr Eßl told us yesterday that Austria is on the go as far as re-indebtedness is concerned, then you are right. There has never been a government that has indebted a country so much in such a short time. I would like to mention a number of comparisons: 13 years of SPÖ government alone – at the end about 350 billion Schilling debts. They gave the same result in just five years: five years of blue-black federal government – 300 billion schilling new debt. So you owe Austria more than double in a short time. The real debtors are in the government. They are responsible for Austria's debt as high as ever. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! Go into you, be a little more honest, make a little less debt, that will be good for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13619	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13637	Minister, I ask myself: How do you take the rest with which you sit here on the government bank – knowing what situation your budget and your place is in? [[Abg. May. Molterer: From the safety of quality!]] If you have 33 percent overload of the entire budget on your own, then that's actually an alarm sign. In fact, you have to stop the head for the purchase of an aircraft – because at the time you were not yet ministers – which is taken by the type by at least three or five floors too high, which is a fighter plane that really does not need to be used by Austria, but for which, per year, € 233 million in running costs already apply. 2.6 billion euros have to be used for this, against the background of the fact that tomorrow we are getting a pension harmonisation model on the table, which you will also decide with your majority, that the pension cuts will be reduced; against the background that you have to stand for 44 burdens as a government; against the background that at the beginning of December a health package will be cut here, of which we have heard that it includes an increase in the hospital costs that have been added to the countries, and a removal of the grant for the visual assistance; that is, against massive burdens on the Austrians! You, Mr Federal Minister, have a budget disaster up there, as far as the defence budget is concerned, together with your other colleagues in the government, you have to face a massive social reduction and new burdens – and the whole thing is against the background of the fact that the Eurofighter does not really exist from the second tranche and the money is thrown out at the window! Against this background, you are sitting there, inseparably – especially that you do not solve any crossword puzzles up there – instead of realising this crisis and emergency situation, both in terms of your budget and in terms of what background it has developed. [[Abg. May. Molterer: I disagree! He's not involved!]] You have to think about it: The health package has gone by €65 million over the last few days! Each year, € 233 million will be thrown out for the preparation of the Eurofighter. Only when I think about what the rent of the F5 costs: €23 million a year, a third of what the health package was all about, because of which there was a chaos within the government for days and what was being negotiated here. €23 million for the F5, which, by the way, are attractively noted in the 2005 budget estimate under the heading ‘Mites for other moving things’. [[Federal Minister Platter: Is moving!]] This is pure optimism, that there is “moving things”. In other words, you assume that this aircraft is flightable, although it is quite anrtuous model, with which – also as a consequence of this Eurofighter purchase strategy – €23 million is thrown out of the window. [[Abg. Neudeck: They are not the youngest and still talk!]] That's the truth we're standing before. You're taking it with you. The budget is a budget, which I believe is an expression of chaotic security and financial management. Then you, Minister Platter, sit here in all the peace of mind and are left alone on the government bank – you have to say that too – because everyone is happy if he does not have to sit next to you in this chapter when it comes to the question of Eurofighter and Defence Budget. I wonder, What scope do you have for action with this budget at all? – It is clear that one hears one complaint after another from the various arms holes of the Federal Army, because the whole money is raised into the Eurofighter acquisition and because they have nothing left in the arms pits as far as the question of more security is concerned. Against the background of social reduction and loads, the purchase of an aircraft is defended, with the money being thrown out of the window and nothing other than chaos and mismanagement in this security area is expressed. To do this, I have to say: There would actually be unrest, and there would also be activism from your side to eliminate this abuse. – Therefore, you understand why the opposition here also brings criticism with this vehemence.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13717	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does Mr Special Rapporteur wish a final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore voting on the XII advisory group of the 2005 Federal Proposal. This includes Chapter 40 of the Federal Estimate in 650 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Advisory Group XI Chapter 50: Financial management Chapter 51: Cash account Chapter 52: Public charges Chapter 53: Financial compensation Chapter 54: Federal assets Chapter 55: Pensions Chapter 58: Community financing, foreign exchange agreements Text of the Federal Finance Act and establishment plan
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13806	We are now entering the joint debate on the Advisory Group on XI and on the text of the Federal Finance Act and all the investments, as far as they have not yet been negotiated. There is no oral reporting. We are entering the debate, so it is open. Mr Matznetter was the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13833	Madam President. An almost empty government bank, Mr Platter, is still here – so much interest exists for the budget, although it is always praiseful words from the government parties. On this occasion, I may boldly quote the ÖVP budget speaker: “This budget is also a budget of future optimism, which is because, despite the continued consolidation, accents have been set here in spite of savings. As a few examples, I mention the question of “tax reform”. And on top of that: “I know that every finance minister sees this with a crying and smiling eye, I understand. But it is a signal of optimism". Or: "But this is a signal that despite savings, offensive future strategies are possible. The government has recognized this, and as a parliamentary majority we will be happy to take this future course with this budget, ladies and gentlemen.’ Or: "If we are debating the budget..., we must also see in which economic landscape these accents are placed. It is clear to me that in every country in the world, the opposition in the budget debate is probably painting everything in gloomy colors – with pessimism, with negative things.” “But, ladies and gentlemen, ” continues stupidly, “there are certain key figures that are not we call but that the European Community is publishing and that are indisputable. And the main key figures are now economic growth, unemployment and price increases." What was the point of Mr. Budgetary Spokesman of the ÖVP? [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is really good when you have models! Real models!]] To a budget of Mr Grasser's Minister of Finance? – No, it was the 1999 budget of Rudolf Edlinger! So many of these tumultuous budgets, which were supposed to be those bad budgets that were necessary in relation to a change. He was right, the dumb man! [[Abg. Scheibner: No, he didn't!]] He was right in the following points: Indeed, our economic growth in the 1990s, at a time when the great disaster was said to have existed, was 2.8% on average compared with the other Member States of the European Union from 1996 to 1999, with an average of 2.6% of the European Union's economic growth at that time. By the way, this is from the statistical yearbook of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Col. Stummvoll, only so that you know the source; it is correctly quoted from Statistics Austria. But even more interesting is the fact that we are now 1.9 percent in the autumn forecast or 1.9 percent, and therefore just below the EU-15 average, as Wifo says. Well, perhaps the positive part of Mr Grasser's budget is unemployment. But there we have another problem. You have exactly the same speech – by the way, read in the minutes of the 115. Meeting on page 88 – stated that it is convincing that we have the “second least value” in unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Do you have your own speech, too, Mr. Colleague?]] But we don't have the second lowest value anymore! After the current revisions, we are about sixth in unemployment. And it's no wonder: The annual average number of unemployed has increased from 194 314 in 2000 to 240 079 in 2003. [[Abg. Kößl: In the EU average...!]] Result: catastrophic! But perhaps he thinks that inflation is more favourable at the time. He's right: There too we were better! You should actually come out here with the demand: Let's go back to Rudi Edlinger's budget course! – But no, he defends a budget, and we will hear it again afterwards from the best speaker here in Parliament... [[Abg. May. Kogler: Now he's here!]] He's here? [[The speaker turns around and sees how Federal Minister Mag. Grasser on the government bank is taking his place.]] Please, we have the Minister of Finance! You found him in the short term, that's amazing. It is a different matter for you in budgetary policy, Mr Federal Minister. There it is: While every finance minister in the world, if the economy fails, ensures that expenditure efficiency is driven by a small increase in the deficit, you have made the most restrictive budget in 2001. On the motorway you call a motorist who is driving on the road exactly in the opposite direction, a ghost driver. Now you always hope, when a budgetary spirit drive takes place, that the reflection comes to the radio news at the latest and you reverse. But what does the Minister of Finance do? – He turns back, but goes to the other roadway, he almost goes back in the opposite direction as a double budget-political ghost driver and makes the budget deficits rise into the rising economy. This has not yet been experienced by the Second Republic! This, Minister of Finance Grasser, is certainly the wrong way, no matter what economic policy premise, that is to say, rising deficits instead of fiscal consolidation in the face of rising economic growth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now I have just stupidly quoted my colleague, but I could also present you with a wonderful monologue of President Khol on the budgets of Minister of Finance Edlinger. I leave it away because the then accusation of the opposition – that's for She was interesting – was funny. [[towards the freedom of movement]] The FPÖ is doing a zigzag course in the opposition in its criticism of the budget. [[Abg. Bucher: And you make a parallel slalom!]] This is interesting to hear from a group which mentions the same budget one year later as the worst, with praise. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why are you yelling like this?]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid:...not said!]] This is not a zigzag course – that would at least lead in any direction – but that is: back and forth, always speaking the opposite to the same thing. – So much for “seriousness”. But now on the real problems of the chapter Finance. If we look at the cause of the deficit, it is clear that we have a revenue problem, namely, that this tax reform is, of course, at the wrong time, much too late to become effective in the crisis, and with the wrong recipients. I recommend that anyone who wants to deal with the question of where the reduction comes from – Mr Walch, for example – to deal with the question of whether it comes to workers' minds and employees' minds. In the overview 14 on the budget speech, you will find that the employees are for this year – that is budgeted, we will see if it holds; but it will hold because they always have to pay – € 17.3 billion in pay tax. Do you know how much this falls, Mr. Walch? – At 17 billion, that's just 1.7 percent less! Because the workers deserve so much more? – No, because this tax reform is going elsewhere. Now we would hope that the money would at least flow to SMEs in order to create this employment. But no, only 700 million of waste on corporate tax is essentially exclusively due to the large corporations! There are large head companies that have so far paid beyond €30 million; they pay next year how much corporate tax? – I tell you, zero! For they have group taxation and will no longer bear corporate tax burden. Whoever will pay it is our hardworking population, that is, the workers and the small businesses. These are the victims of politics! For in the future, large companies investing abroad will be subsidized, not those investing in subsidiaries with profit, but in those with losses. This is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. The change will be decided by someone you can't put in the bag: the Austrian population at the next election! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e13993	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14011	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I admit, I have a problem now. I have not prepared any long quotations, I have my own speech, Mr Matznetter. This is, of course, my problem now. I could have prepared so many quotations, but I believed that in Parliament a speech of my own is worth more than long. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If, at the end of this budget debate, we are discussing the chapter on finance today, I think we can take a little account of this budget debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] For me, this budget debate actually has two main results. First: There is no alternative to the budget presented here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There have been many contributions to the opposition, but there has been no alternative budget at all. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: A proper financial policy!]] Now I admit, my Ladies and gentlemen: The better the government, the harder it is for the opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Then we have it easy!]] You must be so honest, ladies and gentlemen: The opposition is difficult, because the government is first-class on its way, Mr Matznetter, we need to understand that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – So, first of all, there is no alternative to this budget, no alternative proposals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] It's too late now, Mr Kogler. You could have introduced alternative concepts earlier, today it's too late. Second sign is a certain contrast program: on the one hand, data, facts, comparisons that make us safe; on the other hand, black painting, pessimism, an unbelievably balled negative energy with expressions like “Jammertal”, “Chaos” and the like. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, every citizen can make a picture of what it looks like in our country. If we're just looking at ourselves abroad today, we'll see that we're good on the road. Mr Matznetter, I never said everything was bad before. I'm just saying, Everything's better today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It can always be better, Mr Matznetter! There are key figures that were not bad in 1999, I like to admit. But in total, we are much better there today than in 1999. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: In unemployment?]] We're talking about the budget, and I'm calling you two key figures. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You mentioned these three at the time!]] We have lowered the expenditure ratio of the government budget in terms of expenditure-side rehabilitation from more than 53 percent to less than 50 percent in 2005 – an expenditure-side reorganisation of the government budget! [[Abg. Riepl: How does this look for the people, the unemployed?]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You said: “Economic growth, unemployment and price increases”!]] We will reduce the tax and tax rate, Mr Matznetter, which was already 45.4 percent, to 40.6 percent in 2006. These are sensational results of a consolidation policy, please, which has the mark: Stability on the one hand, dynamics on the other! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Three times you're worse...!]] Mr Matznetter, you will not be able to argue that the 2005 budget has two very distinctive features: It is that budget that has to finance the biggest tax reduction in the history of the Second Republic! A budget that has to finance a tax reduction of €3 billion – in old Schilling amounts it would be 40 billion schilling in tax reduction! This is a tax reduction, Mr Matznetter, who has two priorities, on the one hand, to strengthen purchasing power. It is no coincidence that the economic researchers say that next year real income will rise by 2.5 percent – 2.5 percent real income increase! A second consequence is the impetus for economic growth: After 0.8 percent this year, it is 1.8 percent and it will be 2.5 percent next year – the highest economic growth for six years, Mr. Matznetter! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Yes, but the others have no...!]] Yeah, all of this doesn't matter to you, I know. But I am trying to discuss matters objectively and not just discuss them with polemics, Mr Matznetter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Me too!]] Secondly, we have a 2005 budget, which, on the one hand, continues the growth policy very consistently, the economic package I, the economic package II, growth and location package has already started. The second feature in the future is that this 2005 budget is exactly on the line of the strategy we have developed with regard to 2010, namely first stability in the state budget, second discharge of businesses and employees, third investment in the future, Mr Riepl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl]] [[Abg. Eder: Always say the same!]] With regard to these three strategies, we are fully on track with this budget. [[Abg. Riepl: More unemployed!]] Yes, we are partly at the same time as forecast: For example, we said that in 2010, the tax rate should be 40 percent; we will already reach the 40.6 percent tax rate in 2006, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Investment in the future – let’s look at the research rate. We are already fifth in the EU with a research rate of 2.3 percent. That is to say, politics as a future design, that is to invest in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You said: “Economic growth, unemployment and price increases”!]] Research and development, Mr Matznetter: Something that didn't happen at the time – I like to admit that – when I was State Secretary. At that time, we did not invest as intensively and as massively in the future as under this Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Do we have today... economic growth?]] Mr Matznetter, your chance of speaking was already! Do not limit my speaking time with constant calls! [[Abg. Bucher: Plempert!]] Mr Matznetter, take Please note: We are happy to discuss on the basis of concrete facts and facts. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Wonderful!]] But only polemics, “Now it’s all bad, and under Rudi Edlinger everything was so much better!”, that’s a too simple concept, Mr. Matznetter. [[Abg. Riepl: Do we have more unemployed or not?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: More employees! We have more employees!]] [[Abg. Sburny: And more unemployed!]] I'll tell you: We have here a federal government that is sailing a very consistent financial policy course, a course that distinguishes us from many European countries and that has led to the currency fund saying, for example: We are a “show case”, a model example of reforms in European financial policy. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But we have...!]] You were there at the time when the experts of the Monetary Fund were here in the house, Mr. Col., you were there. The final report stated: We are a model example of reforms in Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Finanzminister! I congratulate you on such statements by international experts! We are glad that we have you as Minister of Finance, we are glad that we have this government!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14349	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14367	Madam President. Federal Minister! Today, because we advise the financial chapter, I would like to expressly mention the excellent quality of the work of officials and officials in the Ministry of Finance, probably also in the sense of the previous speakers and post-voice speakers in the plenary. [[General condolences.]] It is, of course, true that, since the debate has become a bit more controversial, one or another in the Ministry of Finance from the year 2000 onwards, if he is also a civil servant who has come up with some kind of appeal or judgment. In principle, I would like to maintain that it is big modo an excellent house. By the way, I do not even agree that it is not so easy, especially in times of political change, and the Minister of the State has understood it – and this is also in his favour; I say it so that everyone has something of it – very skillfully understood how to hold it together. This may not be so easy in such times. [[Abg. May. Controller: Finally a positive speech!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: (in the direction of Bun- des Minister Mag. Grasser) Mr Minister, he has praised you!]] [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] This may have given us cause for criticism if we have not been able to do so. But it has been successful – and then you have to recognise that the predecessors can't be completely swimming on the noodle soup too – that this is an excellent house from professional competence. This should be noted once in the financial debate – since we have been delivering some gross fights lately. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: There's so much praise coming, there must be something behind it!]] I believe that this is a good occasion now – it is the financial chapter of the entire budget for the negotiation. In the Committee, we do not believe, with our most critical questions, that the competence in the House is in principle challenged. Of course we practice criticism there or there. Perhaps we will address today whether or not the estimate of €100 million is valid in the context of group taxation. I have now received the answer again, one defends this approach; I have to take this into account, we still have further doubts. But without prejudice to such individual points, it is generally very good. Now to the remarks of my previous speaker, who meant that it was not all bad. – We always say that, because it’s really not all bad. Mr Stumpfully also pointed out that certain statistics can be compared internationally. I can also follow him in that. My criticism of the Minister of Finance is that a certain selective selection is often made, but that is still to be done. For the future, I would suggest that if we talk about inflation, it would be at least relatively close, if not reasonable, to use the euro area for comparison. It has recently been compared with the entire EU-25. I mean, that doesn't make that much sense. Moreover, with regard to growth, employment and these things, the level of unemployment is not necessarily crucial, but rather the rate of change, especially if one wants to claim success for short-term policy, because it is less the level of change, but rather the rate of change. In addition, it is quite reasonable not only to look at the EU-25 section, perhaps not even to the EU-15 section, which would be more serious, but also to use countries of comparable size and countries with similar structures for comparison. There may already be other results, and there will probably also be some ideological difference, because some Scandinavian countries, which are quite comparable in certain data, are also exemplary for us. They are not so good for you because they have a higher tax rate, but this debate has already been held here, and I do not want to go further on. I would just like to say that it may sometimes be useful for you to understand, if you are already doing so many statistical additions here, in the sense of seriality, a few jointly recognised data. Mr President, on the question of growth, it should be noted to our group that the 2005 budget figures reflect very strongly the impact of the two stages of the 2004/2005 tax reform. Although not all of the effects are present, it is already noticeable. Because we have also been having a discourse a few times, I say once again that we are holding to the Institute of Economic Research in this case too. After this there are not even 0.3 percent of the growth effect inside, cumulated and, of course, longer term for 2005. What does this mean, however, when we go into the parole level that has been squabbled down on us from the day of the budget speech? A central statement was: Upturn through discharge. If you look at this, it is noted that only a minimal proportion of the upturn has been triggered by this tax reform or tax reduction. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: It is also necessary to include economic packages I and II!]] – Wait, I'm coming to talk! Thus, the great slogan “resurrection by redemption” cannot be maintained. We have told you that too, and I think it would be useful if we wanted to meet here in a serious way, to split up and say: Okay, there are small effects. You asked for our alternatives, Mr President, that is why I am now making such a long loop. At least you should know that not only our group, but also our group, has already said that something has to happen at the time of a clearly approaching downturn. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: “Something has to happen!” – that’s not a concept yet!]] This can happen on the part of the expenditure side, and you will not be surprised at that. You yourself have baptized what you have done. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: on the side of the tax!]] We have voted in favour of a part of the tax reform, which has already been in the room for some time, namely that part that would have become real and faster purchasing power, namely for the lower levels of income. Today, you – and this is the next argument I am taking – have argued with the increase in purchasing power. Two, three years ago, you were completely squandered; it was said that the small Austrian could not do so with its small open economy. That's right, too. A multiplier of one is, of course, completely illusory, by the way, too. However, if the tax reduction is concentrated on lower incomes – we have, of course, had a distribution policy motive that you do not share – then if the purchase power argument is already cited, of course, much more effects and growth effects are generated. I hope that this should remain undisputed. And then, of course, we could continue to see what consequences this would have had. We are always ready and willing to have this discussion with you. At the time of the so-called government negotiations, if we wanted to call it this way, we looked at the data in detail, provided they were published by the ministry, and then suggested preferring part of the tax reform. This would have been as similar as the FPÖ did then – this is one of the few things you have obviously enforced – but we would have stressed more that something is being done specifically for certain levels of income. [[towards the freedom of movement]] - So much to the alternatives. Back to Parolity! So recovery through discharge does not apply to me. A second big story was that this deficit is therefore a higher than usual because this tax reduction is being made. It would make up the biggest share. But this is true for the year 2005 – and this Federal Finance Act is now in place – not, Mr. Finanzminister! They have included the economic packages and all the others, the share of the tax loss from the title of the so-called tax reform is only a fraction of the administrative deficit of 1.9 percent throughout Germany and across the countries and communities. Today at 8 o'clock in the morning I heard “Ö 3” – I think it was this transmitter – and the Ministry of Finance again argued with the tax reduction supposedly for all as a deficit cause. That's what's supposed to be on a billion plus, plus the title Köst for everyone, but my colleague, Sburny, will go in, but be it around. What really is to be said about this tax reduction? It's not 1.4 percent or anything in this order, so you could say that the deficit would otherwise be only 0.5 percent. That is wrong, it is much less, and that was a point that has gone through the whole debate. Federal Minister! I have to tell you, we told you a couple of times. – They are obviously advisory-resistant on this issue. You wonder why you spend so much money on consultants all the time, if you have such resistance at the same time. You could save a lot. In any case, it is much less out of the title of tax reduction. However, if you calculate the economic packages and other ones, you say so. Then we would argue that, except for a single measure, these things would not have deserved the name of the economic package at all. Finally, we are still talking about the level of the deficit. What happened? We now have the financial compensation proposals in place. You will probably say again that this has always been the case: First of all, the budget, then the wage increases for officials – okay, that was really always the case – but when the financial compensation was made up, it was clear that there was still something that needed to be done. If you look at this in retrospect – and these applications will, I suppose, be submitted – you realize that our forecasts on the tenth are exactly right. It would then have been possible to calculate social security. I know that this does not correspond to the à la Maastricht calculation scheme, but please, who is responsible, except for federal policy, to indicate the relevant rules. That means we don't have anything to take back. As a result, you should make a final statement here, because these slogans, if an objective debate is already initiated here, do not hold. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Don't do it for so long, perhaps anyone else from your group would like to say something.]] – Thank you for the note! Mr Brosz is grateful for every assistance. I'd just recommend that he choose her. As a final point: VA-Tech. Again: Federal Minister! Explain why something that was an enemy takeover a few weeks ago should now suddenly be palletti. I'm not saying this is to be rejected from the outset. Nothing of that! The ÖIAG leaned out of the window and spoke exclusively of an enemy takeover. It is only because of certain processes that you should explain that all this has become different. Now I say that can be a reasonable solution. The point is just what the Republic might now do about the ÖIAG – at least 14.7 percent in there. What is being done to safeguard those areas which may be highly productive, so that they are not condemned to leave the market sooner or later, but now have the wrong to be swallowed. This would be interesting, and this concerns a few locations where there is also a high regional economic importance. It would really interest me, as you are now taking away for the Weiz site, that you and others have originally spoken of an enemy takeover. We mean, and here we are not alone with the fact that, as long as these things are not clarified, it is necessary to take a look at whether this whole announced process is in line with the government's privatisation mandate, which was drawn up under your leadership – I mean, that is not so easy at all – and whether, if certain guarantees are not given, the ÖIAG should not remain inside. This is not my credo, we are also partly different from the SPÖ, but that would be a prerequisite that the whole process still retains some sort of credibility. I'd be interested in what you're saying. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That was also my last question, so my colleague Scheuch doesn't need to get upset now – he's already gone anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14532	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14550	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Assigned: It is not quite easy to reply to these statements, because it is extremely rare – but today is just such a day – that the statements of the previous speakers are completely surprised, because once the Freedom Party is praised by the Greens, because the Minister of Finance is praised, because the Ministry of Finance is praised and one can basically find nothing that one wants to suspend on this budget. The only thing that has been left to me from Mr Kogler's remarks is that he has located deficit growth somewhere on the radar screen and has been able to predict how it will develop in some way. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: A visionary!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – Your speech, Mr Matznetter, was also very provocative, because you just presented quotations. This is only my second budget debate, which I can follow in this House. [[Abg. Neudeck: You're good at that!]] Basically, the picture has shown that relatively little substance is present. In addition to the individual budget chapters, relatively little criticism has been made except for preferences for different types of comparisons, whether as a percentage of GDP or in absolute figures, and the question whether, in the end, more or less budget is available for each department. Substantial criticism was relatively little to be found. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Look, you have to be jealous to recognise – I mean, this has also come from your remarks and from that of Mr Kogler – that the budget is an absolutely right budget with a view to more growth and more upswing in the next few years and that, for example, this financial compensation law is a proper signal to strengthen rural areas, so that smaller communities are provided with more resources through the graduated population keys. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The highest unemployment!]] After all, it is €80 million to €100 million, which are transferred to the smaller communities. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Yes, it is difficult for the opposition! The tax reform at the right time, a signal for the economy, relief of small and medium-sized incomes. We move in total €4 billion. Köst, a real signal for investors who would have been deterred by your sometimes not precise enough prepared economic concepts, which you always believe to have to show. Of the contents of these concepts, however, nothing remains to our suffering as a political opponent anyway. This budget is, in sum, the right signal to launch the upturn in Austria. If you look into other European countries, you will find that at the moment there is a very damp mood. We see that inflation is on the rise; it is clear from tomorrow's newspapers. This, of course, also poses a risk of an increase in interest rates and of putting a little pressure on growth. However, compared to the European countries, Austria is well aware of the unemployment rate as a whole, with regard to growth as a whole, with regard to export development and, of course, also with regard to business start-ups: at least 30 000 new companies. These are many entrepreneurs who are encouraging, creating jobs, and who are also making sure that growth continues in the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen! Our policy means less state, less taxes, more for citizens! This can be read from the administrative reform, where savings are achieved through the reduction of employees and rationalization measures. This also means a structurally reasonable privatisation policy through the ÖIAG. In total, ladies and gentlemen, this budget is a good basis for more employment and prosperity.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14637	It has Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Grasser to speak. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14656	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A debate has also been held on data and facts, and I may be able to take advantage of the opportunity, after I was able to present the final figures, data and facts of the autumn forecast of the European Commission to ECOFIN, that is to say to the Council of Finance Ministers, and to the Eurogroup. It is positive that the Commission essentially confirms our budget figures. It confirms the deficit for 2005, says one will have a deficit of 2%. We think it'll be 1.9 percent. It is important that the Commission confirms that there is a falling trend. For the year 2006, the value of 1.7 percent is assumed. It confirms the falling debt ratio for the Republic and confirms growth, ladies and gentlemen, and I am very pleased that in the past we have often been so estimated by the Commission that in Austria there will be lower growth than in other countries. It was only in the posthumous period that it turned out that Austria was better. Now, in this forecast, the euro area, i.e. monetary union, is estimated by the Commission to grow to 2% next year, but the whole Union of 25 Member States to 2.3 percent growth and Austria to 2.4 percent. This means better than the euro area and better than the EU-25. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This continues until 2006, for which Austria also receives an assessment of 2.4 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, something even more important, which is a very, very serious concern to all of us, is that employment continues to increase with this increase in growth. We already have more than 100 000 workers in employment than in 1999. The Commission continues to test us with rising employment growth, while at the same time reducing unemployment, but in a slightly reduced form for 2005: from 4.2 to 3.9 percent, but then significantly falling to 3.4 percent in 2006. That is, I think, also the main point of our interest, ladies and gentlemen. We must do everything we can to bring about the change on the labour market. We invest €4.5 billion in the labour market with this budget. And if we still manage not only to bring more people into employment, but also to significantly reduce unemployment, this is an example of success for our budget policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] When I report on the Eurogroup and the ECOFIN, I should like to add something to the budget debate, which is essential to me and, I believe, is also important to the House because it was a very, very negative prejudice for economic and monetary union. I would therefore also like to inform you here about this debate. I am referring to the report on Greece's budgetary data development. The Eurogroup and ECOFIN have been reported to the effect that EUROSTAT and the Commission have carried out a new review of the data situation in Greece and have shown that the deficit has been revised to more than 6 per cent in 1997 and that the current level in 2004 is more than 5 per cent. The sad reality is that between 1997 and 2004, Greece's deficit was clearly below 3% and that Greece did not meet the conditions for economic and monetary union. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I believe that we need to stick to what we have done here, and I also thank you for having been welcomed by President Prinzhorn in advance. I believe that this was an inconceivable and unacceptable process of Greece, I believe it is urgent to call on all the member countries of economic and monetary union to put on the table the responsibilities for this budgetary policy, to have consequences, and to do everything, ladies and gentlemen, above all, so that there can never be such a case again. That is to say, it is about prevention, and the question is whether we should not introduce fines for such a financial policy. First point. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You should be a little more careful!]] The second point is to consider introducing more stringent controls in order to ensure that new countries wish to join economic and monetary union. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Think about the Asfinag, the Rail and so on! You should be more careful!]] Mr Matznetter, if you are talking about being careful, I would say that we are different in some questions. This is legitimate between government and opposition. However, I can tell you that in my press discussion yesterday I was referring to a report from the 'Focus', in which, with reference to anonymous sources in Eurostat and the Commission, it was said that in Austria in 1997 the deficit would have been lowered by 0.25% of gross domestic product in one year, which was significant as a basis for calculating Austria's accession to economic and monetary union. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Today it's much worse!]] I'll tell you: Of course, I refused that there would have been. I asked myself in my house, and I believe that even if you think otherwise about financial policy, you have everything to do to reject a totally unjustified criticism of Austria, which is to be brought in from the outside. A comparison of Austria – I can tell you that was the case yesterday in the press conference – a comparison of Austrian financial policy with Greek had to be rejected. I have, of course, done this, even if at the time it was Socialist Finance Ministers, because we did not have Greek conditions, we will never have. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Not yet!]] You can be sure that we place all the greatest value on correctness of the data. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But the debt has already increased!]] Mr Matznetter! I think we should have a common interest in finding an interpretation. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Right! But be careful!]] There will always be interpretative questions where Eurostat says that this has been interpreted by a country, and we are now going to explain this differently. And you know that legal funding has laid the foundation of social-democratic finance ministers and that Eurostat has withdrawn them. But I think we should have a common interest in finding that this is a fundamental difference compared to a data situation like that of Greece... [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: We have that, but we don't start right out of punishment and so on!]] There can be no excuses, of course, starting from punishment, for someone who deliberately, Mr Matznetter, provides data wrong and thus gives a different impression – even when it comes to the accession of a country to economic and monetary union. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Be careful!]] The data must be correctly reported, there must be a good basis for the economy to enable a country to join the economic and monetary union. We owe this to the euro, we owe it to a functioning economic and monetary union, and this line will continue to be represented accordingly in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the financial chapter is under discussion, I can give you three examples. First of all, the reform of financial management. It is my concern to stress here once again that since 2000, we have been consistently taking a course of reform of the financial management, which has begun in the Ministry of Finance itself. We have saved a section, we have saved many groups, we have saved departments. We have carried this reform to the next level, we have saved seven financial country directors and, on the other hand, we have had every interest in carrying responsibility to the outside, in giving responsibility to the financial offices, in promoting personal responsibility there, and in doing so, in identifying a motivation for the staff. These are measures associated with staff savings of 2,400 people from 2000 to 2006. That is to say, at the same time as a stronger financial management, we are making a fundamental redimensional approach to the number of people. This alone saves up to 2006 an amount in the order of 100 million € per year. We have put in place measures to combat fraud. I can name the reverse batch in the construction area, where there are always extensive pre-tax frauds. We have said that we must oppose this very massively and make the fight against fraud a priority. In total, ladies and gentlemen, there is a fundamental reform of financial management savings on the one hand and additional results on the other side amounting to € 470 million per year. The full effect will be in 2006. – This is just to give you a model example of a reform of the administration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: It is also a great concern to us for development aid. I should like to stress once again that the current Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner and the new Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ursula Plassnik, are a major concern, including in the development aid, to achieve international standards in development cooperation. If you look at the financial chapter, you will find a number of positions here that are about debt reliefs related to international actions. We are involved in a multilateral creditor forum, in the Paris Club, and then, in the light of these multilateral agreements, make corresponding bilateral re-debt contracts. There will be a number of such re-debt contracts in 2005 and 2006. Together with a strengthening of the budget positions of development cooperation, this will result in our target of 0.33 percent of gross domestic product for development cooperation in 2006 and will therefore also meet international commitments. I think a beautiful success of Benita Ferrero-Waldner, of all of us and of the new Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, as an example of the financial chapter: the Federal Finance Agency. I believe that we have an excellently working institution, distributed but within the framework of financial management. I should like to point out what we have achieved since 2000 in terms of savings compared to euro financing. Because the Austrian financial debt has also been refinanced in Yen and in the Swiss franc, we have been able to save €3 936 million by the end of 2003, i.e. almost €4 billion in savings from a model refinancing policy by the Austrian Federal Finance Agency. This is to be seen together with a policy with which one has understood to significantly reduce the average interest rate of Austrian debt in recent years. In 1999, we had an average interest rate – weighted average tax rates – of 5.44 percent. They fell to 4.75% in August this year. This is a very clear reduction, even with regard to the interest rate of public debt, and thus, in sum, a very, very clear saving that could be achieved through a model policy of the Federal Finance Agency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Kogler referred several times to these financial compensatory debates. You have said several times that we have to deal with amendments accordingly. Of course, these amendments are also tabled, Mr Kogler, at a time when we actually know that this is the financial compensation, so it is agreed with the local authorities, i.e. with the countries, with the cities and communities, so that we can certainly present to the House the figures resulting from these financial compensatory negotiations. Therefore: There is this shift in the financial mass of € 212 million from the federal government in favour of the countries on the one hand, in favour of the cities and communities on the other side; also in favour of the problems of national teachers and the special educational needs. I believe that it was very important that the Council of Ministers decided yesterday on the same subject, a financial compensation, which includes essential structural elements. Firstly, the continuation of administrative reform is a high priority. Second point: a clear strengthening of the small communities. I think it is a great success that we have succeeded for the first time in getting out of the graded population key and strengthening the financial strength of small communities by around €100 million. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A great deal of concern to the House, I think, also goes beyond the political boundaries. The third essential structural element in the financial balance: a single key over the entire levy, so that the taxes are fairly distributed to the local authorities. Fourth point: Consensus also exists in the health sector, both in terms of surplus income on the one hand and in terms of savings, cost reductions, expenditure reductions in the health sector on the other. The last point – not necessarily expected in the House – is that we will succeed, ladies and gentlemen: Throughout the party borders, we have succeeded in bringing together the financial compensatory partners – at least with three countries that are socially democratically ruling, including the headquarters of the national conference – to say: We stand for a stability-oriented budgetary policy, we agree together on the objective of achieving a balanced budget, a zero deficit by 2008. Ladies and gentlemen! There you can see a handwriting, and where responsibility is borne, you can see very well: more growth, more jobs, more income. This can only be done if one has a solid foundation, and this solid foundation is ordinary state finances, is a stable state budget, and that is this 2005 budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Since we don't have that, we don't have a solid foundation and therefore more unemployed, less growth, less income!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying: If you draw the comparison between 1999 and 2005, it is very clear: The tax rate is 2 percentage points lower than it was then. We have €1.5 billion in redundancies for workers, we have €1.5 billion in relief for the economy and here, I emphasize, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, because this government is aware that it is the small and medium-sized enterprises that employ workers, that it is small and medium-sized enterprises that pay taxes, and that it is the small and medium-sized enterprises that are developing value-added in this country. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: We have no discharge at all!]] That is why there is also this clear relief for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have not needed the opposition to ensure that there are small and medium-sized enterprises, we have been doing this policy consistently for five years, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Calls and calls between Deputies Dr. Matznetter and Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Therefore: Tax quota: significantly lower than in your time and hence discharge – that is the manuscript of this budget; Debts: significantly lower than in your time; Deficit: significantly lower than in your time. On the other hand, higher employment and more purchasing power for the population. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You don't believe that yourself!]] I believe that I am convinced, therefore, that my last appeal to you if I may address it to you: Ladies and gentlemen! We are in an upturn phase, in an upturn phase, which is borne by exports in 2004. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and the Freeman]] I would like to ask you that we ask ourselves the question beyond the party political boundaries: Is it possible for us to make this export-borne upturn sustainable for the years 2005 and 2006? This will depend on whether people are willing to spend their money on consumption – therefore, the biggest increase in purchasing power in the next year for ten years – and whether the businesses are willing to invest. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You should have done something to strengthen the purchasing power earlier!]] That means that it must be an investment and a consumption-driven upturn. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a common responsibility, because economy is a matter of psychology. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No, you're responsible for that!]] And this is my request to all the political groups in this House: For the next two years, we have forecast a higher growth for Austria than on average in the European Union, but it has to be a common concern to say that there is a perspective, there is a hope that we have created a great substance in this country, and now we should all work to ensure that Austria can make the best possible use of this substance – also for the next generation. Then, I think, we will prepare a super route for Austria with a good budget 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14946	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e14964	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After this wonderful presentation of the Austrian situation, we could actually go home immediately and congratulate each other on how well we are doing. It's just not like that. You yourself admitted, Minister, that this weak growth is export-based and that, despite this government, the Austrian companies are able to meet this demand from abroad in Austria on the basis of the diligence of employees and good management. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That's it!]] Domestic demand remains dramatically weak. We all know this, and that is also the reason why economic growth in Austria is below average. But I would like to point out a few points about budget cosmetics. If you look at the once-income revenue in this 2005 budget and compare the approach with 2004 then you notice that these once-incomes amount to seven times that of 2004. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Where did you get this?]] – I can show you that, I use your numbers. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You don't even know your own budget!]] This is the sevenfold. Now there is a great example: If one assumes that the approach of 2004 would have remained the same, then the federal deficit rate would increase from 2.3 to 2.7 percentage points, as measured by GDP. In other words, in 2006, we have a huge problem again, because structurally, of course, we do not put in place the appropriate measures. And for that, Minister of State, you are responsible. You're really making budget cosmetics here. The second point to be mentioned in this context is the concealment of popular wealth. I can't always fuck it, I have to say this. With VA-Tech, voestalpine and Böhler Uddeholm you have left an upset potential of 258 million € this year by choosing the wrong time. That is the fact, and you are also responsible for this because this money is missing in the budget. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Without it it would be even higher!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Bad owner!]] This is at the expense of the Austrian taxpayers. This is privatization diletantism in particular. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now it's still coming. The masterpiece of this dilettantism now stands out with VA technology. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The damage has already occurred!]] This is the “masterpiece. ” You, Minister Grasser, led the largest Austrian technology group to battle. There is currently preparing the largest enemy takeover that Austria has ever experienced, and you have opened the doors and all the gates. They sacrifice thousands of jobs here. Why do I say that? – This takeover, as it is now present, violates almost all the points you have in the ÖIAG Privatisation Act or in the Council of Ministers decision of 8. ==References== They are against, for example, job security or development. Hochleitner has announced to disband the Group's headquarters to release 70 workers. Professor Aeginger, member of the ÖVP until 2000, says: The central is power, and where the power is, are also the most important corporate positions. - You give that up. He has announced to sacrifice at least 350 jobs for Weiz. It's not security, it's not expansion, it's destruction! However, they also violate the Austrian capital market, Mr. Minister. Siemens has announced that the group will be delisted. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Executive Director Ederer, what does he say about this?]] - Listen! You're gonna get on it. Especially grotesk is that then Hochleitner still says that the Group is not viable. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's what the Eders said!]] This says a 16.7 percent share of the stock market and thus actually talks down this entire group. That means he's hurting the rest of the shareholders. This is a “bean culture ” that you should not really like! One last point in this context: One also violates the point of high proceeds. There are now calculations that the VA-Tech is not worth courses of 55, but 85. And the funny thing about this story is that a quarter of the purchase price of Austrian taxpayers will be paid by using Siemens' group taxation option, and this will be paid again by Austrian taxpayers. [[Abg. Eder: With the minister, everything pays the taxpayers!]] This is actually a policy that really is to scream. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will speak today on behalf of the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor and you, Federal Minister. [[Abg. Eder: That's no use! That's all meat!]] You promised two months ago – and I could quote you here from your speech – that you will practically make the protective coat for VA technology. The bowl was quoted as a protective coat-madonna for the VA-tech staff. You said it wouldn't be possible that this was sold. Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to take this opportunity today to secure the Austrian jobs so that you do not have to hear the accusation that you are directly in the FPÖ ranks of the invaders. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15171	Mr Magistrate. Moser's motion for a resolution has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz takes place at the government bank.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Ah, the Secretary of State is now also here! How's Vienna? ... 15.5 percent?]] The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15206	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a special thanks to the officials of the Ministry of Finance, who – which has already been properly carried out by colleagues Kogler – have done excellent work, which is excellent professionals. You have provided us with budget documents for which we can only thank you, ladies and gentlemen! [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP, as well as to representatives of the SPÖ, the Free and the Greens.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] I should like to make the following request at the outset: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President. The statement of reasons is still given in writing. I would ask you to take this request into consideration. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few remarks on my part about the budget. Firstly, the long-term budget objectives: balanced budget over the economic cycle, a zero deficit is sought for 2008. This was clearly explained by my colleague Dr. Stummvoll and by the Federal Minister for Finance. – A clear goal! Secondly, To reduce the tax rate to 40 percent is a high goal. But we are on the right track, and the intermediate results – if you can say so – give the mid-term balance the impression that it is actually feasible. It's almost a sensation to achieve such a thing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Thirdly, the right focus, i.e. increasing the funding for future investment research, education, infrastructure in order to ensure sustainability, is not a quick process, but a safeguarding of the locations, the headquarters in Austria. Mr Moser, you have asked for something to be supported with your request today, but that is exactly what you, a year ago, criticized at the worst in the times of voest privatisation and presented it as a great accident, namely privatisation! Now this voest-privatization is a success, the employee participation is excellent. Let's enjoy it! We should support such measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: Where is the connection?]] Ladies and gentlemen! There was a privatisation – or can I say, a disaster? – a certain Austrian bank, too large for Austria, was too small for abroad. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, yes!]] [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: Where is the connection?]] If you look at these stock prices or look at your “economic success” where you only said that, I’m just saying “consumer” – not that I’m looking forward to it, really not! Really not! It was a drama, a sad game! That was “economic competence” where you, exclusively from the SPÖ, held responsibility, ladies and gentlemen! We are facing this with our economic success. Mr Matznetter said that there had been praise from the government bank for the budget: No, no, no, no, I don't wonder that any praises come from this side either. [[the speaker points to the lines of the opposition]] This is obviously the eternal ritual between government and opposition. But one thing is clear: Of course, there were also in earlier times – and I expressly mention the finance ministers Edlinger, Klima, Vranitzky, I have also experienced colleagues Salcher here in the house – quite positive accents. No one can and should argue! But the much better accents have been set in recent years, this has been clarified! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You should also compare the same thing with the same thing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Eder: Right! But always!]] The conditions of the economy, the circumstances of the world economy, the economy have changed considerably. With benchmarking within Europe, Austria is cutting off in many areas in this regard, in some areas as the best. We should be happy about this! And this budget is doing the rest of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15386	The amendment tabled by Mr Auer, Mr Prinzhorn, who was just read, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15683	Mrs Sburny has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15702	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! What is really exciting about the speeches of Mr Finanzminister is the question which part of his NLP speech bubble programme he is going to take off. Is it the part “Less Tax Mean More to Life? ” Or is it “All Austrians are relieved!”? It's always exciting what's coming. Today it was again the growth ENP programme, which we have already heard several times. I would like to focus today on the distribution question, because it is always a topic: Who's really being relieved? How is this budget allocated? I would like to examine this on the basis of the revenue, namely an estimate of revenue as contained in the draft budget. On the one hand, the reduction in income tax, i.e. the reduction in employees' income tax, is compared with the reduction in corporate income tax and group taxation, and on the other hand – and in the context of this – I ask the question: What about the distribution between women and men? So: The corporate tax has fallen by 40 percent since 2001, when it reached the highest income of 4.3 billion. 40 percent less income from corporate tax tells you simply and simply that companies in Austria pay less corporate tax by 40 percent! We can only congratulate the Minister of Finance on saying that fraud is a priority – that is really fine! – but that happens completely legally! That is, this loss of income is not a question of fraud, but a question of the laws you make with your black and blue government. And the best fight against fraud won't help you! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Johann Moser.]] In the same period, i.e. in the last four years, in which corporate tax has fallen by 40 percent, income tax has increased by 8.5 percent. In other words, the tax revenue of employees has grown, paying more taxes, while companies pay by 40 percent less. There is therefore a clear burden distribution, a clear set of priorities from this Federal Government! In this budget proposal – and this is what you have to say – the corporate tax reduction, the reduction with 1. January 2005 will enter into force, not yet taken into account. That means that at least € 1 billion, which you will escape by the corporate tax reduction, will be added. One may be excited about how this will affect in 2006 and 2007. [[Abg. Felzmann: You are so anti-economic! That's incredible!]] – What does “economy” mean? You mean, business is just business? I can only tell you: From my point of view, the economy is more: This, of course, also includes workers! [[Abg. Felzmann: Yes! That's right!]] And I just showed you how the comparison looks. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – You just don’t understand it, because it’s obvious to you: Economy is the same business! And that's a little bit! [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Felzmann: No! Give and take!]] Group taxation. You accepted the loss of revenue for 2005 from the Federal Government with €100 million. That is, I would say, ‘ easy. ’ [[Call the SPÖ:Very loose!]] In reality, no one believes that this loss of revenue will remain, and it is already quite a matter of urgency to expect 100 million euros in this respect! Not even the financial officials or employees of the financial administration can somehow estimate this, because the legal situation is such that it is totally unforeseeable and inestimable. In this context, it is also necessary to add that there may be a change of law or judgments at EU level, which will lead to the further strengthening of group taxation or the ‘improvement’ of government in the sense of the government, namely, insofar as deductible may not only be the losses of the first foreign daughters, but also those of the grandchildren and their participations. In this context, there is a process – as reported by the “standard” – that was sought by Marks & Spencer. And if they win it, then exactly the following situation occurs: The consequences will not only be unforeseen, but the whole will assume dimensions that we will only slam each other with our ears, so to speak, in view of the loss of revenue that will come to us. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second point – and I think that is very much related to the distribution, especially with the question of income tax reduction and coking and group taxation – is the question of the gender aspect of this budget. Since 2001, there has been a working group in the Ministry of Finance – and this has to be noted publicly – which deals with the impact of the budget on women and men. This working group has also developed a study on whether the Austrian tax system is gender-neutral. At any rate, I find this to be a very positive point of view that this is happening in the Ministry of Finance. The women and men who have worked on it or who work on it – even in this case in parity – really have to thank them for taking on this work, because it is relatively unthankful, but it is nevertheless a certain pioneer achievement. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, this study shows that the Austrian tax system is in no way gender-neutral, because taxes have a very different impact on women and men. This is also interesting with regard to the current budget or the draft budget, in which the following can be seen in comparison to the 2004 budget: The first stage of the tax reform, particularly in the area of increasing the general amount of deposits, increases the free borders for 13 and 14. Monthly salary, brings an increase for lower incomes. Since women primarily have low incomes, this study, which is perfectly correct; this can be calculated precisely, shows that women have benefited greatly from this first stage of tax reform in relation to men. However, the figure – € 70 per year for women compared to € 55 to € 60 for men – is almost marginal, but please: After all, there is a tendency to try to achieve a balance at least once. In the second stage of the tax reform, higher incomes are also reduced much more so that it can be said that there is a slight reversal, but far from what we need. However, all this – and I come to another point now – concerns only income tax. The much larger fractions of your tax relief, on the other hand, refer to corporate tax and group taxation, where we must note: The ratio to property and wealth between men and women is approximately in Europe – there are no exact figures for this because you refuse to have something like a “reichtum report” created – 90 : 10. In other words, many organizations agree on 90 percent of men's wealth, 10 percent of women's wealth. It is therefore possible to calculate about how tax relief will spread between women and men in the area of enterprises. And one also sees that there is still a very strong disparity that you might at some point take into account by the Federal Government. What we would like for ourselves is that it does not remain that the Ministry of Finance prepares studies, but that in the area of gender mainstreaming a budget is really presented in such a way that one can see how total expenditure and revenue actually affect women and men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15838	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15857	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Moser spoke of the “closure of popular wealth”, as well as of a “dilettantism of special expression”. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: Disbelief!]] Mr. Moser, the fact is that in 1999 the ÖIAG had an asset of €9 billion and debt of €4 billion. – Now ÖIAG’s debt, due to successful privatisation, is €1.6 billion; its assets of €9 billion have been preserved. That is to say, surpluses are being generated today – at the time, on the other hand, subsidies from budget resources have been channelled into these deficient enterprises. You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, will continue to do nothing to try to make this government, this budget, this budgetary policy, this financial policy sick, resort to socialist recipes of the past – but this is obviously the only ‘alternative’ that you can offer – and to insure the people. It is amazing that Mr Matznetter, in the first part of his contribution to the debate, made the statement that hardly anyone was sitting on the government bank, therefore, according to Matznetter, there was no interest in the budget debate. – I can only say: Matznetter is the budget speaker of the Social Democratic Party, and he is not here now either. I also regard this as the ‘enhanced interest’ of the budget speaker of the Social Democrats not to attend this debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Mr Matznetter referred to the budget deficit and meant how devastating it would be to have such a thing in the face of an increasing economic situation. And Colle Matznetter has called Federal Minister Grasser “double budget-political spirit drivers” – literally. – Since I have to ask myself what term – according to the ideas of Mr Matznetter – would be applicable to the socialist finance ministers of the past? I know, Madam President – no, Mr President! Sorry! [[Abg. Mandak: That doesn't matter! That happens to women often!]] – Madam President Prammer was at the Bureau before! So I know you don't like such comparisons. What term could be imagined? . I know that in the presidential it was decided that it was forbidden to use a particular term for the former Minister of Finance Edlinger, with whom it is obviously going to go into the budget history, here – perhaps still in private use – but it is clear that in all the 30 years in which socialist finance ministers have designed financial policy, it is not a single thing – not a single one! – Budget that has not shown a deficit! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Was there the ÖVP?]] – Of course you were in a government coalition with the ÖVP! I note that for 30 years there has been a finance minister from your ranks – and always a corresponding deficit! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] It is true that there is now also a deficit in the order of 1.9 percent, but the tax reform – the tax reform II – is included in the order of €2.5 billion, and that without counter-financing, something that cannot be determined for you. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Who believes, my colleague!]] I know you don't want to believe that. They also do not want to share in the success that this Federal Government will achieve. The budget is always viewed by the Social Democrats in absolute terms: The highest debt in this Republic, the budget... – Mr. colleague, no one will ever come to mind this shame! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You reached! Congratulations!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can be proud, colleague. For over 30 years, your party – and now I say it again – has set up finance ministers who could say every year: As a Socialist Minister of Finance, I have managed to achieve the highest absolute debt in this Republic. – You can be really proud of that! But I don't know anyone who's ever reported a surplus. You? - I don't think so. You differentiate, you focus on how you need it. For example, in the budget chapter on national defence, it was said that, according to Mrs. Schasching, it is the lowest budget measured by gross domestic product. You understand your craftsmanship, and you believe that the population falls in on it. I'm telling you, the bow's overstretched! You can do this once, but don't go home with the same shame for six weeks – as you do! The population is not stupid. The fact is that Austria is excellent in international comparison that Austria is an excellent economic and work location. I do not consider this statistically, that is, very dynamic – as Mr Kogler did in the end called for a dynamic approach – that is, according to the respective rates of change – and that, in spite of the 135 billion debt and the enormously high tax and tax rate, which in 1999 or the takeover of government responsibility in 2000, was 44.8%. We look forward to good times! We will achieve a zero deficit again, and we will also have the tax rate – everything speaks for it! – at the latest in 2010, probably earlier, lower to less than 40 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15981	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e15999	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Right ahead: I will allow myself to concentrate on Austria and talk a little less about Greece. Essential questions of every budget – Mr Sburny has already mentioned this – are distribution issues, i.e. the incidence of expenditure and revenue. I mean, the budget hearing has clearly demonstrated that this budget, as well as the budget accompanying law, is even further intensifying the existing distribution gap. For example, the negative tax structure is intensifying – despite historically high tax and tax rates! A single view of taxes already shows this picture; only a few gross data have to be obtained. From 2000 to 2005, for example, wage tax revenue rose by almost 18 percent, sales tax revenue by just under 12 percent, that of excise taxes – a particularly regressive type of tax – by 29.3 percent. On the other hand, the income of corporate tax fell by 7 percent and that of income tax by almost 15 percent. The current tax reform will clearly continue to worsen this situation by the individual measures taken here, even though the Minister of Finance – and I hope I understood it correctly – has announced in the Budget Committee between the lines that he will take back the corporate tax reduction. He mentioned that he wanted less state redistribution according to the foundry principle. – Well, what is the corporate tax reduction? That is precisely the state redistribution according to the principle of foundry! So we are expecting your amendment here, Mr State Secretary, at second reading. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On the other hand – and this makes me a little skeptical again, because here the government parties will actually follow their own proposal to reduce corporate taxation again – the government parties boast that Austria has now overtaken some countries in terms of the attractiveness of corporate taxes. – That’s like postulating, a tax competition down is per se something economically valuable. I would therefore suggest: Just make a very different request, make a request that all corporate taxes in Austria should be abolished! It is not just a matter of overtaking a few countries, but of beating them all. On the other hand, there is obviously enough money for other measures, such as the Eurofighters. If, as we discussed earlier, the Eurofighters may not be able to get off the ground because they cannot fly and move only on the ground, then there would be the possibility that the ÖVP Vienna, for example, uses these Eurofighters as night buses, although only two passengers fit into this “autobus” – but that is enough for the number of voters of the ÖVP in Vienna anyway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But also the growth effect of the budget, which essentially stems from the tax measures, is not particularly favourable. In fact, this growth effect is forecast to be a multiplier of saying and writing 0.4, not of us, by the economic researchers! This also ignores the economic fact that growth and multiplier effects, for example, would have been much higher in public expenditure, in the area of infrastructure, about 1.5 or even in the case of tax cuts in the lower-income third at 0.9. That is to say, in the final effect, one could have achieved the forecast growth effect with a significantly lower use of resources and thus also with a significantly lower deficit or, vice versa, with the existing use of resources now if one does not obviously want to make a client policy. For the illustration only: In 2005 Austria will say and write about public investment – again and write! – 56 percent below the EU average. By 56 percent! Moreover, you should also be clear that you are not particularly contributing to the Lisbon strategy. Back to the starting point, to the distribution question. On the occasion of the debate on the budget accompanying law, the Minister of Finance has said literally: This federal government is the natural friend of capital. To clarify: This is nothing objectionable at all, but it would have been better for me to say: This federal government is the natural friend of the citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16074	The next speaker was Mr Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16093	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Dear friends!]] Dear friends – some of them in here at least! He's back! In this case, I mean Dr. Matznetter. Once he sits at the front in the role of the party chairman, then back in the back; he is everywhere to be found. But what I noticed in this debate – it was already mentioned – is: There are no alternatives! Although it is found that it is not all good, it is not all bad, but essentially the socialist representation looks just like that – the social democratic representation, thanks – that one refers to it time and again: [[Call the SPÖ:The Social Democratic!]] Do you always compare the budgets of 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999 with the No-Situation, with what Günther Stummvoll said in 1999? It has already been found: You can't compare this to the other day. But if you compare it, you should already see: At that time, we had relatively high growth, but not because we have adopted economic measures, but because we have benefited from EU enlargement. The problem was that despite such high growth, we had such high budget deficits and such a high, dynamic increase in government debt. Today, the situation is already clearer. At the beginning of 2000, we discussed that the EU wanted to write us a blue letter because we did not comply with the Maastricht criteria. Now – the Minister of Finance has reported on this – the opposite is the case: We are attested that we will have better growth rates than the EU average. This is a serious difference; once tried – then you can see it in practice! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And a second: Mr Kogler, there's a message from someone who's a little more often and can't stop it, but you came to the speaker's desk yesterday and you said: Tomorrow I come with this consolidated presentation and will provide you with the evidence, inflation and otherwise as adjusted, absolute and relative. – Today have She said: Thank you, the officials of the ministry are actually not working so badly. The announced comparison you want has not yet been made. [[Abg. Neudeck: Are all from the SPÖ era!]] By the way, Mrs Sburny: What do you have? Are you actually for a picture of the companies? They're talking about the past few years and they're saying, It's crazy how the Köst revenue has developed, they're falling! Have you ever had the idea and compared it to economic growth? Have you not noticed that the Köst also depends on whether to make profits or not? Have all of this You're not in a relationship? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I must say that you have a very one-sided picture of entrepreneurship, and also of the distribution of income tax, wage tax and the like. This applies equally to Mr Moser, Mr Hoscher and some others who have spoken in this debate. Look You have to look at the structure of the wage tax! Who then pays the wage tax? – The performance-oriented. More than 50 percent pay no more wage tax! And there are also corresponding reliefs in the income tax field. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I want to go out to something else. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Yeah, just scream a little, but that doesn't make anything better. As has been said, I would like to say something else: Why was it good not to overstretch consumption at a time when economic growth was not particularly strong? – Germany has also seen this as a problem. - Why was that good? Because such reliefs would have gone exactly in the wrong area, namely in the field of savings and possibly in foreign consumption. Now you do exactly the right thing: We have stimulated investment with proper economic packages, and what has been the result? Not, as Mr Hoscher has now said, that we are behind the EU, but we have increased by 8 percent in 2003 with the increase in the investment premium in equipment investment. In the EU, a 1 per cent decline was recorded. What is the consequence of these investments? – The fact that we will now, after all, also have jobs according to employment, and because the wage sum increases, we will also have correspondingly higher tax revenue, but on the other hand, each individual will also have more income available. And that is why, not my opinion, but that of the experts, domestic consumption will also rise. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: He's been limping for a year and a half!]] Again: Right, at the right time, the right measures! You, Mr Matznetter, are crying constantly at the wrong time on the wrong tombstone, and that is a problem for your entire policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16206	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16225	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The right measures at the right time! – What is currently read on the local pages? We should not only hold general economic policy debates in budgetary negotiations, but we should also work out how budgetary policy has a concrete impact on the ground. What to read on the local pages? What was the headline like in recent weeks? – Closing of post offices! Mr Finz, look at your budget! There are dividends from Post AG to the Minister of Finance. The one hand takes and expects Post AG to be on the other hand still able to provide the services on site to the full extent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] The problem is that, yes, you, Mr Wittauer, are in the transport sector and, above all, Mr Mainoni, you are a great announcer: There will be no more closures! Don't you know your own Universal Service Regulation? Don't you know the framework conditions for postal service services in Austria on site? You know exactly that Mrs. Forstinger has dealt with a very lax and very liberal universal service regulation. You know exactly that Minister Gorbach every day would have the opportunity, together with Mr Mainoni, to make sure that these services are still provided on-site. He just needs to change the Universal Service Regulation. For this reason, I believe that in a budget debate, it is also very likely that public services will be discussed and voted on by consumers in rural areas. I would therefore also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's exactly what you're saying you want to do. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I will see how you behave today in the vote – probably exactly the opposite to what you always say in the public. Please, we have to leave this course at last! We need an honest budget policy, we need honest dividend policies, which do not at the same time make political demands to Post AG, which are probably not fulfilled on the basis of all the conditions of a stock company, but on which it is about profitability, which needs to be cross-subsidized, which practically needs to be ensured by income in some lucrative areas also to provide rural areas. Against this background I appeal to you: Perhaps you will jump over your shadow and agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16303	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Moser, drawn up by Mrs Moser, Mrs Moser, Mrs Freundes, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16360	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16379	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Do you know what a flipper is? – This is someone who controls a zigzag course, that is someone who is not fish, not meat, not hot and not cold. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's the cap!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The stupid! Where's that stupid?]] I am not thinking now of Mr. Kerry, I am not even thinking of my colleague Cap – who is not in the hall at all – with his certainly exciting top-on-one-and-on-one fashion, but I am thinking of the SPÖ and its financial, tax and economic policy. I would now like to present this prototypically in the ‘Mastermind’, the colleague Matznetter, and in his relationship with the modern and certainly very appropriate corporate taxation that we have done. ==References== In February of this year, Mr Matznetter stated in the “socialist correspondence” that “tax gifts to large companies are getting more”. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: There is no longer any “socialist correspondence”!]] Group taxation is added to the Köst reduction. “The tax gifts to large companies therefore amount not only to the nine percent to which the corporate tax (Köst) was reduced, but to the group tax would lead to the fact that the companies in Austria no longer have to pay Köst, underlined the SPÖ budget speakers.” And hit it: 18. March: Matznetter notes that the cost reduction and group taxation "is therefore only favourable to those companies which have high profits and low levels of employment. ‘In this way, companies that employ less, less research, less investment’, underlined Matznetter. ‘For him, it is ‘incomprehensible how such a thing can be done’. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Right!]] ==References====External links== In May 2004, Matznetter criticized this tax reform and noted that it was a tax paradise for 900 large companies. - So far, so good. This would still be consistent, if not correct, and not economically comprehensible, but then the “Press” of the 6th century. On October 1, the so-called "Mastermind" is suddenly to be read – it is a report on the new SPÖ's economic programme, which has just been fluffed a few times, but has not yet been flipped –: “The reduction of Köst by the government of Schüsel to 25 percent, however, does not want to make SPÖ any more reversible than the group-friendly group taxation applicable from 2005 onwards.” [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Read on, please!]] And because you don’t have to believe the paper, I’ve gotten this program that’s “Starting Clear for Austria”. You wonder why the SPÖ has not yet started after four years – but you need to keep a target and a plan. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: A state captain, all country elections up to the Styria!]] It's under corporate tax all of a sudden: The corporate tax of 25 percent is to be maintained – the SPÖ's economic programme. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Nominal!]] And it's even there: While the group taxation for corporations introduced from 2005 onwards must be observed in its impact, it must be maintained. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: It's to evaluate!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo!]] – That’s what you usually call a flip flicker, a zigzag policy. [[Abg. May. Regulator: Purzelbaum!]] Now you have a SPÖ that has come to the right conclusion, where we have been for a long time, namely that this Köst reduction to 25 percent plus group taxation strengthen the economic location of Austria, strengthen competitiveness and create jobs, colleague Matznetter. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No, you understand...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You don't understand the difference between no-minal and effective!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Unfortunately abroad, not in Austria!]] The result is the SPÖ in a zigzag course without credibility, without competence in the economy and without clarity in the profile – on the other hand, the government, consistently, clearly, predictablely and successfully. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: More jobs abroad, less domestic!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: A fool!]] That is why these tax reform, this budget and this government are good for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16628	The next speaker was Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16647	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying, and I thank Mr Ikrath for quoting only Matznetter for five minutes. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] This also shows effect. The social democrats' programmes appear to be also effective among the economic experts of the ÖVP, and Mr Ikrath has also drawn a number of correct conclusions. [[Abg. Neudeck: You have already conquered the last row with your program!]] Mr Mitterlehner, I too come to speak to you. I very much appreciate you, Mr Mitterlehner, but in two things I must contradict you. They meant that 50 percent of employees did not pay a wage tax. – This is not a good news, but only shows that these people are very little in income, in part-time employment or only hours in employment. And that is exactly the point I am always criticising, because jobs are not the same job. And those people who don't pay a wage tax can hardly still live from what they earn, can hardly pay their home, their rent, their energy costs and so on. And that's a problem. You also asked: Where does the SPÖ have alternatives? – The SPÖ has good alternatives, one of which has just quoted Mr Ikrath for 5 minutes. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Yes, where?]] We also have an alternative to the economic programme, we have alternatives to infrastructure, we have alternatives to education, we have alternatives to housing policy. We also have alternatives to pension reform, which we will discuss tomorrow. [[Abg. May. Control: Stay on the ground!]] And if you want to know where we also put these alternatives into practice: in Vienna! I could see a daily newspaper that Vienna alone contributes € 58 billion to the gross domestic product. This is already a huge sum that Vienna is doing here, considering that Upper Austria is at the second place with €35 billion. 58 billion € Vienna, second place with 35 billion € Upper Austria, and the other federal states follow. In other words, the Vienna economic engine keeps a significant part of what you like as an Austrian economy. You have to say that clearly. Why not? You can also call things by name here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why is that so in Vienna? – Because a Chamber President Nicely cooperates very well with a Mayor Häupl. And here it is clear: With Häupl and Nice Vienna got muscles. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Häupl stops nice!]] It is nothing bad if the economy and the population in Vienna are doing well. [[Abg. Neudeck: But only on the hands of the ginger, not on the hands of the giver!]] Even so, you can work, too, this is an example, you don't always have to mutter and cry on the part of the government parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, Mr Finz, are, when it comes to Vienna, one of the greatest regrets, but then, when it comes to the Federation, it is not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I come to the comparisons. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer, whom I very much appreciate – it is not that we have enmity here, I appreciate all the Members – has meant that we always have to compare the same thing with the same thing. [[Abg. May. A good man!]] Okay, let's start. Germany – Austria. – They put so much emphasis on our figures against Germany and praise us for having so little deficit and so on. Only: In Germany, the world looks a little different. [[Abg. Bookbooker: 22 billion deficit!]] In Germany, for example, the entire Deutsche Bahn with its entire debt is included in the budget. In Germany, the entire German road and motorway network is included in the budget, i.e. the total budget. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: With us too!]] In Germany, too, many other things are included in the budget, which is not included in the budget, so the comparison of Austria – Germany. [[Abg. May. Controller: All that is limping is a comparison!]] If we were to count the train debts, the ASFINAG debts, the BIG debts to the budget, then we would also have 3.4 percent deficit. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If you compare, you have to compare correctly. We have taken certain things out of the budget, hoping to earn 51 percent over the market, but we must first consider whether this will work. We'll see if it works, but it's just that right now. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister, when he was still here, almost euphorically spoke of what we in Austria have gotten all positive. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What happened to him?]] – The truth looks different. The truth is that between 2000 and 2002 only 31 burdens were imposed on the population, such as the energy tax, motor insurance tax, tobacco tax, motorway vignette doubled, passport, identity card costs twice as high as before – now I read that this is getting more expensive again because a fingerprint has to be included in the passport, and that costs up by 30 € more – self-retaining in hospital stays, and so on, ladies and gentlemen. The truth also looks that pension cuts have already been made in 2003. Tomorrow we will discuss further pension cuts. [[Abg. May. Regulator: Harmonization of pensions!]] Health insurance contributions for employees increased, mineral oil tax increased, natural gas tax increased – only on the topic of energy prices. What has been lowered by the companies has the Minister, even more so, so that now in Vienna, Mr Finz, gas prices will rise – and that is what you have to answer and not we! [[Interim remark by State Secretary Dr. Finz]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's the situation we're dealing with. Today's salary with officials: 2.3 percent, “gratulatory” – inflation rate: 2.6%. What does that mean under the line? – 0.3% smooth expropriation of officials! I “gratulate” on such conclusions!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16864	The next speaker was Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16899	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Perhaps you will calm down again, Mr Eder, because I am now going to bring out of this pit a couple of speeches of debate and perhaps also take a look at Vienna again in order to re-examine Mr Eder's statements. Right at the beginning of Vienna. If you say we have taxes and taxes, and what do I know, I have to say, Look They ask for public transport and for the garbage charges in Vienna, because they have been dramatically increased in recent times, and this will not at all please the Viennans. Budget documents: In contrast to the 2005 proposal of the Federal Government, the Vienna budget documents are not transparent at all, have no openness at all or close to citizens. [[Abg. Eder: Because you can't read it! You have to be able to read a budget too!]] As the members of the opposition are always talking about the gender effects in the budget, I would like to point out that Wiener Budget has no gender aspects at all, and this, although the responsibility of the city government of Vienna is borne by half of women! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now to the tax reform stories that came from the opposition in part. I would like to know how Mrs. Sburny's company tax colleague, when she makes a comparison between the property of women and men, 90 to 10, says that 90 percent of men benefit from it. She should tell me how she gets that. The capital companies are legal persons and neither female nor male. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Maybe because it's called yesterday, there's also entrepreneurs inside: After all, one third of all self-employed women are, and the trend is rising. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Even if you don't believe that the wage tax is falling. But it must be said that salary levels among the social partners are also increasing and, of course, salaries are also increasing. Of course, more than half have less income and no tax to pay, but there are also the service providers. Mr Mitterlehner has already said that we have Managing Directors, we have managers among the payroll taxpayers. So you can't say the wage tax has to fall a lot more. That's totally irrelevant. If you also look at the sales tax – this is the one that is increasing – then you can see that the tax reform is already a way of buying power for all citizens. And this is also an essential factor in tax reform, a right step and the right goal – without any alternatives from SPÖ, but with initiative and with alternatives from the ÖVP politicians.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16958	The next speaker was Mr Steier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e16979	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, countries, cities and municipalities have contributed significantly to the federal budget targets. Unfortunately, one cannot claim that in the reverse case. The Federal Government's revenue from substantial tax increases for the so-called budget consolidation was only inadequately involved in the countries. The 2005 tax reform also brings much more money to the federal government, while the countries, cities and municipalities also lose their taxes. In short: Countries, cities and municipalities are the great losers of recent years, losers also because the infrastructure is increasingly thinned especially in rural areas. Due to various savings measures, district courts, post offices and general army posts have disappeared in many Austrian communities in recent years. 650 post offices have closed in recent years. The next wave of post office closures is currently at the door. According to the latest information, approximately 20 to 25 percent of the currently 1 640 branches, due to what is called lapidar, are expected to be highly deficient due to low customer demand. Therefore, the closure of up to 400 post offices could threaten. Clearly, the aim of the non-post office communities is pursued here, so that the inhabitants of the rural area have to travel to the next post office for miles. This, in turn, and this too is very negative, is contrary to the thinning of public transport in rural areas. As Mr Moser said earlier, the Minister for Infrastructure would have enough opportunity to establish a minimum size of the branch network through the Universal Service Regulation. Internal security. – In the field of internal security, the total number of offences was below 500 000 in 1999, and the investigation rate was well over 50 percent. Over 3 percent of the total budget was spent on internal security. Only five years later, the situation is as follows: Many more than 3,000 plant sites have been dismantled, 119 gene army posts have been abandoned and many proven structures have been broken down in the field of internal security. We are confronted with increasing crime rates and falling awareness rates. Ladies and gentlemen! The share of the internal security budget in the 2005 total budget is below 3%, the increase in the security executive budget is significantly lower than that for the total internal security chapter. The subjective sense of security caused by your policy is falling. The consequences of this policy for the affected population, especially in rural areas, are: The presence of the executive goes back, and the post offices are closed. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Last week, the Minister of Finance said in his speech that the FAG negotiations had taken place against a very difficult background. How true!, you can only note that. Negotiations on financial compensation have once again shown how counterproductive it can be to link completely different issues – in concrete terms: the reform of health care with the negotiations on the Financial Balance Act. We support a fair and fair distribution of fiscal resources in the context of financial compensation. What we are not available for, however, is that the financial compensation is linked to a new tax package. Last week, the Minister of Finance also stressed the “income to an exit” from the graduated population key, which is a very important step towards strengthening the financial strength of small communities. We hope that only we lack faith. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The completeness for another position: Again and again, ÖVP has made a confession to the voluntary organizations, for example the Fire Department. However, in practical implementation you tend to follow your announcements. An example of this: Tax exemption in case of acquisition of equipment for the use of firearms. Ladies and gentlemen! If you continue this policy, further cuts in the health system, further tax and tax increases and pension reductions will follow, although not even the effects of the 2003 pension reform have been digested. The so-called pension harmonisation, which will be on the agenda of the National Council tomorrow, will intensify the existing injustices between the professional groups, continue the impoverishment, ask the ASVG insured persons already affected by the 2003 pension reduction reform to the cash register and impose financial compensation on the countries, cities and communities for your policy. We say: No, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17046	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Liechtenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17064	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! After 30 years of social-democratic chancellors and finance ministers, a very difficult heritage has certainly been taken over. What we need now and what we also implement is a modern, forward-looking tax law. Key steps to this goal have already been taken in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I heard from a friend, Member of the European Parliament, about the move of the Slovak Members to the new European Parliament: With joy, sometimes joy, they referred to the homepage of the American Embassy in Bratislava, its capital, which awarded the best score with the headline “investors’ paradise”. Capital from all over the world flows into this Mecca for entrepreneurs – sometimes called it – at the eastern border of Austria, 50 kilometres from here. The reduction of taxes on the flat-tax rate of 19 percent makes Slovakia a magnet. Growth is far above the European average – that is, American dynamics on the Danube, in our vicinity. However, we have already done a number of things here in order to get investment into the country, namely in the area of corporate taxation; the cost reduction was absolutely necessary in order to get any investment at all. Freedom instead of equality! The Slovaks are already familiar with this U.S. success recipe and are based on it. In contrast to most European entrepreneurs, American businesses are mostly more mobile. Scientific research is freer. Lower taxes are power supply for the operation. Re-foundation is easier, and the economy is rarely in bureaucratic shackles. In America, Washington, there is the Cato Institute and the Heritage Foundation. In the Cato Institute, which deals primarily with the economy and where the Slovak Finance Minister Ivan Miklos also worked, there are three halls: the Hayek Hall, the Schumpeter Hall and the Mises Hall – the main representatives of the Vienna School of the National Economics. The envy is behind the demand for equality. Especially when it comes to tax progression, it is about satisfying feelings of envy. High taxes, however, consume energy. Those who are led by envy rise to the progress brake. [[Abg. Mandak: That could also be called social justice, you know? Have you heard that before? That's a strange word!]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This is a baroque performance! That's from baroque!]] Experience teaches: The lower the rates and the thresholds of the bureaucracy, the more people feel that performance is worth it. It depends on courage for freedom! The decommissioning of creative forces acts as a vitamin cure for the economy. We create dynamics with prosperity, and I believe that is one of our very important ways of doing so. Austria is in the middle of Europe, and today the economic issue is also largely a European but also a global issue. Finally, I can say something about companies: Top training at the innovation location Austria – this is also necessary! The commitment of the President of the Industrial Union, Veit Sorger, to top universities and excellence in science, teaching and research has triggered a broad discussion on an important topic of the future both for Austria's innovation location and for European development. The positioning of industry for the best has been positive in politics – also in the large opposition party SPÖ – and the IV proposal to set up a task force – "University of Excellence" – has been taken up. I believe that it is also very important that we have real specialists, who are really leading in the economy and can move the economy forward, and that Austria – located in the centre of Europe – is again an economic starting point and thus also needs the strength that Vienna, the centre of Europe, needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17136	The next speaker was Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17155	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I cannot let go of what the Minister of Finance has said today. It was also spoken of as facts and facts. The Minister of Finance has said that the government is pursuing a consistent policy for SMEs. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: Yes!]] Mr State Secretary, the fact is: In many rural regions, there are no close-up suppliers. The baker, the butcher, the merchant, the trader, the retailer is missing. [[Interlocutory note by State Secretary Dr. Finz.]] So, please, where is the consistent policy for SMEs when, on the one hand, SMEs die away and on the other hand shoot the wholesale chains out of the ground? The Minister of Finance has also spoken of consumer-driven policies and has said that we should help people buy more. – However, there are price increases in food, in bread, milk, fruit, vegetables, in heating, diesel and petrol – and now the reliefs are added. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In addition, there is uncertainty, fears about the workplace and job losses. Faith Do you really think that due to the wage tax reform, people are now forgetting all this, investing heavily and consuming heavily?– That's what we're going to have to look at! Again, back to the facts and facts: The fact is that the European Union and Austria have also said that by 2010 the EU and thus Austria will become the fastest growing economic block in the world. There is a need – only attached to the jobs – for around 20 million jobs. It is necessary... – Growth must come first! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Growth!]] More money is needed for infrastructure and above all more money for education and training. I also address adult education in concrete terms. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What happened? – There was no expansion of the infrastructure, on the contrary: We'll break down, trains will be stopped. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Education trains!]] – Yes, that is necessary! Not only can everything happen in the central area, but it must also be possible for the regions to live, and workers must be able to get there. Capacing Here you go! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Not all of them live in the big city, and it also lives Austria not only from the big city. [[Abg. Kainz: Good luck!]] From a broadband offensive, nothing can be seen far and wide in the rural regions. There are also SMEs there, but there are also larger businesses there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] To destroy the infrastructure, because the Federal Chancellor is there – now he is not sitting in his place, but perhaps he hears me –: [[Abg. Wittauer: But don't bring the mail now!]] Post offices on the example of the district of Braunau with 46 municipalities. The target is nine post offices for 100 000 inhabitants. Estimated Members of the Government Party! And I also ask the Federal Chancellor to accept this issue. This is also an infrastructure for people in rural regions. It can't be! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: So we can't confirm this information!]] And now on adult education and the money provided for adult education: In concrete terms, there is an increase of €196 000 compared with 2003. In total, it is €11 700 000. Ladies and gentlemen! Where does the adult education focus? – Nothing is foreseen in the field of vocational orientation, and we do not have the opportunity to grant scholarships for adults either. We are constantly confronted with closures, operating sales, relocations: in the electrical sector, in the electronics sector, in the clothing, leather and wood industries. – People feel it very soon and want to re-orientate and re-train before they are unemployed. This is not possible at the moment. These are the alternatives of the SPÖ that you repeatedly demand: We ask you to implement it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17294	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17314	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to deal with a very encouraging source of our financing today, namely the declines from the European Union, which are quite neat. I am referring to the funds coming back from the EAGGF to Austria, for example. The next year is 1 188 million euros. These are funds that flow into agriculture, which are necessary as compensation payments and for which many benefits are to be provided. – They are service payments and compensation payments to farmers. These funds may come because the services are provided because the agricultural chambers do great things in their consultation and because the agricultural market Austria is the best central and settlement point in Europe, which European funds are allowed to disburse. The charges experienced by Austria are so minimal that they are practically negligible because good work is being done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is particularly important for Austria. It brings a lot of money. As far as agriculture is concerned, we are even net recipients in European terms, which is a benefit to our economy. Now you could say that agriculture costs a lot of money. Considering agriculture in the European comparison and the European Union as a whole, there are some interesting figures. All European budgets together, we will spend €85.4 billion in agriculture next year. That's a big sum. For this we get quality of life, fresh, healthy products and a comprehensible production. If we count together European total expenditure in another area, for example in the case of military, defence and arms, we come to €180 billion, which is 1.9 percent of gross domestic product. This is more than twice as much – two and a half times as much – and you see: Security is a bit worth it, but agriculture may also cost a little. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You should have said that at the defense budget! That would've fit!]] The nice thing is: In Austria, both are in lot. We have safety and good products, safety and beautiful landscapes, and that is already gratifying. This morning I went from Ballhausplatz to Parliament, and I saw a beautiful rainbow. It was fresh air and sunshine, it was wonderful. I was looking forward to the day and to my colleagues. I have then seen that the rainbow is touching the ground again with Parliament, and you know, at the foot of the rainbow is always the treasure. This treasure is in good hands with us, with our Federal Government and with our Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17374	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17392	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr Schultes! The fact that the Federal Government is a treasure for you is that you are not aware of it, but the Austrian legislation is housed in Parliament and not the Federal Government. – As far as I am concerned. I am glad that the Federal Chancellor is here today. Normally, if you listen carefully, you would have to start the speeches like this: In the last 30 years... – In the last 30 years, there has been no finance minister who has created its own brand: KHG, and he just took care of himself in advertising. He spent enough money on it, that's clear. For a while, people have also taken it off, but now people are pretty slow to notice that this brand is actually well applied, but it is relatively empty in content. For example, people have come to see that they have been heavily burdened in the years since 2000 and that the tax reform does not even give them back the burdens, the expenses that have been taken away from them in the first five years. Federal Chancellor, unfortunately. If you look at the corresponding list in the “profile”, you will find that the people in Austria have taken over €1.516 billion, including the pension reform, so that the Minister of Finance can sell well. And people notice that they have less and less money in their pocket. It is very self-contained when Mr Mitterlehner says that those who pay wage tax are performance providers. And then he says: 50 percent of workers pay no wage tax. These people will be very grateful to you, because you refer to those who make so little money that they don't pay a wage tax, so as a non-performance provider, Mr Mitterlehner! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The people who do not pay a wage tax are also worried about their jobs. I always hear that Austria's economic location is protected by this tax reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] I read in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten), Mr Murauer – you are Upper Austriaer, you will have read it today – acutely endangered jobs in Upper Austria. And then seven companies are listed, I don't read them now. For six companies more than 700 jobs are gone by next year. This can be read in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten! ” And then there's: VA-Tech: The takeover by Siemens will also cost jobs in Upper Austria. Mr Bundeskanzler, I have one more question to ask you if I may allow this to happen at the end of this debate. Exactly you have said that you are in favour of the ÖIAG staying on board in the interests of the company VA-Tech. What is your opinion on this today? Are you still in favour of the ÖIAG being on board at VA-Tech? – We would be pleased with an answer on this matter. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! People have also seen that the KHG brand will spoil their health. And you've come up with a lot of clever ideas: For the first time in history, as far as I know, the financial compensation has been linked to health funding. That's very exciting. [[Abg. Rädler: Thank God!]] The financial compensation is one thing – I hope you know what we are talking about. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was the wish and demand of the countries, Mr Cot!]] Health and its financing are the other. This has now been linked and can be said because the countries and communities are a barrel without soil, we need to make more money on increasing health charges so that we can finance it. [[Abg. Scheibner: They asked for this, Mr. Cot!]] Now you all rejoice that this solution to the financial balance is the greatest ever. The solid small communities are preferred. [[Abg. Rädler: Yes, thank God!]] My community also has such a preference, Mr. Cot. I looked at how this looks for my community. According to the proposal we have received from the officials of the Upper Austrian government, who are by the way outstanding officials, my community gets around €38 300 more. Great, that's a really sensible financing. [[Abg. Wheeler: A calculation error!]] However, it is not said that the national levy will increase by €20 000 next year, that the health care contribution will increase by €11 400, that expenditure on vocational schools will rise by €16 000 – that is good, because that means that we have apprentices – and that expenditure on social assistance will rise by €79 000. [[Abg. Ellwall: Look at this again, that can't be true!]] If you count on it, then you now know that despite this excellent solution for the communities alone for my small community, €90 000 remain, which are not financed. [[Abg. Rädler: That's not true, Mr. Cot.]] - That's not a shame! If you can expect it, you can calculate it yourself. [[Abg. Wheelers: You have no idea!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The destruction of the communities will continue. You delay it a little bit with such small real estates, but you're plunging the communities financially. People feel that too, because people know that we have to collect higher fees and so on. Therefore I can guarantee you that this brand KHG will no longer be purchased in the future, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17539	The next speaker was Mr Dr Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17557	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the debate, but also the speech of my predecessor on the budget and financial compensation, my compassion and also my temporary sympathy are Sepp Riedler, who was chief negotiator and country representative. Why my sympathy Sepp Rieder belongs to the fact that Sepp Rieder was on 27 May. Following the conclusion of the negotiations, the following meant: There will be someone who sees this more through the party-political eyeglasses and thinks that a failure of the negotiations would come to the attention of the government – but the overall Austro-Austrian health system would fall on the head. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Wonderful!]] A few days later, we read the following: The positioning of the National Council election planned in autumn 2006 is a reason for the SPÖ's financial compensation and the health package for SPÖ's managing director Norbert Darabos. We could not agree to this, says Darabos, because for political and strategic reasons it would take every margin for us regarding the next National Council election. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Now we know!]] I think this admission is wonderful, and in view of this flip-flop party, Mr. Dr. Cap, who gives this opposition group, I feel sorry for Michael Häupl and Sepp Rieder. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Michael Häupl meant that party policy speculations were not appropriate for financial compensation. That was the requirement for the Central Secretariat on Löwelstraße. Mr Rieder meant that the population would consider such a behaviour by the parties to the agreement to be dual. - I don't have anything to add to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17613	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17632	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I would like to dwell a little on the financial compensation and the uncertainties for the communities. You, Federal Minister Grasser, have, in an answer to a question, very euphoricly pointed out the dynamic development of the community's revenue by binding on the revenue tax revenue. And you have predicted that the share will increase from € 343 million to € 392 million, i.e. a rapid increase. But what if this year's sales tax will remain below the estimate of €600 million? – This has been a great mystery to you, Minister Grasser! This means very much uncertainty for the communities. Another Grasser’s jubilation message: The administrative burden of the municipalities for the collection of the drinking tax is not included. This is a good news, but it should also be acknowledged that local authorities are still making considerable efforts to execute the drinking tax on the basis of the open procedures relating to recovery claims. The churches still do not know what will happen to them. There is also total uncertainty among the municipalities. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] You, Minister Grasser, continue to write in your reply to the question that the Federal Government's objectives for the 2005 Financial Balance Act are, on the one hand, the conclusion of a new Stability Pact and, on the other hand, the continuation of the reform course. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to set growth impulses and achieve a balanced budget over the economic cycle. So far, the municipalities and the countries had complied with their requirements, but not the federal government. Even a well-known man such as Professor Helmut Frisch, President of the State Debt Committee, believes that the budget deficit will definitely increase to 2% of GDP, which corresponds to a new debt of more than €4 billion. So where do these forecasts come from that there will be a balanced budget? – Again, total uncertainty arises among the local authorities, when the Minister of Finance then begins to turn back to the share of income. The Federal estimate does not provide for any provision for any repayment of the drinking tax. Until now, none have been done, but they are likely to be due in 2005 and are set at 1.1 billion €. This is again an inadequacy with which the communities are left alone. On the other hand, they are faced with increasingly expensive tasks. Whether this is a legal assessment of contracts with large corporations, such as in the case of business settlements, or whether the high expenditure for basic municipal services or also for public transport, the municipalities are insecure and remain alone. Example spatial planning: There are already complaints in the EU area against municipalities that have made businesses hope of establishment and then because the spatial planning had to withdraw commitments. There are so many uncertainties! You yourself have just said at the beginning of this section, only when there is a safe data material, can we make our amendments. I'll tell you, if such a client comes to the debtor's advice, he'll be sent home, and he'll be told: Unfortunately, no re-indebtedness is possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17699	Mr Glaser is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17717	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Estimated colleague Rest-Hinterseer! This government does not leave the municipalities or the countries alone, nor the hospitals alone, but with the financial compensation it ensures that there is a future for these local authorities; I wanted to tell you that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] On this occasion I would also like to say to Mr Gaßner that if this government had not taken over the responsibility for the financial compensation of the communities, it would have serious problems with financing, especially a community like yours and the other small communities. [[Abg. Oils: Graz!]] It may not be the yellow of the egg – the small communities will have wanted more – but it is an essential step anyway. But back to the overall major chapter on finance: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What this government has done in the last five years on reforms and for the reform of the budget is internationally recognised, and this is also appreciated by the population in our country. Only the opposition in this house is hard to deal with. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] But the facts, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be denied. So we went from the last place regarding Maastricht debt in 1999 to the top third. We had practically a zero deficit for two years, and the new debt for 2005 is still much lower in relation than the debt of the budgets of the past 30 years under a SPÖ Chancellor and a SPÖ Finance Minister. But it must also be said that we have achieved these achievements – now you might want to listen briefly! – although we have an annual interest burden on past debt of €7.5 billion. [[Unrest with the SPÖ delegates]] That's about €1,000 for every Austrian. Practically a monthly wage pay smaller income recipients only for the repayment of interest that has left 30 years of SPÖ Chancellorship. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And in the context of this complex financial situation, we are making a tax reform which will secure the upturn in this country, Mr Cap. This government is a success story, ladies and gentlemen, and with the 2005 budget, this government is giving impetus to further developments in this country. What we have also achieved is the financial compensation, which has now been negotiated and which will enable the communities and the countries to develop accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At first it looked as if the SPÖ were going to go along with it, but in the end it was only a few SPÖ politicians who went along. We, the Austrian People's Party and the FPÖ, will assume responsibility, and we will decide on this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17785	The next speaker was Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17803	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am tabling the following amendment, which includes a print error correction or a correcting of estimates: [[Quoted print version removed]] The reason is, as has been said, a print error correction or a correcting of estimates.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17846	The amendment just read by Mr Auer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is properly introduced and supported. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e17903	There are no further words. The debate is closed. I ask the honourable Members to take a seat, because we are now voting on the XI opinion group on the 2005 Federal proposal. This includes Chapters 50 to 55 and 58 of the Federal Proposal in 650 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 670 of the Supplements. Hiezu have MEPs Jakob Auer, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Principal, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the financial approaches to be taken by the proposed amendment and then on the remaining parts of the XI advisory group, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Jakob Auer, Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, colleagues, and others have tabled an amendment which refers to several estimates of Chapters 51, 53 and 58, as well as to resulting changes to the sum amounts. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this amendment to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Now we are voting on the remaining parts of the guidance group XI of the 2005 Federal Proposal in 650 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 670 of the Supplements. Whoever stands for this, I ask for a sign of faith. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group on XI of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues and colleagues on safeguarding Austria's industrial site by remaining ÖIAG as a core shareholder of VA-Tech. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (in terms of the voting behaviour of ÖVP and the liberals) Ha, spoil!]] – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr President, on ensuring that the population is provided with postal services across the board. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a positive signal. [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens – with regard to the voting behaviour of ÖVP and the Freeman –:Oh!]] – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the text of the Federal Financial Act in 650 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report in 670 of the Supplements. Hiezu have the representatives of Jakob Auer, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Principal, ladies and gentlemen, tabled additional amendments. I shall first vote on the parts concerned by these supplementary and amending proposals and then on the remaining parts of the text of the Federal Finance Act, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Jakob Auer, Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment or amendment which refers to the insertion of new paragraphs in Articles V and VI and has an amendment to the final items in Article I. I would ask those Members of the House who are in favour of this supplementary or amendment request to give a sign of confirmation. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. In addition, MEPs have taken part in the work of Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Principal, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning Article X. Whoever is in favour of this amendment, I am looking for a sign of confirmation. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the text of the Federal Finance Act, together with the title and receipt in 650 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report in 670 of the Supplements. I ask for an appropriate sign upon approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. Finally, we are voting on the investments belonging to the Federal Finance Act, in so far as they have not yet been voted on. These are: the summary by groups and chapters in Appendix I and Appendices Ia to Ic (total summaries) in the version of the amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, colleagues, and taking into account the amendments resulting from the Special Reports in 670 of the Supplements and the Annex II – establishment plan – as amended by the Committee Report 670 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – It is the majority and thus adopted. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 2005 together with investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. This adopted the 2005 budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-17-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00086_d7e18011	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 473/A to 477/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2334/J to 2340/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 18. November 2004, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
