ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e2970	Ladies and gentlemen! I very much welcome you to 75. Meeting of the National Council and ask you to take the places. Meeting of the National Council at an extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e2989	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has the National Council with resolution of 24. In accordance with Article 28(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, on the basis of a request from more than one third of the members of the National Council for an extraordinary meeting of the XXII, August 2004. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The Official Protocol of 73. Meeting of 9. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website Parliament's management session remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies are reported as prevented by Dr. Partik-Pablé, Turkovic-Wendl, Ing. Winkler, Bayr, Mag. Johann Maier, Lackner and Vergestnich. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e3021	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Ernst Strasserwird by the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllress. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e3048	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e3238	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the written question put at the beginning of the sitting by Dr Gusenbauer, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning ‘Desaster in the planned sale of ÖIAG shares in Telekom Austria’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be carried out at least three hours after receipt of the agenda, i.e. at 2 p.m. I'll interrupt the meeting by 2 p.m. After resumption of the negotiations, the urgent debate on written question 2087/J will take place. I ask the clubmen to come up to the Bureau for a moment. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e3282	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats. I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance, on ‘Desaster on the planned sale of ÖIAG shares in Telekom Austria’ (2087/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e3315	We now come to the urgent debate on written question 2087/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e3475	Before I give the floor to the questioner, I am aware that the following statement was adopted by the President-in-Office for the period from 14 to 4.50 p.m., which is transmitted by the ORF: The questioner will initiate with the justification of the urgent question: 20 minutes. The surveyed member of the government, i.e. the Federal Minister for Finance, will have 20 minutes to answer the urgent question. After that, there is a word message per group of 10 minutes and then three rounds each with one word notice per group at 5 minutes, taking into account a flexible procedure: If speaking time is not used by the previous speakers of a political group, it will benefit the second, third or fourth speakers. A fifth round is not scheduled. One or two members of the government speak for a total of 15 minutes not later than the last round of speakers. Actual corrections will be moved to the end of the debate after the television broadcast time. There is no mention of word messages for business treatment. – This makes the Formalia clear. I now give the floor to Mr Gusenbauer as the first questioner on the grounds of the question.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e3505	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If it had happened to Minister of Finance Grasser, one of the most important Austrian companies, namely Telekom Austria, would have been sold to Switzerland this summer. Only the ever-increasing public pressure could prevent this fatal step. The aim of our meeting today must be to bring first light into the dark of this affair, second to clarify the responsibility of the Minister of Finance and third to discuss the future of the essential Austrian infrastructure companies. This is the business location of Austria. This is about Austrian jobs, and they are not suitable for summer games of the Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is rightly pointed out that Austria is in an international location competition. The question that all of us have to deal with is: How can we best prepare ourselves for this location competition? There is general agreement among experts that a high-performance infrastructure is one of the very essential elements for the performance of an economy. The importance of the infrastructure for Austria therefore requires that the decision on Austrian roads, Austrian railways, postal services, Austrian energy supply and also on Austrian telecommunications in Austria is taken and nowhere else, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we are, of course, faced with the question: How can we ensure that the decisions on Austrian infrastructure are actually taken in the future in Austria? – As social democrats, we propose that public participation in all Austrian infrastructure companies be aggregated in an infrastructure society, in order to decide in the heart of Austria how our economic location is created, and not anyone else. In this context, one should even consider rethinking the previous privatisation strategy of the Federal Government. Successful Austrian companies benefit from the enlargement of the European Union today to buy: Banks such as Raiffeisen or the First Bank, insurances such as the Wiener Städtisch or only recently the OMV – all successful Austrian companies that do not sell, but buy the companies in Eastern Europe, South-East Europe and Central Europe. Therefore, the foreign exchange for the consolidation of the Austrian economic location is not selling, but buying! This is the currency to see the opportunities for the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The “Small Newspaper” rightly commented: “Such a company,” namely the Telekom, “who still did their homework,..., paid first dividends, had largely renovated and began to earn money, must remain Austrian. How Swisscom Swiss: This is even done by a law with the oaths. They're not stupid either." I believe that this thesis can be widely accepted: that we have no interest and that there is no reason to sell successful Austrian companies abroad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The intention to sell Deutsche Telekom is therefore wrong in economic policy. To sell them to the Swiss state telephone company, even more wrong. If we imagine what would have happened, Deutsche Telekom would no longer be in Austrian ownership, but de facto in Swiss state property: Then, in the future, the Swiss government would make decisions that are crucial to Austria's economic location. With all friendship with Switzerland, but we stand as an economic location in a direct competition with it. Therefore, we do not want Switzerland to decide on Austria, but in Austria we want to decide for ourselves what our telecommunications looks like! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The secret negotiations that have been held here for months have taken place in full involvement and with the agreement of the Minister of Finance, according to all these statements. Today, the Telekom Board of Directors even says that he does not at all see why the negotiations have been terminated. What it did was a lighting, like the whole thing went over the stage. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! After all the relevant analyses we have, we can only say the following: This Minister of Finance is not even able to do the wrong thing, as he has proved once again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What has the whole affair led around Deutsche Telekom in recent months? – The company was insecured for months. The employees were insecured. There has been no alternative strategy for the company in the future. The transactions that have taken place here and which are now even being examined by the stock market supervision results in a complete, very fundamental damage to the Austrian capital market. It's even talking about insider trading. If you read the international comments about the way in which this Telekom story has been handled, you can see that these are all no compliments for Austrian economic policy and all no compliments for the Austrian economic location. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is good and right that this sale was stopped, but the Minister of Finance would have been better advised to save Austria, the Austrians and Austrians from the beginning. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If after the rejection of the entire deal “The Press” is entitled “Beautiful Morning, Banania!”, these are not comments we like to read about Austria or about Austrian economic policy. The “Salzburger Nachrichten” write: “As the parole “privatisation” is used as an all-healer and death-spray argument” and “of course triggers skepticism”, “reasonable, practical solutions are also difficult to represent.” – That’s no good card for Austrian economic policy! And the “Economic Sheet” writes: “Yesterday’s talk at this point was that this supposed deal was “dilettant” at work – and immediately the interested parties kindly took up the proof of truth...” – Mein Ladies and gentlemen, these are all comments that cannot be desired as an Austrian on Austrian economic policy! Mr Finanzminister, I therefore ask you: What did you do to bring Austria into such a situation?- Oh, my God! What moved you to discuss Telekom Austria internationally and in Austria in this way?- Oh, my God! Mr Finanzminister, this is not responsible for economic policy, and you are doing very serious damage to our country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Some go even further. The “Economic Sheet” writes – I quote –: “The almost insurmountable, even highly questionable, questionable way in which the competent rulers acted for weeks and months would, for example, always be sufficient for the withdrawal of the Minister of Finance.” – I very much worshiped Ladies and gentlemen, the “wirtschaftsblatt” writes “behindwäldlerische” and “rightfully extremely distressing” mode of operation. The “Tyrol daily” in turn writes of a “painful abdominal spot of the ÖIAG”; the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” write by a “hour of the diletants”; the “Salzburger Nachrichten” write by “frightening dilettantism”. One could continue the list of these comments endlessly. The ‘Standard’ summarises: “From privatisation, once at the heart of black and blue economic policy, only one sniper has been left behind after some early successes.” Federal Chancellor! They have always said in Parliament that in the ÖIAG “absolute professionals” are at work; the Finance Minister would be an “absolute professional”. Every informant in Austria, on the other hand, judges you that the “hours of the diletants” have struck on this question. Obviously, you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have been enraged by the rule called “Profess” and what remains is sad diletantism: to the damage of Austria and the Austrian jobs! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this thing is not over with Telekom Austria: As is correctly written in the “Kurier”, “the spectacle at Telekom is worthy of an earlier occurrence: In the voestalpine a sale to Magna was considered, just before the Upper Austrian country election. With the VA-Tech, Mirko Kovats led one to the smoothness, which is quite controversial as an industrialist. There ÖIAG simply lost its role as a dominant shareholder.” – Et cetera, et cetera. The “Kurier” summarizes: ‘In view of this list, the question of what ÖIAG is likely to have to do with goose skin is raised next.’ And, dearly, Ladies and gentlemen, today's newspaper reports have to cause a once again goose skin when, for example, two Austrian newspapers report that a takeover of VA-Tech is imminent, one of the leading Austrian technology companies, an Austrian company with 8 000 employees. [[Interlocutory calls at the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Also today, newspapers report that a takeover of this company by Siemens Germany is about to happen and that will result in only 2 500 of these 8,000 highly qualified jobs in Austria at the end. . Since, ladies and gentlemen, the alarm bells must be ringing at you! You can do this filleting of the Austrian Industry to the detriment of jobs is no longer watching! Take care of your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, of the coalition parties! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Responsibility can be assumed, even if much has already been done by the Minister of Finance and the co-owner ÖIAG. Minister for Finance, meeting You have a clarification today: Will the ÖIAG take part in the capital increase?- Oh, my God! Meeting She also made it clear: Will the ÖIAG fight against an enemy takeover of VA technology?- Oh, my God! This is Austria's technology and Austrian jobs! Explain! It is about the Austrian industry, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We of the SPÖ believe that further damage must be eliminated from Austria – and that is why urgent action is needed! Mr Finanzminister, you now have at least the chance at VA-Tech to save all that you have been banishing at Telekom Austria. This is not only about the jobs of VA technology, but also about thousands of jobs in the supply industry. It's about the operating sites Linz and Weiz. And there is no industrial reason why Siemens Germany should buy the VA-Tech, these are direct competitors! It is only about cleaning up the market and getting rid of a competitor! And that is exactly what we must do together to prevent if we want high-quality industrial jobs for people in our country to be available in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr. Finanzminister, in a very merciless summary of your policy, Peter Rabl writes in the “Kurier” of last Sunday: “The latest flop of the planned Telekom sale has all the ingredients Grasser’s policy: sale of a state undertaking without need and against national interest; Abuse of the vocabulary “privatisation” for corruption of state property; political interference in essential business processes; political secret negotiations; innocence played after the transaction’s failure by false declarations and dementis.’ Peter Rabl summarizes: “This is not even the way to lead a car salon, let alone the business of the Republic.” – And Peter Rabl is unfortunately completely right, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's going on, Rabl writes, as always: The disaster follows the “moved walls ” and the“ bending dementia ”! – And finally, he summarizes: ‘Nothing of Grasser’s self-stylization has remained: As privatizers of the state industry rightly disputed, as economic politicians present only ideas about the abolition of holidays, in the circle of EU colleagues as a better-knowledger as little popular as taken seriously, with the zero deficit high in ideology failed." Mr Finanzminister, in the case of such a balance sheet that you have to offer in recent months, there is actually only one consistent step: Quit your policy of endangering the Austrian business location! Stop the squattering of the Austrian industry! Stop the risk of Austrian jobs! Step back at the best! This gives our country the best service.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e3761	In response to the question, Mr. Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Grasser to speak. [[Call the SPÖ: Very pale!]] His speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e3787	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can answer your questions as follows. On Question 1 I would like to point out that, on the basis of the depoliticization carried out by this Federal Government by the Federal Minister for Finance, only the rights of the Republic of Austria are perceived as sole owners of the ÖIAG. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Call the SPÖ: Unheard!]] The Federal Minister for Finance does not have any rights of influence on matters falling within the competence of the respective corporate bodies. That is, we have a very clear division of tasks within the meaning of the ÖIAG law – you know that too, but you do not always want to hear it. [[Visitors at the gallery stand out from their places and form the words “No sale” by means of the appropriate composition with letters printed on their T-shirts.]] [[Lively applause at the SPÖ towards this demonstration at the gallery.]] First: Policy sets out the strategic objectives and their operational implementation is carried out by the ÖIAG in agreement with the Federal Minister for Finance. [[In the case of the SPÖ, there is now a detonative appeal to the ÖVP and the liberals.]] . I thank you many times for the applause you give us here, which obviously is a sign that social democracy is also of the opinion – unlike its chairman – that we are making a good privatisation policy in the interests of the location and its employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e3835	Ladies and gentlemen! I ask to stop the demonstration at the gallery, otherwise I will interrupt the meeting and let the gallery clear! [[Violent calls at the SPÖ.]] I call the Federal Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e3865	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to continue: We have a clear division of tasks: On the one hand, within the meaning of the ÖIAG Act, the Federal Government of ÖIAG gives a privatisation order, and then the ÖIAG is on the train and decides when and concretely how to privatize. According to ÖIAG's information regarding your first question, Swisscom first approached ÖIAG in August 2002. This offer was rejected by ÖIAG because a sale of Telekom Austria to Swisscom never came into question for us. This is the Austrian industrial policy we operate! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The second time, ladies and gentlemen, Swisscom approached the ÖIAG in December 2002. This offer was also rejected by ÖIAG because there were large differences in structural issues and because no further stock exchange listing of Telekom Austria and no sustainable Austrian influence were guaranteed. Swisscom approached ÖIAG for the third time in January 2004. This new round of talks failed because Austrian interests were not safeguarded. Swisscom then entered the fourth and last time by letter on 28 October. ==References====External links== There were then discussions about a business merger. It was clear, ladies and gentlemen, that on the fourth time the ÖIAG turned the spear and said: After there is no sale of Telekom Austria to Swisscom, we are trying to raise the question of whether there can be a merger, a merger of the two companies into a larger joint venture, a company in which a sustainable Austrian influence is guaranteed! Now I ask you: What Is Focused on Your accusation? Is the accusation that the ÖIAG has made very concrete, hard conditions so that we can enter into concrete discussions? Is your accusation that ÖIAG has demanded that, according to the Supervisory Board, according to the Supervisory Board, a new joint parent company should also be represented by Austria? Is your accusation that the ÖIAG has demanded that the entire Eastern Europe expansions be carried out across Austria? Is your accusation that ÖIAG has demanded that the headquarters should stay in Austria? Is your accusation that ÖIAG has demanded that the capital market listing on the Vienna Stock Exchange be maintained accordingly? [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Answer the questions!]] That is, we have tried – and the ÖIAG has tried to do nothing but implement the privatisation order. And this privatisation order does not provide for any other means than to secure and implement Austrian interests in a sustainable manner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If it had been possible to safeguard Austrian interests, in particular to ensure secure jobs, headquarters, Eastern Europe expansion, research and development and capital markets for Austria, if one could have taken all of this into account and in addition if these two companies were to join together, I must tell you: It was the obligation of the ÖIAG to choose both alternatives: On the one hand, an exchange course, on the other hand, reversed a transaction in which Switzerland has always mediated: We have an interest in buying you! and at which has been very clearly signaled: A sale is not considered for us if, then, only a merger into a common, larger company that would have been the seventh largest Telekom company in Europe, with a corresponding chance of becoming a European player just like the OMV, and after Austria would have been permanently involved in this joint venture! There it was right – and there is nothing to blame the ÖIAG – that it has checked this alternative just as much as the stock exchange! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you say to decide in Austria that is important, that should be the motto, then I tell you: That's exactly what we're doing! Of course, Austrian industrial policy in Austria is decided! I take note with amazement that if it works great when the OMV talks in Romania when the Federal Chancellor tries to make a good mood in his visits to Romania when outstanding transactions are made in the interests of Austria and our employees, let alone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs]] In your view, this is not a success of the ÖIAG and not a success of the Austrian Federal Government, but it is your opinion that this has made a company in which we are involved. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenbauer said: “Buying is the foreign exchange!” I would like to say to you: First of all, you have sold more than ten companies to 100 percent from SPÖ in your time. That means the freeness of your opinion is documented here! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Secondly, Mr Gusenbauer, it was social democracy or social democratic influence in Vienna, which led to the sale of the largest Austrian bank. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] The Vienna influence, the Wiener Politik has to answer that more than 1 billion € have been lost with this sale to the HypoVereinsbank. [[Uh-rufe at the ÖVP.]] That is why I say to you: What you've proved in 30 years' time, that you can't privatize that you can't make an industrial policy, that you know how it's not done, we've done better, we've made decisions in the sense of the Austrian location, in the sense of our employees, in the sense of our companies! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Last point, Mr Gusenbauer: It is not about the State buying, but we are doing everything we can to support that the private companies, whether it is the First Bank, whether it is the Raiffeisenbank, whether it is many other industrial companies or insurance companies, are well placed on this long Austrian path of supporting the enlargement of the European Union from the growth that is taking place in these countries and that we are represented there, because it benefits our businesses and our companies. The history of Austrian industrial policy has proved that it is bad if the state keeps this property. But you have to answer – in your 30 years of industrial policy it was – that 4.3 billion euros of tax money have been lost! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They are responsible for the loss of more than 50,000 jobs with the policy of state property and public intervention! [[new calls to the SPÖ]] And you have to answer that you have handed us €6.3 billion to debt! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We've proven how it works better: We took the debt back! [[Bravorous and lively condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] We just made it better: Out of 6.3 billion debts, we made 1.7 billion euros of debt! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. The so-called windshield wiper movement is saddened.]] From values of €5 billion that you handed over to us, we have made more than €5.5 billion! That means: We've brought back debts, and we've increased values! The red figures of 33 years of ÖIAG, of 33 years of national politics, with deficits at the expense of the taxpayer and the next generation, we have turned into black figures. This is a policy that benefits the Austrian economy, which benefits employees and benefits businesses! [[Lively condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] On question 2, ladies and gentlemen, who have been informed by me: First of all, I referred to the division of tasks, saying: The Federal Government grants a privatisation order, which is then notified by the Minister of Finance of the ÖIAG, just at a general meeting. The law does not provide for the Minister of Finance to inform the Council of Ministers, because the division of tasks is that, after a privatisation contract – quite in the sense of depoliticization – the ÖIAG and its bodies are actually on the train, that is, the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board are on the train and decide in concrete terms how and when to privatize. However, since this was certainly a very large and far-reaching industrial policy policy position and one would have needed a change of law, namely a change in the ÖIAG Act, so that the Republic of Austria via ÖIAG could have been involved in a common parent company, it was perfectly clear that I was my responsibility as Minister of Finance and tried to take care of this transaction within the framework of my legal responsibility, to accompany it accordingly as Minister of Finance within the framework of the powers assigned by law. Therefore, at the time I had the impression, on the basis of information from the ÖIAG, that this transaction could come about, at the end of July/beginning of August, Mr Bundeskanzler was very generally informed about this transaction, about the principles that we made very harsh Austrian conditions from the ÖIAG and the Telekom management – and that not the sale, but a merger was the interest. ==References====External links== August both the Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor informed of me in detail and then kept up-to-date. On question 3, I can say that I have been informed of all four offers from Swiss side, which I mentioned, by ÖIAG. But I would like to stress that, of course, I have never held negotiations myself. At irregular intervals, I was informed by ÖIAG, and there was also a conversation between the ÖIAG and four Swisscom board members, which I took part in for about one hour: first, to get to know the possible trade partners, second, to present the privatisation order of the Austrian Federal Government and to represent Austrian interests very strongly and consistently in this conversation. I would like to mention a conversation with the Swiss Minister for Finance Merz in answer to Question 4, to which I am now allowed to come. ==References== August I met with the Swiss Minister of Finance Merz in the Austrian Embassy in Bern. In addition to both of us, two employees took part in this meeting. It was a routine meeting of acquaintances, which was agreed before the summer and which had nothing to do with this transaction, a date that came about because Federal Councillor Merz had been in office for about half a year and we had no way of getting to know. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The issue of Telekom Austria/Swisscom is not on the official agenda; we have not officially talked about it either; we have accordingly also informed the media. Informally, after the official part, Federal Councillor Merz addressed this issue. However, the subject has not been discussed in the final analysis, and I have gained the impression that there have also been different positions in Switzerland on this possible transaction. Question 5: I know the laws; of course, therefore, I can absolutely rule out what has been done in your question. On question 6: On the joint information stand of the ÖIAG and the owner's representative, on why and what gave the result for a place of this deal: It was no longer possible to implement the transaction on the conditions negotiated in principle, including the timetable, following a decision of the Swiss Board of Directors from the point of view of the ÖIAG – and, on the other hand, the basis of confidence between the negotiating partners ÖIAG and Swisscom was no longer given, because several of the reasons were not complied with according to agreed points. That means: Because the concrete Austrian negotiating position was no longer sustainable and sustainable Austrian interests were no longer enforceable, the negotiations were terminated by ÖIAG. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board informed me immediately before public communication. Therefore, it is not right that this transaction has been stopped by a ‘political decision’. Questions 7 and 8: I should like to point out that this falls within the sole competence of the unbound and independent supervision of the financial market. I have asked for an opinion from the Financial Markets Supervisory Board and may quote this opinion as follows. Financial market surveillance information: ‘In principle, there is no legal obligation to request the suspension of trade in a share because of an upcoming important communication. The Stock Exchange Act only requires that a price-related fact should be published without delay via appropriate mass communications. This has been done. There is also no legal obligation to pre-information the Vienna Stock Exchange, which alone has the power to decide on the suspension of trade. The communication of the failure of the discussions between Swisscom and ÖIAG is therefore based on the information available – from the point of view of financial market supervision – “legislative. Financial market supervision cannot make any statement on Telekom Austria's trading options in the two days before the negotiations were held. In general, however, options do not serve as a priority for speculation, but as a means of securing business. It is therefore basically not exceptional if, in the context of large transactions, there are also safeguards against the economic consequences of a possible failure.” – Quotes. I may add: It is my greatest interest – I have also made this very clear to the Boards of Financial Market Supervision – to examine in detail the fact that transparency is brought into trade with Deutsche Telekom shares and that information is also provided to the public in this respect, because, of course, an investigation – also in the sense of the reputation of the Austrian financial centre – is important and necessary. In this context, Mr Gusenbauer, and as you are constantly talking about ‘destruction of value’, we already have to make it clear: If you take the stock price of the Austrian Telekom to 1. See June 2004, then you will see that he was at €11.16. ==References== August, so today, when I left the office, the course was €11.61. If you look at the performance of Telekom companies in Europe [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] It is very nice to see that Telekom Austria has increased 36 percent since 2000, while Deutsche Telekom, for example, has lost 64 percent of its value; Vodafone 51 percent, the Swisscom 5 percent, the AT&T 53 percent, the Telecom Italia 61 percent. So I'm very surprised that They now defend from the SPÖ speculators, who have gone extremely risk-oriented into this value, and think: What is not a big problem for social democracy is that speculation has not succeeded! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No values have been destroyed, as you say, but values have been created since the year 2000: for this company, with good management of the company – and unlike all other Telekom companies in Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On Question No 9, I can tell you that I asked ÖIAG for information, but ÖIAG told me that it could not give us the amount, because the order had not yet been settled. On question 10 concerning VA-Tech, I can do the following: First of all, I know this information like you from the media; second, I tried to get a knowledge from the ÖIAG last night. And I'll take this to your question: First: The Federal Minister for Finance is not the owner of VA-Tech. The VA-Tech, in which ÖIAG is involved with 15 percent, is a listed stock company. For the provision of information on VA-Tech's affairs, the Board of Directors shall only be empowered to comply with the principle of equal treatment of all shareholders. This question concerns decisions taken by VA-Tech institutions and therefore no competence of the Federal Ministry of Finance. From a political point of view, however, I would like to state very clearly that the VA-Tech is one of the industrial pearls of our country, that the new Board of Management of VA-Tech has the full trust of the ÖIAG and also my full confidence that I am sure that this Board will do the best for the location and for the employees. And the objective from my point of view, as the owner of the ÖIAG, is nothing more than that we must do everything we can to ensure that an Austrian solution can also be achieved at VA-Tech, as in the case of Voest, as at Böhler-Uddeholm, that we can secure the jobs there – and that there must not be a breakdown of the company and will not exist, ladies and gentlemen! We must also take care of this as a 15 percent shareholder. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer, I am now using the last minute of my speaking time, saying to you: They have taken stock, and if you take stock of the facts and practice you can see that there is a good example of a red-green government in Europe, and you can see what comes out of it: There are record deficits in Germany, there is zero growth, there is record unemployment. There thousands of people go to the street because of the unsocial cuts that Red-Green make there. In comparison, see Austria: We have the double growth, the half deficit, the lowest youth unemployment in all of Europe! And it is not natural that we are better than 24 other member countries of the European Union, but that is a great merit to the Federal Minister Bartenstein, because we have managed to be the best in Europe in these areas because employment is increasing and because we are fighting for every single job, ladies and gentlemen! [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] At the end of my remarks, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that I believe that the SPÖ has only two points: One is the hunt for grass, the other is since the last weekend to increase taxes. – The facts speak for themselves. You will not be able to hinder me in my work for Austria. The taxes are not increased, but lowered – and that is good.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e4121	We are now going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 10 minutes - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e4142	A remarkable applause for your own political downfall! There's only respect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also think it is remarkable that you accept that the Minister of Finance is showing here again that he is actually living in another world, in a very own, other world. He makes himself there today and says: Well done, nothing has happened!, while previously it was rightly cited what all journalists and journalists in Austria meant to do. – And that won't be the only one: International journalists, analysts, börsians, employees, employers, people who want to invest in Austria will also take a look at this. And I tell you, many of them will be afraid of coming to Austria again and investing there or going to the stock exchange. They're gonna get scared of it! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] And after your applause, they will be even more afraid, for this one has shown that you will also have such an approval of this sonata of destruction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Finanzminister, it has already been quoted a lot today, but one person still deserves to be mentioned in this large series of quotations, namely Erwin Zankel of the “Small Newspaper”, which took place on 21 January. August: “He” – Grasser – “does not tire of depriving the destruction of more than a billion euros of stock exchange value on a single day as a normal price correction. He is even pleased that the merger with the Swiss did not work.” I think you will also cry out in jubilation when the Federal Chancellor once tells you that you are no longer Minister of Finance. That's where you'll say: Finally! I've achieved my goal, I'm no longer Minister of Finance! – This positive attitude will probably also be outstanding. Erwin Zankel also writes: “That’s how cheap the vice-president of the finance must not lie away from the scene.” – We thought so too, and that’s why this meeting is happening today. You have to answer here today, and you can’t be so cheap about the scene here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And then Zankel writes – I can't quote everything, but in the final effect he demands consequences and says that if Grasser's interpretation is true, Mr. Michaelis and Heinzel would have to take the hat, if not – he will be careful – "then Grasser has a problem". “And with him,” says Zankel, who must have been informed in the background, namely the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Grossruck: Just bring in a mistrust request!]] There is also an interesting article in the “press ” in which it is said that one should turn to the head who is responsible here. In the “profile” this week it is said that the chancellor finally squeaked back the Minister of Finance. In addition, a column points to a study written by Morgan Stanley, a very renowned consultant group, which states that the deal Telekom/Swisscom does not bring any economic synergies between the two companies at all; these are marginal. I wonder what that would have meant, except to say: From now on, Switzerland is giving the tone and not Austria anymore! – This is, by the way, the definition of ‘Austrian interests’: Sales, over to Switzerland, as far as possible no own Austrian industrial and economic infrastructure. That means “representing Austrian interests ”! It is also not economically clear what has happened here. And – and now it's actually going to be quite interesting – if it was a political decision, then the Finance Minister was actually the first one next to the Federal Chancellor who knew that the sale of Telekom Austria to Switzerland is not taking place. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: After hope it will become interesting once!]] Now one could be once again minutely the 19th. ==References====External links==* Official website August; I do not know when the Federal Chancellor spoke to the Minister for Finance. Perhaps it was just days before, maybe two days before, when these famous speculations started on the stock exchange, where fifteen times more than normal speculations were made about the fact that the courses expired, and a huge business was made out of it. But, well, that day the Minister of Finance knew this first. I suppose the next one will have been Mr. Michaelis. When was he with you? At 9 o'clock? At 11 o'clock? When did you discuss this with him? How long did it take for the others to be inaugurated? And when was this commitment observed after mass media information? Why has there been so much time gone by, hour by hour, even days when some have already known? You can't make yourself there, Mr. Finanzminister, and say: Hoppala, I just got an opinion from the Financial Market Supervisory Board, in which it says: Actually, we didn't find anything. – What is to be found in financial market supervision? [[Abg. Friend: That's what the cap knows! They don't know each other!]] Look It's what you're looking at: A toothless law, hardly any skills! [[Abg. Head: We decided with your help! Decided with you!]] Would you mind what they really can do? Of hundreds, yes, thousands of clues, 200 are persecuted and only four – one, two, three, four – end in court. They can't do that! Why don't we make a parliamentary investigation committee? Why don't you agree to our request that we bring light into the grassy dark, light into the stock exchange darkness, by making sure that there is cleanness coming back there through a clear reconnaissance? If that's normal for you!Unknown term type: "%s".? What did you say? – ‘curricular fact’. Do you have an idea for the next “curricular fact”? These are as many as 100 million who “grow up ” over the table when doing some sort of skill. ‘Treaty relevant’! – Telekom is treated as with a sausage shop: Now we've been negotiating a biterl with the Swisss. We were at the Swiss Minister of Finance. We talked about the weather, about the temperatures of the Lake Geneva, but we didn't talk about that. Mr Winkler with the Financial Times? – Not about it, not at all! No one knew anything, no one! Irrespective people have gone up and down in the ÖIAG. No one was entrusted with it. And politics? – The Federal Chancellor anyway, because he was on holiday somewhere. Only Ms. Erna Lackner once wrote in a comment: If the king speaks to us again, if he has an audience in the “ZiB 2”, if he explains anything to us again. – What kind of policy is that? How do you want to gain a majority of reform in the country? You don't even do the wrong thing. What you're doing is not just not just doing right, but you're not even trying to explain it. It would be important, however, for the many who follow this up to see what's going on wrong. It is now about Austrian wealth. This is about social security, about the employees there and actually also about the Austrian reputation abroad, which seems to you to be completely different. We become a mockery in Germany and abroad through your economic policy! And I'll tell you: This is not my Austrian self-confidence! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister! There are so many commentators – but perhaps you are of the opinion that these are loud unsuspecting fools who have no idea of economics; then please tell the individual commentators personally – written how diletantic that has been, this attempted sale of Telekom. You, Mr Minister, are in a kind of self-hypnotic process: Genius Grasser can't be wrong, Genius Grasser has chosen the right way! – I tell you, this is too easy, too, and it would not be bad for you to practice self-criticism here, because from the knowledge of self-criticism you may find some knowledge of a changed path. Mr Finanzminister! You also have to add that the negotiators, like Michaelis, Wieltsch and like all of them, are also so-called experts in the ÖIAG. That's not someone who's coming there, they've chosen you! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] These are your trustees, and they should finally take care of them. Mr Finanzminister, your scope for action is, of course, not a very large one, because it is only recently that your problem has become known that you have with your homepage. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] I understand you're not interested in that. At the most, the representatives of the Industrial Union consider this an interesting topic, and others may not find it so interesting at all. But one thing has already been said: The fact that you now have a financial penalty as Minister of Finance, because the basis of assessment is, of course, well beyond €75 000, is also a European one-off. You can't make yourself there and say: I am already looking forward to this financial punishment! Maybe you'll say, too. I welcome the fact that I have finally been sentenced. I suffered so much that I knew that my basis of assessment had been beyond € 75 000. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It's actually an inconceivable scandal! But you sit there and say, Once the reputation has been ruined, it lives on unhappiness. In this view, you are also encouraged by the Chancellor, who seems to take all of this away and is not at all interested in the fact that there is a rethinking here. The fact is that the Austrian taxpayer, who has the impression of Austrian taxpayers, in this government, in this Ministry of Finance, with this Minister of Finance, is measured by two measures: One must pay tax until their fingers are wound, and the Minister of Finance is attested in his association in the question of what is taxable for a gift from the Industrial Union, for his work, in his homepage: No, he's not taxed. The Court of Auditors' raw report, which is very interesting – even criticism – has quoted this as "NEWS" – that tax freedom has been wrongly granted here. But this co-two-measure trade fair fits into this ruined moral basis that this federal government has. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:53]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e4295	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I say: Deputies Dr. Cap, Dr. Kräub, colleagues and colleagues have, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure request that an investigation committee be set up to clarify the conduct of the Federal Minister for Finance, the Federal Chancellor and all employment services and the ÖIAG in respect of preparatory work, contractual negotiations and other matters in the course of the planned sale of ÖIAG shares at Telekom Austria. The debate on this has not been called for. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote will take place after completion of the debate on the urgent question. Mr Magistrate has now been given power. Molter the word. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e4330	Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Mr President. After Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Cap have read mostly from newspapers, I would like to continue, although, as I believe, a special meeting would not be necessary for newspaper literature, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Sburny: That doesn't make it better!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But if you already want it, I will also read something from a “press” article by Christian Ortner. Under the heading ‘On the other hand: Expert Gusenbauer’s name is: [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP]] “Whenever an important company is discharged from the state’s property – as is currently the case under quite a few woes of Telekom – the internationally renowned privatization specialist Dr Alfred Gusenbauer comes up with the plan, looks sourly three, as if he had discovered a corrupt bottle, and warns of a “versible” of folk property.” [[Abg. Scheibner: Is it good when he discovers it!]] Ortner also writes that criticism is quite legitimate, but: “However, it needs to be presented even in a pitifully credible way, at least a minimum level of relevant competence – and that is exactly what the SPÖ lacks about exactly one hundred percent.” [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] And that's what it says: “The Austrian economic history of the last decades proves watertight that the ‘quality of justice’ of social democracy on this issue is about as well developed as the sense of Iranian mullahs for feminist concerns.” [[Lively cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Mr Gusenbauer! I think that is actually not a lot to add, because you, Mr Gusenbauer, and also Mr Cap, have clearly proved, even with your comments here today, that you have little to offer to Austria on the economic perspective. They continue where the SPÖ tradition in national policy has been at home for decades, namely at the disaster of national policy and the national authorities in Austria, under the responsibility of SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The SPÖ is totally unbelievable on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ's responsibility is to say that they write 4 300 million euros or 59 000 million shillings of tax money! And in this time of SPÖ responsibility, the number of employees has also fallen from around 105 000 to 55 000. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Under Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel!]] What does that mean? – 4.3 billion tax money spent, 55 000 jobs less. This is national policy brand SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That was under Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel!]] Secondly, you are unbelievable on this issue because you, ladies and gentlemen, measure with two measures: July 1993 – SPÖ responsibility: majority privatisation of the Austriamicrosystems international. November 1993: Issue of a further 25 percent; majority privatisation via the stock exchange. November 1993: 100 % sale of A.S.A. to a French company. May 1994: the majority privatisation of VA-Tech AG by handing over 51 percent via the stock market. – SPÖ time! July 1994: Deliver the remaining 26 percent to AMS by Private Placement. November 1994: a hundred percent sale of AT&S, the Austrian technology and system technology. – responsibility of SPÖ. By the way: Hannes Androsch is co-owner. October 1995: Issue of 31 percent to VA-Stahl AG via the stock exchange. February 1996: The return of 4.6 percent to the VA steel to an institutional investor. Or: Sale of satins to 100 percent – in the responsibility of SPÖ. Co-owners: Hannes Androsch. [[Hö-Rufe at ÖVP.]] And now there are two questions, ladies and gentlemen: Either you measure with two dimensions for political reasons – well, then you say it – or you make decisions depending on other issues. You can't feel something right when the co-owner is called Androsch, and if he's not called Androsch, you think it's wrong. What is this policy, ladies and gentlemen, of the SPÖ? So economic policy is not feasible in this country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I could continue this list and I would. Consumer policy: [[Call the ÖVP:Matznetter!]] There have been billions in sand, thousands of people have lost their jobs and many suppliers, small and medium-sized enterprises have lost a lot of money. – SPÖ. SPÖ responsibility: Sale – with the question of whether it is such a one at all – of Bank Austria. What's the effect? – billions of lost assets, and the course of Bank Austria is falling dramatically. – Economic policy brand SPÖ! Economic Policy Brand SPÖ: Bank Burgenland-Pleite. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Economic policy of the SPÖ brand: ÖIAG debt in 2000: €6.3 billion. Economic Policy Brand SPÖ: Landesbank's plea. Economic Policy Brand SPÖ: Vienna: The highest unemployment rate of all federal states with the highest unemployment growth of all federal states. [[Abg. Eder: That's nonsense!]] – Economic policy, responsibility brand SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen! In contrast, this federal government has managed to reduce ÖIAG's debt from 6 billion to 1.7 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen, and the companies write profits and can therefore serve these debts themselves without tax money! [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Or: Feast. The Voest is today, ladies and gentlemen, the company that has the highest level of employment in Austrian workers, the company that presents the best quarterly result in history, and the company that invests € 2 billion in Austria in the Voest locations. – This is our economic policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, you can use these urgent ones today for the further debate on the economic policy concept of the future – well! – and we have been there in the last few days – thank you, Mr Van der Bellen! – finally black on white what the SPÖ's economic future is. The SPÖ says in its economic concept, which it proposes for the future, that: It wants to increase taxes – in concrete terms, the savings account tax, the basic tax, the inheritance tax. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman]] The SPÖ says she wants to tax rent income. What does that mean? – Higher taxation of rental income means increasing rents! The SPÖ wants to raise rents, ladies and gentlemen! [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] The SPÖ says it wants to spread the tax base. Well, what does “widen ” mean? At least be honest, ladies and gentlemen: That means: Increase taxes! The SPÖ says: In health insurance higher contributions! It does not even do the work of discussing the reform, where one can save. She's just going the way: If the Austrians get into their pockets, it will go on somehow! – This is not our policy! [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Gaßner, Dr. Matznetter and Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] The SPÖ wants a privatisation stop. What does that mean? – The old socialist state understanding should return again: To influence the state and to have economic control over the companies in Austria. The commentators say this, for example: You want to pay taxes – that is higher – for SPÖ choices? – For example, the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” say that there is no longer any mention of a slimmer state, but it should all become the same again as in the 1970s. It writes the “Small Newspaper” – and this is interesting –: “Market plus Marx produces Murks”, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This is really not your level!]] Our policy is forward-looking, we lower taxes – you want to raise them! We want to bring companies to Austria – you are distributing the companies with your economic policy concept. We want more private initiative – you want more state influence. We want to strengthen the location – you are endangering the location with your policy. Matznetter also admits this when he says in his presentation that he is proud to be a “Dinosaur from the Palaeolithic”. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] As a result, two conclusions are drawn: The dinosaurs are not extinct. And: The aim of the SPÖ is old stone. – Our countermodel is the name of the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e4566	Mr Scheibner came next to the speaker's desk. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e4585	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! So this is her, the annual summer special session of the Social Democrats, a little later than usual – I don't know what it was in. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] - Please? What do you mean, Mr. Collegue? Don't be so aggressive! I don't know where you came from. We are happy to discuss economic policy with you, discuss tax policy, discuss location policy – the important questions of the Republic! I already see Dr. Gusenbauer's spin-doctors, whom he may have brought with him from America, how their heads smoke in front of such a special meeting, as one considers: What topic can we bring back here this time so that a largely unknown SP candidate in Vorarlberg can again pursue SPÖ policy on television? [[Abg. Parnigoni: You only have more than 7 percent of the votes anyway!]] The last time, Mr Parnigoni, we have chosen the tax reform. [[Abg. Parnigoni: 7 percent you still have! - Insignificant! Insignificant!]] Well, we could have discussed them today too! At the time, you asked for a tax reform – not this one, but you demanded a tax reform – and we introduced a tax reduction: 1. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== January 2005 third stage of the greatest tax reduction in the history of the Second Republic by this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] From your point of view, a special meeting could have been held on the labour market, but your spin doctors will have said: No, wrong topic! because this federal government has set the right course: Austria is also number 1 in the European Union on labour market data! We have made the trend change, especially in the field of domestic employment. – So no good means for an opposition special meeting. One would also have the topic of pension harmonisation – very, very up-to-date! – today can debate and discuss it. Why didn't you do that? It is said that you want to do so, a real, sustainable guarantee of pensions, ladies and gentlemen. But your spin doctors will have said: No, not a good topic!, because otherwise it may be remembered by the Social Democrats that you are the one who has put the fundamental opposition before the interests of the Republic of Austria when you have rebuffed the social partners who have reached an agreement at the negotiating table for months, which it has or would have given: But no, it must not be that there is a consensus on this important question, because then for the next election movements, the “argument” “pension and pension clause” is missing! So not a good topic, ladies and gentlemen. We stand to reason that we are committed to a large package of harmonisation, so that there is really a fair, uniform system for all workers, ladies and gentlemen. And we are also in favour of the fact that hard-working people and people who have been in the process for a long time, who have been 45 years, will, as far as possible, be able to go into the deserved retirement without deductions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] [[I should like to congratulate the liberals and the honourable Member Mag. Molterer and Dr. Spindelegger.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Tell the Federal Chancellor!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] These are topics, ladies and gentlemen, which we should debate here, and these would have been topics for a special meeting. But your spin doctors will have been right to advise you against such a topic. We could also have discussed economic policy, ladies and gentlemen, because economic policy is also a location policy and is also a job creation. You should know that not the state creates jobs – but at best the framework conditions – but only a thriving, a good economy, good businesses create jobs! [[Abg. Parnigoni: So weak! That's really...!]] So why not have a special meeting on economic policy? No, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, your spin doctors will have been right. They probably got face to face with this paper yesterday or yesterday and said: No, SPÖ economic policy is not suitable for national Council debates, because this set of headlines being prepared here may be suitable for a clause of socialist youth, but not for an opposition party that has taken place to govern this country! [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Shame and power. Molterer]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But we would have liked to discuss this, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Parnigoni, now you will be reddish! I think so, because I would also be red if I read as a social Democrat that it says that you do not want to make new debts and deficits for the budget when financing the social and welfare state, no, the higher costs are to be financed by taxes! And that is where these additional tax revenue is to come from, namely from those areas which do little or nothing to finance the community today, but which benefit from these benefits, which are intended to make appropriate contributions. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Of... owners like Bartenstein, of whom should...!]] Who are the large groups in Austria, who benefit from benefits, but who pay little or no contributions, i.e. are excluded from the tax burden – from income tax, from wage tax? – This is the great mass of the micro- and medium-sized earners, ladies and gentlemen! You want to ask them for the checkout now? No, ladies and gentlemen! With this tax reform which I have already mentioned, we have ensured that the members of this population are the beneficiaries of the social system in the future, but are exempt from income tax and wage tax liability to a greater extent than before. For this we stand – and we are also different from your policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And we are not in favour of raising taxes, not even in the areas that you sometimes mentioned by SPÖ in class struggles: in the inheritance area, in the land tax, in the savings account tax. [[Call at the SPÖ: Where does that stand?]] It's not the big millionaires you're looking at, but it's the little savers you want to ask for cash with an increase in the savings-book tax! It is the cooperative tenants with their homes who would be burdened by the increase in the basic tax, because the rents are increased, and they are those who have worked out a savings book or other things for a lifetime and want to pass it on to their heirs! It is not the millionaires you want to shrink in this concept, but it is the small, the middle Austrians! – We will protect them from you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You, Mr Gusenbauer, said that jobs are “not suitable for summer games”. – I will give you the right to do so, but I will bring it back again. You put the old mesh – just like last year at the Voest –: Sale of state property, risk of job creation. – This has already been the untruth and only panic in a campaign for election. Where is this a topic in connection with the Voest today, ladies and gentlemen: Job destruction, sale? On the contrary: This great company of the Republic of Austria, which many, many Austrians are proud of, is now prosperating with a new plan, because the Federal Government has created the appropriate framework conditions for the locations in Austria with the infrastructure package, with the reduction of corporate tax. [[Abg. Oillinger: Minerva project! Tell me something!]] This also concerns such companies as the Voest, and that is the right way: that internationally oriented companies have good conditions in Austria and that we take them into protection and immunise them against a negative propaganda à la SPÖ. The same is true, ladies and gentlemen, at Telekom! We hear again: Sold out! Jobs! Danger of Austrian interests and infrastructure! – Ladies and gentlemen, it was you who, during the negotiations with the EIA in 2000, adopted the same thing that we had in the government programme: [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What did the FPÖ say about this?]] Up to 100 percent privatization of Deutsche Telekom. – But in the government one says something different than in the opposition – at least when it comes to the Social Democrats, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Riepl: A forest and meadow red!]] Of course one can now say that one is against privatisation, but, ladies and gentlemen, we must also make this important company Europe and internationally fit! You know very well that strategies are also necessary for the expansion of business activities abroad and that you need strategic partners, but good strategic partners – and not those you have taken in with Italian Telecom – that have meant a standstill. The only one who enjoyed this deal at the time may have been a former chancellor advisor, but these are not the privatizations, they are not the strategic partners we want! – But don’t go here and criticise a positive privatisation policy of the Austrian Federal Government and then believe that we all forgot what you did by the SPÖ in the nationalised area and especially with Deutsche Telekom at the time. As regards the stock prices you criticise here, ladies and gentlemen: They may defend the speculators who may have lost something in the short term – because they have speculated on this privatisation and on this partnership. The small investors who have invested in this stock for longer periods of time have made beautiful profits: 36 percent profit since 2000, since this Federal Government bears responsibility – while all the other European telecom sectors, including the Telecom Italia, which you favor, have huge losses. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] So I think, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, we can only be grateful for every special meeting you are demanding, because we can show the difference between a responsible government policy and your panic-making – and I believe that this has been very successful today too!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e4825	Now, Mr Magz, I would like to say a few words about Mr Magz. Kogler. His speaking time is also 10 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e4854	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! What has now succeeded is at least only clear to me that the Federal Government is reacting to the insistence of a SPÖ-driving person who at first has nothing to do with the urgent – and what else, has not yet opened up to me. This also leads me to Klubobmann Molterer, who has done everything wrong here in more than half of his speaking time, which went wrong by the year 2000. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not gone wrong! I just added up!]] – Mr Klubobmann, you were the Federal Minister at the time, which is why you will probably have remembered so well! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: No, 1993 I was not a minister!]] You, Mr Mag. Molterer, in your capacity as Minister of State – I think I can speak for some members of my group – have certainly left the impression of a competent minister. When you move into the role as a clubman, you have done a little harder, which obviously has also led to the irritations going so far that you no longer know that you probably had all of this to do with unanimity at the time. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] But if we turn to the phase that I would once be setting out to be the period from 2000 until now, then the government, the majority of governments, can already be measured by what it has set out and spent on slogans. And I would like to distinguish two things: on the one hand, the basic – but now privatisation policy and not economic policy in general, because I think that would lead too far – and on the other hand, the concrete occasion: the action of ÖIAG on behalf of the Federal Government at this so-called Swisscom/Telekom deal. – These are not the same things! So I congratulate every politician who knows exactly what happened in detail, because he has obviously already broken the promise of not wanting to keep putting it in. So that's what I want to keep apart. Let us just look at the basic question: What's happened since 2000? What was the turning point in the economic and privatisation policies of Black and Blue? So I have to say: A possible party policy in the run-up – which may not have been completely unfamiliar to you under Red-Black – has been replaced by nepotism and post-chachers of the special class, as was previously unknown! This has gone away from the first day into the ÖIAG Supervisory Board – with which we have to deal, for example today – which you obviously defend and rejoice until the end, until today. There may also be some good inside, but let's take a look at the plea series in this privatisation time! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Who's not good? Who's not good? Say that!]] A Mr Sigi Wolf from Magna may also be a good manager, but what did someone whose own companies have massive interests in ÖIAG's shares lose in the ÖIAG Supervisory Board? – And that is exactly how this privatisation policy – that is, the start to it – has looked out over the years too! [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: “Minerva”!]] Now you're gonna make yourself up and say, Voest didn't succeed so badly! – I may You recall what would have happened if this so-called Minerva project had gone through: Well, today you'd be sitting there differently – tumultuous! – because it turned out quite clearly that strategic partners might be reasonable, but whether Magna was not an enemy takeover, you could not have answered that, and today you would probably have regretted it. But the whole thing has happened with the knowledge and drive of the Minister of Finance – still with a Supervisory Board with which he is well-friended. This is the condition that we have to regret in this Republic – not some detail. In view of the global state of this government, the fact that this is going to go wrong must not be surprised. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As a result, there is a different approach, such as the ÖBB: Post chess ade? – After that was never as bad as now, until today! And otherwise, privatisation policy is set up in such a way that the state is currently acting in such a way that half ÖBB becomes a takeover candidate – at least for the parts that appear to be lucrative. After that, you slip, make yourself out of the dust, and say: The State – who now, if not the Federal Government? – is a bad businessman! How true! You can also see it this way, because you sometimes get the impression that you are deliberately doing the whole thing in order to follow your own ideology after the things – in this case, to bring them to the bad track. The ÖBB is a good example of things that happen in general in the ÖIAG. You always say the state is bad. – Please, if the Swisscom remains largely in the possession of the public hand until the end of the year, I would like to invite you once to clarify this dilemma in which you are concerned. Perhaps you don't know exactly yet, but it still has some member of the government to do as I have been told. So, how is that now? Is the state also a bad businessman? Would you like to sell the ÖIAG shares to bad entrepreneurs? At least measure yourself by your own standards! They continue to follow your baseline, which is not exactly that economic Pragmatism, which is very often necessary – yes, even from a green point of view! In our view, the question of privatisation is not all a dogma, it is the matter to be dealt with in individual cases. But what takes care of it is quite different: You are the victims of your own narrow-minded ideology, your battle paroles. It is almost religious jealousy, because there is not really a privatization strategy in economic terms, but only a cure of “sales-ayatollahs” that goes to work there. That's my impression! That's why all these things happen! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now the ÖIAG Supervisory Board – the chairman, including the Board of Directors – is left in the rain, one turns around on the paragraph – we also have a few experts for that. And what happens? – Politics has not interfered, no! What about your own regulations? I say to you that the right line of politics would be – and to this we also confess – not to govern in the operational and in detail, but to take ourselves into the duty where it is still about public matters. For us, Deutsche Telekom is already an area in which public interests also play a role. This does not mean that it has to remain over 50 percent in public ownership, but public interests must always be taken into account in a key operation of the infrastructure for the Austrian economy. I have the impression that there are very different things that have dominated – and not so much the question of what the optimal solution for the future can be. I agree, however, and therefore I agree with the concrete occasion that our analysis is not as sharp as that of the applicants, i.e. SPÖ. It is true, for example, on the question of price losses, of course, so that you have to admit, of course, that those price gains that have previously occurred because of speculation on this deal have to be deducted. I do not think that this knowledge can be shut down. The question should also be asked, to what extent, in the long term, the adoption of a strategic partner could not be useful. But exactly that is why the question of what to do is to answer clearly: In this form, the privatisation order to ÖIAG must be withdrawn from our view. You have to gain time to have a good climate for any sale on the stock market. In our opinion, there is no need for anything to be done at the moment, but if there is a reasonable opportunity to use the proceeds, you can think about it. However, it is much more essential that 25 percent plus a share – perhaps more – remain in public ownership in order to keep a foothold for the further question of the so-called – now I do not say: Austrian interest, but the interest of the industrial and economic location Austria. That is why you have our offer to change the ÖIAG law in an area in which restrictions might be useful in the future. You seem to have been caught by a pan. I do not want to criticize this at all, because at that time we almost overlooked it and only criticized it globally. But if the ÖIAG Act looks such that at some point even reasonable restrictions may not take place, we will not be able to put that into practice right now and here. Finally, the accusation of insider trade. – This is in itself a matter of financial market supervision and others, but if the policy has had a preliminary knowledge – which seems to be the case – it is already quite a question of deadlines and why it was not done earlier. There are sometimes only a few seconds, but in this case it has actually been about days. That's why it's not quite clear that you're pressing that way. And that is why, in my view, there is also one of the rare cases in which a committee of inquiry is justified on economic policy issues, for he is not always. Mr Bundeskanzler, I would ask you to take a position on these things. We're a non-profit finance minister. You, Mr Bundeskanzler, have the main responsibility for things, but with your silence in reality you only cover up the crisis of trust and the weakness of leadership. Perhaps you would like to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e4968	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e4987	Mr President. High house! Mr Kogler, I would like to address these questions, because I believe that this is the way to discuss them. You don't need a special meeting, but okay, if the occasion is already given, we'll use it. First of all, one should differentiate: The personal policy decisions in the ÖIAG Group – one of the most important industrial groups in all of Austria, and they will be in the future – are not the same as you have claimed. Let's just take the leadership of the individual businesses once! There you have a Director-General Wais, a Director-General Sundt, a Director-General Eder, a Director-General Ruttenstorfer, you have a Dr. Raidl there and you have a Dr. Sernetz. If you count, then you will see that the majority of these Director-Generals do not come from the sympathy circles of the FPÖ or those of the ÖVP, but they are mostly from the circle of the Social Democrats. Therefore, once again: Why do you want to make all these managers and their work bad? I think one of the great successes of our common privatisation, industrial and location policy is that no one today asks what kind of attitude a manager has. But we expect them to write black numbers – even if they have a red mind. That's the difference too early! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, We take this very seriously. I have been an economic politician for 25 years, this is my profession, and I take it very seriously. I have always been disturbed by the fact that politics has been involved, that there has been some sort of instruction. The results of this have already been presented today: how this happened, which then suddenly had to be shot at billions of taxpayers. The big difference too early is that today we are trying to get the best out strategic. That's what the ÖIAG is supposed to do. And one can be quite critical in detail, but we still evaluate the ÖIAG according to its overall performance! And here is what Willi Molterer impressively quoted, for every professional, for everyone who knows himself, comprehensible: The ÖIAG had a debt of more than 6 billion in 2000, today it has almost € 4.5 billion less in debt! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Puswald and Mag. Worm.]] The ÖIAG has privatized a lot – by a total of €4 billion. And the tension is: The value of the remaining holdings of the ÖIAG Group is higher today – despite privatisations, so participations have been lost – than in 2000! I have to say quite honestly: We should be happy about this together! This is not a party political party on my hat either, but it is a common industrial policy success. Third point: Some of them I have also, openly speaking, not been blamed, for, for example, the question of ‘Minerva’. I guess Sigi Wolf, he's great, a great manager in a great company that has created tens of thousands of jobs in Austria. But that would have bothered me. And I think it's very good and great what ÖIAG did in spite of massive pressure from SPÖ last year: Today you have a voest with an Austrian nuclear shareholder, with more workers than ever before and with better results. Those who spoke the Voest for months last year should today be ashamed of these positive results! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Fourth point – my friend I want to correct Willi Molterer in a single sentence –: In spite of many personal and political differences with Hannes Androsch, I have nothing against him as majority owners of former nationally owned businesses, for the attitude is really secondary in this case. I like what's happening there. On the other hand, I say now also in the question of VA-Tech as an economic politician: I'm not responsible for that, that's the ÖIAG, and I'm going to fight for this freedom to be safeguarded. In a situation where rumors now arise – be they startled, nourished, whatever, even through capital market fantasies – I am in favour of the ÖIAG staying on board in the interests of the company and, if necessary, also involving an increase in capital. But: The ÖIAG is on the train! And I think we can trust her. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Since I try to differentiate, I say to this Swisscom-Telekom Austria project: I personally would have found this very interesting if two medium-sized countries, such as Switzerland and Austria, which, of course, is much greater than Telekom Austria, in this area than the Swisscom, do not “feat” each other, so that no sale takes place, but that these two countries are pooling their forces there. – And how should one look out for something other than through constructive and confidential conversations?! – There is nothing to blame the ÖIAG! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: But not so...!]] It would be to blame her if she had completely ignored such a chance! I say quite openly: From the very beginning, I have had my doubts as to whether Switzerland has been able to achieve these harsh conditions, which a Supervisory Board of ÖIAG has designed, namely Dr. Achleitner, an absolute professional, the Chief Financial Officer of Allianz AG, whether Switzerland will really be able to do so in the end. But: This would have been an interesting project to implement these measures. At the end I was inaugurated by Karl-Heinz Grasser. By the way, I immediately informed the social partners – and I say this publicly here too, so that there is no rumor – of my knowledge and their opinion, both of the Presidents of the Chamber of Commerce and of the Presidents of the Trade Union Confederation. [[Abg. Scheibner: He's not here today, look, look!]] I believe that it would not even have been so uninteresting to bring about such a great solution if this had been accepted by Switzerland – on the basis of our hard conditions. I also say quite openly: The decision was right – since Switzerland was not able to do this and its chief negotiator has left practically in the rain on this matter – that the other alternative was then gone. To do all that afterwards, as an economist, I find it a pity, with confidence. One can discuss some things, not at all a question, but one, Mr Klubobmann Cap, I can tell you quite openly: What makes me indignant, personally outraged, is your premise that some responsible person – whether in the ÖIAG, in the Supervisory Board, a negotiator, a member of the government, or otherwise an insider – even had the idea of earning millions with insider trade! [[Call the SPÖ:Check! Examining!]] Mr. Klubobmann Cap, be ashamed of this submission! I take it for myself that we reject it and reject it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That, Mr Klubobmann Cap, I can tell you quite honestly, quite openly – we know each other for a long time –: I never came up with the idea – never! – towards an opposition politician – with whom, of course, I have to cross the sword many times or seek the rhetorical debate in Parliament; I like to do this here in Parliament; [[Abg. Bures: Approve a Committee of Inquiry!]] They always make me happy when I can stand here and talk, discuss and argue – to formulate such a dirty thought! I really don't want this to happen here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I lay my hand for myself, for my cabinet in the fire! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] Last point. Mr Gusenbauer, on the basis of your question – and this leads us back to why we also have to address other issues – says: “immensible damage to Austria’s economic location”. And as one who has really, through many years, made a great effort to improve this location, so that we are so good together today – of course, this is not only my success, but a common success of all of us, in whatever function, saying: If in these days, specifically yesterday, a SPÖ economic programme is presented, which is diametrically opposed to our efforts, then we may, yes, have to address it. If the SPÖ, if Alfred Gusenbauer, a few months ago, criticises us that the tax rate is too high – but if we lower it anyway, is written into a new SPÖ economic programme, that the tax rate should not fall, but not fall below, that is all but congruent! We lower taxes – and you from SPÖ are now against a reduction in the tax rate! That doesn't fit together! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] Think of the complaints in your time of government: too high a burden on wages and salaries, too high pay-side costs. – With great effort, we have reduced these by €800 million in the last four years. All the proposals you submit from the SPÖ in your so-called economic concept – a concept that, as Androsch says, is largely headlined – are based on a further burden on human labour and are therefore quite contrary to the efforts we have from the government parties to the economic location of Austria! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No! On the contrary!]] We strive, for years, to get international business settlements to Austria: also with the thought of setting up regional headquarters for Central and South-East Europe with us. And there are, of course, the 25 percent corporate tax and the group tax, which is attractive, as well as the research taxation, which is the best in all of Europe, an unheard of attractive “worm” at the fishing hook to bring in investors. If you say about the SPÖ now in your concept: We do not want to do all that, almost international corporations must not pay less and less taxes; we are taking back the group taxation that is attractive – and not once again –!, yes, friends, we can put forth effort as we want, it will not work! International investors are usually “sleeve deer”, they are then gone – and then blame is not the “evil federal government”, but: Debt is such a concept that will drive investors into crowds! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, should also be known to the public on a day like today, where hopefully many are watching and pursuing this debate. You, Mr Cap and Mr Gusenbauer, told Karl-Heinz Grasser that he was not able to do the wrong thing. – As you know: A double denunciation is lifted up. Karl-Heinz Grasser does the right thing – and he also has my full support.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e5180	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Hornek:... the water stands up to the neck!]] His speaking time is 5 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e5220	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Before the German Chancellor's remarks, I was already at the point where I wanted to beg you for not being able to discuss the issue of what is going on today, namely the disaster Telekom. [[Abg. Murauer: Great!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Tax raiser!]] In the first part of his remarks, the Chancellor's backsliding on key issues, such as the increase in capital, has brought new impulses, which, for the first time after the insanity – as Mr Kogler said correctly: the "ayatollah-moderate sale" to devil – at least have new sounds coming out. Unfortunately, at the end of his speech, Mr. Bundeskanzler turned to what Mr. Molterer and Mr. Scheibner have already begun: with false reports about the intentions of social democracy to insure people with false reports. [[Abg. Scheibner: (keeping a writing in height) That's in your paper!]] Your criticism, Mr Bundeskanzler, meets one person: Mr Scheibner, who said that we social democrats want to talk about it for those people who deserve so little – we should talk about it because, according to your own statement, it is about 2.1 million people – that they don't pay taxes, think about how they get more money into their wallet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You already distance yourself from your paper before you have published it!]] Before I come to the issue of Telekom Austria and to the fundamental questions, briefly to your questions, such as who are the responsible persons who are guilty of alleged “desisters of the past” – as the colleague Molterer has called it. We still have ministers in office today. Do I remember wrong, or was not the current Federal Chancellor even the Minister of Economic Affairs? And here, for example, I find things like the “traffic office ” and others! [[Abg. May. Worm: This!]] That is why we should perhaps remain on the subject of these matters. It was a common policy to get out of the 100% share of the national states. We have led a successful model where a state minority ownership – the state is a core shareholder – has ensured that the location of Austria flourishes. We have always known about this common policy – only you of the ÖVP pretend to have been another party of the government partners between 1989 and the beginning of 2000. It was the ÖVP, and I would like to remind you of that, Mr Molterer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But let us now turn to the central question: Telekom Austria. By the way, to clarify if someone wants to say this for the second time: We have never planned nor called for the small savings books to be taxed, we have never planned and demanded, even I have not that the basic tax be increased. [[Abg. Scheibner: Of course! Who else!]] They're precepts from you. – Only for clarification, so that this issue is dealt with. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore come to our present problem child: Karl-Heinz Grasser. Mr. Federal Minister, you have informed us in your answer that you are around 10. August Vice-Chancellors and Federal Chancellors have informed us that a serious stage of negotiations has been achieved at Swisscom. The Federal Chancellor has urgently asked us to distance ourselves from the question of whether, under certain circumstances, the German Chancellor, I say this clearly, not you as a person, of the people who knew, this knowledge was used. Anyone who has the “profile” this week sees when the decisive price rise was up. [[the speaker refers to the corresponding edition of the ‘profile’]] It was only – and therefore the financial market supervision has to take action – justice at the time when the information of the other members of the government has taken place. I therefore also put forward a motion for a resolution which states that the Federal Minister for Finance is expressly seeking a resolution in accordance with Article 74(1). 1 B-VG the trust is denied, and I justify it as follows: The inaction or action of the Minister of Finance has caused a damage to the financial centre, a damage to the well-belief investors, who are not all speculators, who have been left with the 11.59 course again, a damage to the ÖIAG, who has lost its credibility, which can never lead to serious negotiations, and it has resulted in a damage to Telekom Austria, a parade company in our country, which is now only acting as something that policy has. [[Abg. Ellwall: Activity or inactivity?]] I would like to, and I say this deliberately, with regard to our motion for a resolution: Take seriously the words that Mr Kogler has said. Let's think and change the OIAG law! Let us try together to make something meaningful! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e5375	Mr Matznetter's motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, Dr Cap, colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser is sufficiently supported and under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e5500	We continue in the debate. The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Dr. stupid. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e5523	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The debate is now running for almost two hours, and I think it is in the sense of a certain political culture, to say thank you. I thank colleague Dr. Gusenbauer for this special meeting. The live broadcast on television enables what is the basis of democracy. The citizens should be able to make a fair picture of policy options, and I believe that today's debate allows this to happen. Secondly, I would like to thank colleague Dr. Matznetter for optimal timing in the presentation of his economic concept. We can also discuss this very well today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I also agree, Mr Gusenbauer, that I say quite openly here in public: I admire your political courage to demand a special session with a twofold goal, where you had to know from the outset, that is not to win. The aim is to remove the Minister of Finance. I don’t know if you read this article by Günther Nenning yesterday in the “Kronen Zeitung”. Under the quotation of Kreisky, he meant: “If you want to get rid of someone, you have to choose a weak one.” – They chose the wrong ones: a strong, successful finance minister. He has our support and the trust of the entire government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Incredible courage, ladies and gentlemen, also means choosing the national policy as the theme of the special session. You cannot win this debate, Mr Gusenbauer! You can't win them! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] For 30 years we have had state-owned policy under SPÖ responsibility: in the sense of industrial policy as the government's administration in industrial enterprises. – Result: deficient, subsidized state enterprises. For four years now, the political turnaround. What do we have today? – Successful, privatized, profit-oriented, listed companies. The numbers were called, I don't need to repeat them anymore. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] An incredible admirable political courage to make this the theme of a special session, knowing that one cannot actually win! But let's leave the past, let's stay with it. The largest industrial plate in the history of the Second Republic: National crisis; largest trading gap in the history of the Second Republic: “consumer” claims; greatest asset destruction: Bank Austria's sale to the hypo. Let's leave the past, let's deal with the future! I am really grateful to Mr Matznetter – and I have already discussed with him today in the 'Mitagsjournal' – for the presentation of his economic concept, because it should be possible in democracy, the voters should have options. We stand for stability in the government budget through budget adjustment from the expenditure side. Mr Matznetter says budget recovery from the revenue side. – Two completely different concepts. The voters can take a picture. We say tax reduction, the biggest tax reduction in the history of the Second Republic: 3 billion €, from the small man to the location security for the businesses. Mr Matznetter says that taxes are increasing. – Two clear concepts, to 180 degrees differently structured. Thirdly, we say that further successful privatisation of the state-owned industry. Mr Matznetter says that the state needs to get primacy about the economy again. – Two completely contrary, different positions. Fourthly, like many others in European industrialised countries, we must do everything we can to ensure the efficiency of the social and welfare state and its financing in the long term. Mr Matznetter says that the social state must be extended, it must be financed through new taxes, it must be financed by increasing the maximum contribution base. However, Mr Matznetter forgets that today the person who pays contributions from the maximum contribution base pays for the same health insurance benefits netly five times as much as the one who pays his contributions just above the minimum level. Matznetter wants an even more radical redistribution. In summary, ladies and gentlemen: I believe that today's special session is quite valuable for democracy policy, even if special sessions, I admit that they are never very popular. But thank you, Mr Gusenbauer, he is due to Mr Matznetter; the elector can make a fair picture of the individual concepts. We stand for stability in the state budget, we stand for tax cuts, we stand for an increase in the efficiency and security of the welfare state, we are for an attractive economic location in terms of jobs, income opportunities and social security. Mr Finanzminister! I am always careful with forecasts, but you will survive today's session very successfully.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e5631	Mr Böhmdorfer is next speaker. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e5649	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I have to say, Mr President, that it has really gotten to the point. Their words reflected exactly what everyone who has followed this debate closely must think. And since I am used to arguing with facts as a lawyer, once again, after I have written a few words at today's sitting, I would like to make this sitting happen in a sense. The meeting was started with Mr Gusenbauer's comments. You, Dr. Gusenbauer, have had a great opportunity to represent your position. Read the protocol! You can't find your own idea in it. You've been content to read from newspapers – MP Molterer said it was almost embarrassing – headlines from newspapers that you didn't explain any more. You just forgot to read on. You have forgotten to read what Mr Androsch said about your economic programme. It is devastating what he has said so far. And as he expressed himself, there is still a lot to follow. I believe that this will still be terrible for you, although today you have had the opportunity to have a level debate on your programme. You've rejected this opportunity! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Minister of Finance has – I am perhaps one of the few who can think of him, because as Minister of Justice I have also survived seven mistrusts here in the National Council, i.e. seven times the House has expressed confidence in me; this is what I am strengthening, Mr Finanzminister; I know how it is – the Minister of Finance has responded in admirable calmly to the statements made by the opposition speakers. Federal Minister Grasser has clearly said – no speaker of SPÖ has taken up this afterwards – that Austria's interests should be safeguarded in the case of privatisations. No one took that from the SPÖ. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – You have pretended as if you hadn’t heard it, anyway: You didn't take it! Federal Minister Grasser has also mentioned 30 years of economic policy, which – as far as it was responsible for SPÖ – does not really mean fame. The Minister of Finance has also pointed out that seven companies have been sold entirely by you. – Again no response from you from the SPÖ! However, on one of the Ministers of State Grasser did not point out – but I would have liked that – that the “consumer” has also been one of these pleite companies! The “consumer” plea was the greatest pleite of post-war history: 26 billion schilling liabilities! This is almost an “art”, at least a embarrassment and humiliation of your SP friends. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Your concept of democracy is crying out to heaven! That's inconceivable!]] Mr Cap had the opportunity to replicate Mr Financier as the next speaker, to attack Mr Grasser's Minister of Finance objectively, to criticize him. – However: Nothing came! But You continued your lecture exercises and quoted newspaper news from the “Small Newspaper”, “profile”, “Press”, “EconomicsSheet” and so on. Just quotes, nothing else! In turn, only the headlines! You didn't explain that to me, nothing! It's not difficult! As always, you, Mr Cap, have polemized quite well, which was partly interesting and partly funny, but: It was by no means factual, it was also not convincing in content! You, Mr Cap, then spoke about the reputation of Austria. – To this end: Why don't you take a look at your contribution to the debate? This one was a single attack on the reputation of Austria! If you carry out such attacks hollow and with words, but then nothing follows, it is embarrassing and exposes you! Somehow I reminded myself of the time of the EU “punishments” to attack Austria and expect it to be taken up abroad. – It’s embarrassing if this goes on with you! You'll be honest at last! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since this urgent question was too little for Mr Cap, he referred, of course, to the homepage of Federal Minister Grasser and here again claimed wrong. The few facts you have mentioned, Mr Cap, are wrong. For example, you have mentioned a 75 percent basis. – That’s not true! In this case, it is not on the basis of the calculation, but on the alleged or supposed tax amount. And that's quite another thing! In this case, this is less than half. Read, Mr Cap, once again – and this is already true in newspapers – and then you may gain new insights. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In addition, I say to you: In Austria, the presumption of innocence is valid! You, Mr Cap, are not the “Obersatsanwalt der Nation”! You're not the last instance in our country at the courts! Please include allegations that you cannot prove – and that are also wrong! It is a pity that you are attacking Austria from SPÖ in this way! There's a finance minister sitting here who's really trying. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] They have noted in the applause that these efforts are accompanied by success, as well as objective figures show this. Therefore, please find the subject matter! [[New call to the SPÖ.]] I would like to thank Mr Molterer and Mr Scheibner, because they have really argued with facts and facts – because they are just about them. And I would also like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who said: Hands away from politics from the economy! If that goes on, I can only say: a good way!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e5756	Mrs Sburny has now reached the speaker's desk for 5 minutes. Please, Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e5774	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! On the side of the government today the “privatisation” of Telekom Austria was mentioned. – To this end: This proposed merger between two close-to-state enterprises, namely Telekom Austria and Swisscom, cannot be the subject of privatisation! And this may have been a point of the end of the deal, because Minister Grasser, among other things, did not notice in one and a half years' negotiations that it was not about privatisation, but about mergers and therefore a change of law would be necessary. It must not be surprising, however, that Federal Minister Grasser does not notice such a thing, because Minister Grasser, in his argumentation, lives so to speak, “depolitics” everything, but he does not mean to release something from political influence – far away from that, as we see from many examples – but to bring certain things past Parliament, or by bringing in various legislative drafts under pressure or in a Husch-Puch procedure. In this case, however, the Minister of Finance simply did not succeed because it would have required a change in the ÖIAG law. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Liselotte Palme does not assume in the “profile” to the Minister that he would not have known that – and I do not think that, here, no one will put it here – but that he simply does not care because Telekom Austria is not really interested in him. But that is the point, I think, where Parliament needs to become aware, because I believe that we must be interested in, for example, the operation of Telekom Austria. Telekom Austria is a major infrastructure company in Austria – and not just that: It is one of the largest companies in Austria, and therefore we are very interested in how the process was within the ÖIAG, but also in what influence the government has tried to take; even if it is always fighting this again and again. What this would be about is a discussion of the importance of such a company as Telekom Austria. This is not about saying that a strategic partnership is not in question, but from our point of view it is about examining: What strategies do we want to drive in Austria, how do we want to and should we deal with such important companies in order to retain certain functions like a headquarters function here and still secure the public task? There, I believe, is an essential point that is never discussed here, for example, the relationship between government, government and ÖIAG. – The ÖIAG has a privatisation mission in principle, and when privatisations take place, it is always about how and what framework conditions are created to ensure that public tasks, even if they are no longer designed by a public hand, still work. That means what to do, for example, so that a service is comprehensive, does not become too expensive and is also available in certain quality – regardless of whether it is about education tasks, about water supply or, for example, about the supply of communication. But that's exactly where you refuse the discussion of the government parties! I would now like to refer to a proposal which, interestingly, made by Heinrich Neisser, in the early 1990s, which we have taken up by the Greens and which Eva Glawischnig has brought into the Austrian Convention. It is a question of what opportunities there are for close-to-state businesses to be controlled by Parliament. This is not possible right now: Farms where the State is only more nuclear shareholders can no longer be controlled by Parliament; any control is excluded. At the time, Heinrich Neisser raised the question of why the control of the management of federal entrepreneurs in a parliamentary committee should not be discussed, for example, in order to be able to exercise these parliamentary control rights again. We have included this proposal in Neissers and brought it into the Austrian Convention. However, this is not at all discussed. However, this is exactly the question if you want to further privatize or liberalize: Which framework conditions are to be set – at the moment you will not succeed – so that just comprehensive care at a reasonable price will be guaranteed in good quality for all Austrians and will not benefit private companies and will simply release the public hand from their responsibilities! That's the big mistake you're making here and where you're very likely to ask yourself the question: How is political responsibility perceived? – and not in the sense of a Minister of Finance Grasser's political influence over people here!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e5850	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. He's talking for five minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e5869	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A comment to my colleague: Minister Grasser boldly presented him as completely undisputed. I would just like to quote Uwe Scheuch, Secretary General of the Freedom Party, who said the following about Minister Grasser: He was all through the party. Without Jörg Haider, for example, he might be a car seller in Klagenfurt. His betrayal will never forget the FPÖ. It will also harm him in the future. Loyalty is not in his service. - Quote. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] They will have the opportunity to clarify and explain this. But here's also: Grasser plays with important companies “Monopoly”. This is the position of a government partner on the so important form of privatisation. - Quote. I would like to make one more point: There was so much discussion about the Voestalpine today. If social democracy had not been caught in 1986 in the context of the very big steel crisis of this company, you could no longer quote from here today the success story of this great flagship of the Austrian industry! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That was the taxpayer, not the Social Democracy!]] There was a single difference between the other European companies and steel companies: There the governments have given lost subsidies. – The then Minister of Finance Lacina said: No, no, no, I want the money back. These are the debts. – Other countries have given this, have taken over debt-free businesses, and we have given them loans. That's the technical difference, and you really have to take note of that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A second important point which has been strongly highlighted in the discussion today: It was suddenly called managers like Ruttenstorfer, Sundt, Eder, Sernetz or Raidl. – They are not responsible for the disaster of privatisation! It has never sold a manager of the daughter, so to speak, its own company! The diletants can be found in the ÖIAG, and there is also a quote from Worm, who said: Here is a line leading by the Minister of Finance over highly paid ÖIAG managers and through ÖIAG Supervisory Boards who have actually achieved this privatisation diletantism. But what is particularly important and what has also been addressed today is the beautiful word that has been tried at Telekom to do a business merger between Telekom and Swisscom. – I believe that this word “business merger” must be questioned. What's that about? In the end, Swisscom would have the absolute majority and the ÖIAG 11 percent. Federal Chancellor Schüssel! Minister of Finance Grasser! If you really know yourself economically, if you really know the stock law and if you also quote Achleitner, then you know that you have nothing to say in the company with 11 percent share! This would be a clear departure of responsibility for Austrian interests to Switzerland! It is really cruel for me to think that the Board of Directors should report to Bern, and it is cruel if I imagine that the Swiss are responsible for the state of the Austrian information and telecommunications industry. This is the way that we Social Democrats do not want to go! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are some representatives of agriculture here. – None of these farmers would think of selling his cows from whose milk he lives! But here it is: The cows of the Republic are tossed, and the consequence is that we have to buy the milk back expensive! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is your problem! You have milked the nationalized industry! That's not a milk cow!]] And this is not so sure either, because the Swiss would decide whether they would give us milk at all and at what conditions. – We are against this sale! We Socialists have a clear model, which is also documented in the economic programme. We are in favour of the mixed ownership structure, in which there are public core shareholders as well as private shareholders. And that was the secret of success. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is our approach to sustainable industrial policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e5963	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Comrades and others, has been sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon's word. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e5985	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government members! High house! I also think that now is a good time to discuss the Federal Government's economic policy, especially because we now also have the SPÖ's counter-conception on the table. [[Abg. Gradual Goodness: And thanks be to God!]] As one who is located in the Obersteiermark, who has learned the impact of national policy and who, I think, can very well assess how the plants stand today and how they are up 20 to 30 years ago, I can say that the former ÖIAG companies, such as the voestalpine, the AT&S and Böhler-Uddeholm, are on an excellent, successful path in the Obersteiermark. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Bravo!]] I can therefore only, on the basis of my personal experience and personal conviction, insist that the privatisations are pursued and consistently implemented in accordance with the government programme. There are difficulties in view of the fact that national lighting policy is seen only on farms. That's too little from my point of view. Whoever believes that national policy has affected only the state-owned enterprises, is extremely wrong! In fact, we still have to fight infinitely against what national policy has done in this region. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I think the farms have recovered faster than the region. We have assured the managers and also the many good employees that they are doing this job well, and they are doing it great! They prove themselves very, very good on the world market and do great work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We can say that the employees and managers make their job very excellent because they can. You don't need the policy of day-to-day business, you have to say that very clearly and clearly. But the SPÖ does not really want that. The SPÖ misrepresents any form of independence. They distrust self-employment, and you do not want this self-employment, because the indifference is in reality the basic prerequisite for making people dependent. – That is the aim of the SPÖ! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dobnigg.]] We still have these dependent structures also in the Voest operations, dear Karl Dobnigg! I've criticized this for the last time. We cut down 6 000 employees, and the only department that grew up was the Department of Works Councils. We had 40 works councils at 8,000 employees in 1980, today we have 50 works councils, estimated ladies and gentlemen at 2,000 employees. That shows where the SPÖ wants! I've already mentioned it: The national policy had a dramatic impact on the region. In Leoben, we have had to pay from 40 000 inhabitants to 25 000 inhabitants. We are in iron ore in the situation that we have infrastructure and apartments for 15,000 people, but only more than 4,000 people live there. That is to say, in iron ore, we have to take reconstruction measures and adapt the infrastructure. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dobnigg.]] I am personally on the basis of this experience – and I think you will understand this – of national-allergic. I don't want to hear about it anymore, because I know what the consequences this has brought in my home country! I am very grateful that Mr Matzenetter has spoken plain text here. [[Abg. Broukal: He's called Matznetter! When will you finally remember that?]] I live in a socialist-dominated region. And what he recorded in writing is happening in the socialist municipalities: The taxes are increased, private individuals are constantly competing through urban farms. This is the ideology of the Matzenetter program. [[Abg. Dr. One: He's called Matz- nicer!]] All private initiatives are undermined by local authorities. I should like to thank Mr Matznetter for this clarification. I also believe that this will be an important distinguishing feature for the next few months. I experience this programme every day in my home country, in the socially democratically run region of Obersteiermark.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6099	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6118	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting to sit here and see how the ÖVP as an ex-governmental partner of the great coalition and the SPÖ as an ex-governmental partner of this coalition form are blaming each other, where money would have been destroyed over the last 30 years. That's quite interesting to see! There are facts going back and forth, and one puzzles who has the responsibility. As a young Member of a party who was in no way responsible for this debt policy, I must say honestly. It's very interesting to see that! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The fact is: Thank God there is – and we are proud of it – the liberals who clean up with it. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] At the federal level, we do good work together with the ÖVP and renovate the budget. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Parnigoni, before you start laughing: In Carinthia – see! – make the liberals with SPÖ a good policy and renovate the country. That means we can do it with both parts! Mrs. Glawischnig, only with the greens we haven't made it yet! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] They're so small everywhere that we can't form government. But if you should get stronger, we can also try to clean up the country with the greens! It has already been said a lot. I can especially befriend myself with what Mr. Dr. stupidly said that today the cameras really bring the truth to light. When you go after the media, it is always noted that there is the possibility of cutting, the possibility of Defaulting and the possibility of misinterpreting. Today, however, the running cameras really show that the SPÖ is driving a populist game that is looking for the same thing. If you look at the counter-arguments of the coalition partner and the liberals, I would just like the two cameras to turn left and right again into the SPÖs. Then one would realize that either no one is there anymore, because you have already taken the escape route, or you would see very long faces with deep folds, because it is simply recognized that very little has happened in this area.) But that should also be the reason why it is not really so much about Deutsche Telekom today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] He who screams isn't right! I have already learned this as a young representative, and you should know that as an old-fashioned rabbit, Mr. Cot. Whoever screams is not right in this house! From the “consumer” bankruptcy to the bank Austria Scandal: It has already been listed so much, I don't want to repeat it at all. But I would very much like to refer once again to this great economic policy of the SPÖ. And since today seems to be the day of the quotations, I took along a newspaper from Carinthia, the “Small Newspaper”, a leaf that is not really close to the FPÖ. In this you will find a very interesting article: “It would have been a new, forward-looking foundation on which the SPÖ could have built.... But SPÖ budget speaker Christoph Matznetter presented a low-nutrient muesli from social-Romantic retro fruit and poisoned cornflakes for the upper middle layer.” This is not of us liberals, but it shows very clearly what really happened here. – And, on the other hand, it says: “His design is dry, unconcrete and half-hearted in the departure of old dogmas.” – It is therefore not to be distinguished. Finally, a small sentence is added: “The party must decide. Market plus Marx results in Murks.” Mr Matznetter, I think you really lost every claim today to come as future Minister for Finance. [[Abg. Scheibner: Matznetter has already fled!]] That's right, Mr Klubobmann, he's not in the hall anymore! He probably has to satisfy all the disappointed red voters on the phone who complain that the SPÖ is making a special meeting on such a topic, and that with a performance that is looking for the same! But – we have heard this before – the self-proclaimed agricultural speaker Moser will come to his aid, hopefully this programme of the economy will also improve slightly and thus contribute to the hope that in the final effect a little light will come into the dark of these headings. To say, there is a lot, even a lot. For example, we could also talk about the content of this economic programme. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have to imagine this: Col. Gusenbauer wants to delete the child's money, in second instance tax the house builders, and now – and that's really fascinating! – he comes to the public with the proposal to tax all the small, brave savers with higher savings rates! – That is really worrying, and that should actually give a party that uses social competence for itself, but to think! Finally, as always, I am very happy to do this and still have to do it today – a few facts. In view of 2 200 billion schilling debts, you can only say: 30 years of the SPÖ economy! Ladies and gentlemen! People should know this in front of the TV: That's 144 million a day! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] The Greens are not a problem in the government! – I repeat: That's 144 million schilling a day more debts! Six million schillings per hour have increased the debt under the SPÖ government! With this money, we could probably pay for Deutsche Telekom, double pensions, and make sure that the good, reasonable economic policy of this government continues as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6203	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. Speaking time: 5 minutes. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6224	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I come back to the matter after these somewhat generous devastations of my predecessor. [[Abg. Scheibner: There we are already very excited!]] Mr Finanzminister! Your “Privatisation Coup Swisscom-Telekom” has really negotiated a totally sad criticism in the specialist press, as we have already been very vividly presented to us today. Just look at the press mirror, Minister! There you can read: Sale – sale. – Wide front against the sale of the country. – Completely desperate. – As a member of the opposition, I only need to hold this once again as a starting point. Secondly, Mr Finanzminister, we are dealing with the following matters: One of the most competent Austrian companies is at stake from the point of view of the number of employees, the economic potential and also the possibilities of expansion. This company has a share of non-insignificant 42 percent in state property, and I am now deliberately speaking as owner representative and taxpayer representative: We have a great opportunity here for economic policy, employment policy and certainly also location policy. Our disaster and your disaster is this so-called “privatisation order”. This privatisation order should break your tongue every day, because it is practically like an egg-legging wool milk sauce. [[Abg. Scheibner: It doesn't break me on the tongue!]] You want to have a lot of income for the budget, you want to secure the location at the same time, you want to develop the company, you want to serve the stock exchange, and you also want to provide employment. – Achieving these five goals at the same time – every expert will tell you – and this will be explained to you by Director Wieltsch with pleasure and pleasure daily – is a thing of the impossibility. That's a circle vitiosus, that's not possible! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Finanzminister! You have never shown honesty to tell me what is now the primary objective. What is it about as a matter of priority? Is this about employment? Is this about the company? Is it about the location? Or is it about the budget? In this constant target conflict, to have to decide between five goals, you enslave, with relatively much inconsistency and relatively much damage to the Austrian economic location and to the central telecommunications company of Austria. Just a very small example: It is important whether Deutsche Telekom really provides broadband Internet to all Austrians or not. We have often discussed this – I am looking towards the mayor of the ÖVP, also towards the farmers' federal representatives –: There are also people in the small villages, the people in the rear valleys are entitled to a good infrastructure! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The companies there are also entitled to equal competition. It makes a difference whether a foreign group decides: here I do not invest anything, because it does not bring me any profit!, or whether we have the power to give the contract of corporate policy to these development tasks via Telekom with Austrian core shareholder ownership. That's the central point. Mr Finanzminister, with your announcement to bring Deutsche Telekom to the stock exchange, you have – and I would like to address a disastrous future perspective – virtually a halali of all major corporations for the enemy takeover of this show business in Austria. It is our great fear that now, after your flop in Switzerland, after this zigzag course, which was a logical consequence on the basis of the privatisation order, you will start the second and probably all the more disastrous scenario, namely the stock exchange, after which there will be no core shareholder ÖIAG and no Austrian participation as in the Voest. We don't have 2 billion again, all Austrian banks together can't put 2 billion on the table again. But then comes the enemy takeover! Is this right for you that Deutsche Telekom will become a branch, a branch of a multi from the UK or Germany? – I think that we all agree here, all the employees and all colleagues of the ÖVP: We don't want that! Only: A second time it doesn't play the Voest! That's why it says: If we want to have a future for a central Austrian company, with its employees and also with its infrastructure and quality tasks for the Austrian population, take a distance from the stock market! [[Abg. Scheibner: Talk time!]] Strategic concepts are necessary for Austrian corporations, and not [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Don't think and just deal! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6305	Next, Mr. State Secretary Mag. Mainoni in word. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6323	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This discussion on the occasion of the special meeting proves once again how the Austrian Federal Government's path to privatisation is. You yourself, Dr. Gusenbauer, say literally that it is “good and right” that the sale has been stopped; So you're our opinion anyway. However, I do not know why a request for distrust against Mr Finanzminister was made. [[Inter-calls by Deputies Dr. Herber and Dr. Matznetter.]] But what I know very well – and the role of the opposition is very important – is the starting position that was given when we entered the government. What was the starting position in relation to the national lights? – A high level of public debt, mostly due to the fact that money has been transferred to the national industry; nevertheless, a highly indebted national industry, and ultimately 50,000 jobs lost in this state industry, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's it!]] That was the starting position in which we took place. That is why it was perfectly clear that our government programme was aimed at achieving two objectives in privatization; these were also the priority here, in the discussion on participation in Swisscom. The two objectives are: Increased value for businesses as a primary objective of privatisation and long-term job security in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I can give you a few figures. When the government took over in 2000, the value of state enterprises was about €5 billion. In the meantime, a sales revenue of about €4 billion has been achieved, and the value that the state holds here has grown to €5.8 billion. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Who is “we” now?]] You see, then, that privatisation is a very useful tool, which is also to be able to increase the value of companies. The debt in this context – and this is the second part – amounted to €6.29 billion at the beginning of 2000, and has now been reduced to €1.76 billion in total. It is also very important in this context – the Minister of Finance has already mentioned it – that the ÖIAG is now able to pay interest from the debt with its own dividends. In other words, for the first time in 30 years of national industry, the nationalized industry itself is carrying on, and that means: The taxpayer no longer needs to contribute, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now to the Telekom. – Dear ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I can recall the sales adventure of Telekom Austria in connection with the Telecom Italia under the government of Vranitzky/Clima. They will not be able to deny that at that time it was simply a strategic mistake to join the Telecom Italia. There were no synergies, there were only blockades, and it was detrimental for both companies. Thank God this connection has been dissolved again, but one must maintain in the result: It was a strategic mistake of the then government under the leadership of Vranitzky and climate, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As a member of the government, I would like to refrain from agreeing with SPÖ's competence on privatisation issues. However, after much has been quoted today, I allow myself to do so, but another “press” article of 23. To quote August. Under the title “Fachmann Gusenbauer”, Mr. Ortner writes “A SPÖ..., which showed in Vienna how to privatize a bank, and which by the way has made it possible for the mobile com to be reduced to billions among socialist finance ministers to save the budget – such a social democratic party “cannot claim the worst credibility to explain to the government now how to privatize it properly.” [[Abg. Broukal: We have heard this before!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This is really pathetic...!]] – This is not from us, but from an independent journalist. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll come to Swisscom for a second. It was true! The Austrian influence on job security, on location security, especially on strengthening the Austrian capital market, was not guaranteed. It is this special meeting – the last sentence, Madam President – which is a bad example of this SPÖ's political scandalisation show. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] We are working unobstructed and successful, and the people in Austria know this!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6430	The next speaker was Mrs Bures. The total remaining time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6450	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the need and importance of this special meeting have been demonstrated in particular by the fact that this government has exhausted itself exclusively in polemics while we have tried to save the VA-Tech from destruction, because Austrian industrial policy is truly at our heart – in contrast to you! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, even if you were busy basking paper flyers, I would like to take the floor if you said today that the sales project around Telekom Austria was all right, you have nothing to hide and there has been no abuse of insider information. I would like to take you to the floor, and that is why I ask myself the question: Why Shame Then you're the light of the public, Mr. Federal Chancellor? Why don't we set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to check exactly that and look at the files on the sale process? – If you have nothing to hide, you agree! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Because it is the financial market supervision...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Then make sure that light comes into this dark matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In addition to the polemics, there were of course a number of very aggressive and false rounds, led by Klubobmann Molterer to my colleague Scheuch at the end. I do not want to deal with this because I usually deal with facts in politics. [[Abg. Scheibner: That would be the first time, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: But that's your young talk!]] I would like to tell you, in fact, that Austria is faced with the highest tax and tax rate by your policy and that the taxpayers in that country are sitting on this government bank! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Matznetter... raise!]] For social democracy, we are at least against an increase in this tax and tax rate, and for more tax justice, but not for an amnesty and not for a tax reform that only favours a few large companies. [[Abg. Scheibner: What about the Matznetter paper now?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Inheritance tax increase, rental increase...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The fact is that we have had the highest unemployment rate in Austria for 50 years: 232 418 people who have no employment and you only face with ignorance and inaction! Fact three – to talk about the facts of your policy – is your financial policy, Federal Minister Grasser. They spoke of the zero deficit; they all know that the empty air bubbles were. Today we have the highest government debt of €145.5 billion, which is almost 11 percent more than four years ago. [[Abg. Scheibner: It must not be true that you address this! That's not your big deal!]] That is what you have to answer, and that is an economic fact in the country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Fact four is the discussion we are having here today: that there have been generations in front of us, who have created and generated a fortune, an Austrian wealth, which you, this Federal Government, are actually wasting in a very irresponsible way today! Whether it's the tried sale of Telekom, whether it's Austria's tobacco plants, or it's 60,000 apartments you're wasting to investors – with you the investors and the speculators will be rich, but not the tenants, but they'll be poorer! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You will actually be rich in stock exchange speculators, and poor will be the small shareholders, those who have bought popular shares – through the wrong policy you pursue! Federal Minister! I appeal to you: In the future, don't make people in this country poorer by their policies only if they are pensioners, whether they are the workers! Don't endanger Austrian jobs! In the future, accept people's concerns! [[Abg. Scheibner: Talk time!]] And if you are not able to leave your golden cage, then step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6633	As the next speaker, Mr President, I should like to speak. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6652	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister and Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ has invited us here today to carry together the last remains of its economic competence. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] We have gladly accepted the invitation because, I believe, the public has a right to participate in this funeral. [[Abg. Gradwell: Mr Secretary-General, what about Deutsche Telekom?]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Nicely superior!]] Maybe a quote to support this? – Matznetter: Policy must “take control of the reins” in the economy. When you last “took control of the reins ” in the economy, the result was a minus of 7 billion people’s wealth and a minus of 50,000 jobs! Please leave your fingers off these reins! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But let's come to Telekom and Swisscom. [[Abg. Oils: Please!]] Mr. Bundeskanzler has already stated that there was no sale of a company to Switzerland, but rather a strategically interesting form of the restriction of two companies, both of which are partly – to a greater or lesser extent – in state property, and that our negotiators from the ÖIAG have achieved such a good negotiating result that it was at the end of the day the Swiss who did not deliver this result in their bodies! Yes, who is to blame on the Austrian side for achieving a good outcome of the negotiations, which is not going through the bodies at the end of the day?- Oh, my God! – But not our negotiators! I wish my negotiators, who bring such results home! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] Mrs Bures, if you do not believe it, then Mr Ortner, who has already been honoured by our Mr. Klubobmann today, “For if there has ever been a state of state in Austria that has made no sense” (as recently as the ‘Neue Zürcher Zeitung’), this was probably the sale of the Bank Austria to the Hypovereinsbank, with the result that today the powerful Bank Austria is the main yielder of weakening Bavaria, the city of Vienna has made a huge loss business and is managed one of the few really important hubs of the local economy from Munich.” – so much to your economic competence in the field of national lights! [[Abg. Brosz: Not again! Please don't!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Matznetter for the second: There is no point in reducing the tax and tax rate at all. Matznetter on the third side: The social state needs to be further expanded. [[Abg. Heinzl: Yes!]] Fourth mat: A high state ratio is – you hear and marvel – “an indicator of the degree of civilisation of a country. So the higher the taxes, the better the people in a country – it's probably just you smart! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I claim: What you see here is dangerous to your location and destroy your workplace. If you don't believe it, Mr. Matznetter, you believe it to Mr. Kramer, who said: At the heart of the efforts to establish the site – and efforts at the site – there must be a reduction in the tax rate. I have the great suspicion that You do not want to do more for everyone, as you claim in the headline of your economic programme, but that you simply and simply want more from everyone! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ has recognized its love for small and medium-sized enterprises. It therefore wants the local tax now also for the self-employed, and it wants to reintroduce the commercial tax – and all of this for small and medium-sized enterprises – that commercial tax that Lacina abolished together with Ditz at the time, because it was a partly income-independent tax that also taxed assets, for small, partly low-income enterprises that did not deserve much. With your programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, you want to put even more emphasis on these. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No!]] We will protect small and medium-sized enterprises from your policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Last but not least, one must be said to the voters, especially in Vorarlberg, who will soon have to make a decision: The SPÖ wants all serious higher savings bank taxes, higher taxes on rental income, it wants to increase social security contributions, increase inheritance tax and reintroduce wealth tax. [[Abg. May. Darabos: Who says that?]] I ask the ladies and gentlemen at home on the screens to really take a picture of what they would expect if they strengthened the SPÖ! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I claim that with this programme the SPÖ punishes the spasms and the virtuous. Ideologically based, the SPÖ discriminates against property. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Our head of state Herbert Sausgruber will protect them from this!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6828	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Total residence time: exactly 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6846	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Is what we're dealing with here thematically scandalous, or isn't it? - I don't know. In any case, it is embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen, what a spectacle here a former state-bearing party offers: Gusenbauer, Cap, Bures and Co-polemize, scandalize them, fear them, create uncertainty among the workers, insure the Austrians; it is spoken of as an apparent sale of Austria. But the facts – namely actual facts and non-socialist assumptions and assumptions – speak a completely different language. Compare, ladies and gentlemen, national policy, industrial, financial and economic policy during the socialist era with today's policy! There is the constant accusation by you of the opposition that this federal government would spoil family silver and sell out Austria. It has already been mentioned what kind of sales the government has made under socialist leadership. The fact is: Prior to the privatisations, in 2000, the corporate values amounted to around €5 billion with debt of more than €6 billion. In the meantime, some €8 billion of these shares were realised in the course of privatisation, and the current debt was reduced to below €2 billion. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If you are talking about “destruction” in connection with Deutsche Telekom, I can show you a sign. – Today, not many here have been seen in the front. [[The speaker shall hold a panel at which the following figures shall be shown.]] This sign shows the price trend since 2000, according to which the Austrian Telekom has recorded a 36 percent increase, the Deutsche Telekom has a 64 percent loss, the Swisscom a 5 percent loss, the Telekom Italia a 61 percent loss, and Vodafone a 51 percent loss. Understandably, the Member of Parliament makes a unilateral and, of course, very selective choice in his performance of newspaper quotes. What is the aim of this? – A bad thing about the Federal Government. The S & D party as an opposition obviously has no ideas or visions. This is a compensation of social democratic inability, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Worse is that managers and therefore companies are made bad. And the worst thing is to make Austria bad abroad. Ladies and gentlemen! What you're doing here I'm calling damage to Austria's economic and work location. The economic programme of Mr Matznetter and the SPÖ is still very short. It was already mentioned in detail by the clubs Willi Molterer and Herbert Scheibner, which increase which taxes was thought of to what extent. The programme can be summarized under the heading ‘tax increase’ and has a headline collection. Even though Mr Matznetter is responsible for child care today and no longer wants to know that interest taxes should be increased to up to 50 percent in the peak tax rate: The Austrians should know that, according to Mr Matznetter, all should make an appropriate contribution to the financing of these public services – obviously also those who do not pay taxes in Austria today. As a result, the emergency brake has been removed in the convoluted fact that we are here about this economic programme of SPÖ and Mr Matznetter. This high tax rate of interest has been removed. According to “Kronen Zeitung”, there was obviously an argument between Klubobmann Gusenbauer and colleagues Matznetter. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Androsch has expressed his views on what he thinks about it. [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens:Ready time!]] – I am at the end of the sentence, Madam President. Since you have often used the word "dilettantism", I may say to you: When dilettantism manifests itself in this form, with these facts, with these economic data,...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6892	Member, come on. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6907	... then I may wish the Federal Government as much as possible of this kind of dilettantism. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6935	The last speaker was Mr Oellinger. The remaining speaking time is also 5 minutes. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e6953	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I could have needed the board quite well, because I could have explained something, but later on. I have to tell you the truth: I don't understand you talking about the government parties talking about herb and beet if we have to discuss a urgent question on Telekom. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The SPÖ's economic programme!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Matznetter has a herb and beet program, says Ollinger!]] It's your responsibility! Federal Chancellor! So I was very grateful for your speech, at least as far as the first part is concerned. Yes, let's talk about what it's all about to Deutsche Telekom and what's going on! This is the task of politics or of the parties: to think about how to position a company – not any, but one of the largest in this republic – as best as possible. – This is the one, the business part. Good too; I am very much in favour of taking this seriously. Ladies and gentlemen! The other part also concerns the question that we are dealing here with a very essential infrastructure company, not with any, but with one dealing with future technologies. It is also about whether these technologies for the future can be made available to Austrians or whether these infrastructure services are available to us only at expensive prices, for example, because this dictates us some large foreign group. Federal Chancellor! Shouldn't we have talked about what you saw as the most important option so that this goal can be achieved: to take in a strategic partner? – You can talk about it. It has already been tried with the Telecom Italia, and it has obviously been tried four times with Swisscom – that is what the Minister of Finance has explained to us – and it has failed. Then the Minister of Finance tells us in the last few days, actually he didn't want to. And you, Federal Chancellor, tell us that you thought this was a reasonable idea. So which one of them is right? – The Minister of Finance who said thank God it was nothing, or you, Federal Chancellor, who told you, would it have been reasonable? [[Abg. May. Molterer: The Minister of Finance has never said that!]] Federal Chancellor! I am not a privatization expert, but if you now say that you are glad that the 'Minerva' project has failed at Voest, I ask you: [[Abg. May. Molterer: You can see that!]] Did you also explain this to the Minister of Finance, who had operated the Minerva project for months and wanted to lock by the public? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, I understand you are saying that you do not like to be beaten for it now, but it has not been the opposition – and the media; thank you for the media! – which the Minerva project has dreamed in the public for so long until it was no longer feasible? – It was not the Federal Government, nor was it the Minister of Finance who, by itself, had stopped the Minerva project. Federal Chancellor! I'm not a privatization specialist and I'm not a privatization ideologist either. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You can see that!]] If you say insider trading is not welcome, I understand. But the point is that there is not only the suspicion, but rather quite clear indications that insider trade has taken place. And another point, Mr Bundeskanzler, is that we know from the past that there have been very certain people who have also participated in insider trade around ÖIAG. Federal Chancellor! Let's just think for a moment that about half a year ago, Telekom Manager has promised a premium of €9 million – 130 million schilling in old currency – because the stock exchange price exceeded a certain limit only one minute before the closing of the stock market. Yes, where was the Minister of Finance, or where were the Supervisory Boards of the ÖIAG to stop such a transparent trade? I am not yet talking about the need for financial supervision. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! I'm not a privatization expert, but we're also talking about Telekom's stock exchange! [[Abg. May. Molterer: You can see that!]] I remember very well: low output rate – we all know – so that nothing goes wrong in privatisation. On the first day, the courses fell. Why? – Because institutional investors who have previously received cheap discounts have sold on the first day. This is how the privatization policy of the Minister of Finance looks. That's a disaster!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e7077	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues, on the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Finance under Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This request is rejected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues and colleagues on the protection of public core property to ÖIAG operators and the creation of an infrastructure holding company. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e7137	We are now entering the negotiations on the request of Dr. Cap, Dr. Kräub, colleagues and colleagues for the establishment of an investigative committee on information on the conduct of the Federal Minister for Finance, the Federal Chancellor and all the staffed departments and the ÖIAG in respect of preparatory negotiations, contractual negotiations and other matters in the course of the planned sale of ÖIAG shares at Telekom Austria. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e7239	The debate has not been called for nor has it been decided. We shall therefore vote on this request for the setting up of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Decision to terminate the 2004 extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e7272	In agreement with the political groups, I would like to make the following request to the House: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary 2004 XXII meeting. National Council legislative period at the end of the 31st century. "On August 1, 2004, the Commission announced that it had concluded that it had concluded that it would not be necessary to apply the measures provided for in Article 3(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1301/2013. I also ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for an appropriate sign. – This request was adopted unanimously. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e7299	In order to allow for the immediate completion of this decision, I shall, in accordance with a written request from 20 Members, read the relevant part of the Official Protocol so that it may be deemed approved at the end of the meeting. This is: 'At the request of the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Molterer, Dr. Cap, Scheibner, Dr. Van der Bellen, colleagues (Annex C) the National Council unanimously adopted the following decision: .The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary 2004 XXII meeting. National Council legislative period at the end of the 31st century. For the end of August 2004’.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of this part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The relevant part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, with the end of the sitting, as approved. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-08-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00075_d7e7339	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 446/A and 447/A have been tabled at today's meeting, and that further questions 2087/J to 2110/J have been raised. The sitting is closed.
