ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4166	The 58. The meeting of the National Council is open. The official protocols of 55. Meeting of 24. ==References====External links== Meeting of 25 March 1990 On 1 March 2004, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling for the creation of a new European Union. As prevented, MEPs are reported ing. Gartlehner and Hagenhofer. Griefing
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4197	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to rise from your seats. The red and white-red flag on Parliament blows on half mast. In the plenary there are white roses. Death has brutally torn from our midst in our early years, our colleague Dr. Josef Drinkl. We mourn for our Josef Drinkl to a committed, diligent, responsible and kind colleague. Born in Güssing, studied in Graz, he became Styrian politician. ==References== His political career began in the ranks of the Austrian People's Party. He was a member of the People's Party in Weiz, a member of the municipal council, and was then elected to the National Council for the first time in 1996. An important committee member, one of the supporters of our house. His club entrusted Josef Drinkl with important tasks in many committees and debates. So he became a writer here in the High House, chairman of the Immunities Committee and vice-president of the Justice Committee. Josef Drinkl was a well-respected and popular colleague whose expertise, humor and speech talent impressed him. In 1996, after his election, he answered a question of “parliamentary correspondence” according to the objective of his work as follows: “I would like to promote people’s confidence in politics. Politics is not evil. Politics is work for the people. I want to be “acid dough” and to ‘go’ the concerns of my region. I would particularly like to address the political starkness of youth with heart and commitment." Dear Sepp Drink: We thank you for your work! Our participation applies to his wife and his three children. We will preserve Sepp Drink a friendly and honorable memory! I'm asking for a short moment of thought. [[All in attendance spend some time in stupid mourning.]] Thank you. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4255	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllwill be represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Ernst Strasserver. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4282	The Federal Electoral Authority has received a notice from Mrs Mag. Cordula Frieser has renounced her mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Dr. Vincenz Liechtenstein instead. Weiters was replaced by the honourable Member Mag. Dr. Josef Drinkl appointed Mr. Anton Doppler to the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observations. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the writer, the new ambassadors will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now seeking the author, Mrs Gabriele Binder, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4328	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4365	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] The Federal Chancellor announced his intention to make a statement on “The Greater Europe – Austria’s Chances”. – This is on the agenda as item 1. There is a request by five Members to refer to this declaration in accordance with § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a debate immediately. The Federal Chancellor's statement and subsequent debate will take place after the current hour. [[At the beginning of each meeting, an EU and the Austrian Red and White Flag were attached to each ÖVP series.]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4414	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “EU enlargement – backwind for work and economy in Austria” Mr Spindelegger was the first to speak. His legal speaking time is 10 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4440	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! For four days now, the project of enlargement of the European Union has been a reality. This is a historic event that we will probably only know in the future and retrospectively what this means for Europe. We from the Austrian People's Party are very pleased about this, since Austria's accession to the European Union, we have been consistently committed to this enlargement, because we want Europe, which was separated after the Second World War, to be reunited and a zone of peace and stability. We are therefore particularly pleased that this enlargement has now become a reality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For four days our EU external border has migrated from the East to the West. This means that Austria, which has long been located at the eastern border of the European Union, is a little in the middle. Our EU external border has gone all the way to the West: Switzerland and Liechtenstein. This is a dimension of which we can say from the Austrian People's Party that, for us too, the vision has become reality that Europe, that Austria has come to the heart of Europe with it, has thus become the reality that has always been expressed by forerunners, by representatives of the Austrian People's Party at a time when there was still the Iron Curtain. And in this context I may call the names Alois Mock and Erhard Busek, who were always on the road in this matter. We are not only pleased about it, but also believe that in the future Central Europe can play a special role in this Europe of 25 and we want to work on it. That is why this vision of Central Europe is for us now, because this Union has become the reality of 25 things, something that has come true. We are very pleased about this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For four days, the European Union has been the largest with 25 Member States, as no one has probably been able to imagine a few years ago, ranging from Ireland to Poland, from Baltic to Malta, from Portugal to Cyprus. This expansion of a political union on our continent was not even given to this extent at the time of the Holy Roman Empire of German Nation. It is a one-time thing on this continent – and can actually lead to a European zone of peace and stability, which we all very much wish for. For us from the Austrian People's Party, this is also the chance that in this Europe of the 25 in the future we will maintain a different kind of common foreign policy, the common appearance in international institutions, because we believe that this Europe – in the context of democracy, with human rights, with a rule of law which is certainly exemplary for other regions of the world – can also move something, in this sense, and a new self-confidence that will also stimulate this Europe on the world stage. I believe that we are able to assess these historical features, which are certain to be later: perhaps in a review of what this enlargement has actually brought. Many Austrians, of course, ask themselves – much more closely at hand – what this enlargement brings them, what impact it has on their jobs, on their economic situation, whether it will stimulate or not. We have therefore chosen this theme of today's current hour on this issue because we believe that this enlargement will also bring a backwind for work and economy in Austria. Of course, the effects of enlargement on the labour market will not come from about, not naturally, and certainly pose dangers – and therefore policy must respond in good preparation. Let us, however, take account of what the labour market is about to do in recent years, which has, or has not, just brought to our neighbours the opening of borders. If we look at the data, we see what the economic researchers are certifying us, we can say today that since the fall of the Iron Curtain 1989/90 60,000 jobs have been added net to Austria through this opening. This is a very positive, remarkable signal, but many Austrians have sometimes thought that the opening of the eastern borders might result in fewer jobs in Austria. – No, we see today in the balance sheet that it has become more jobs! And we're happy about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With a labour market in Austria, which can now lead to difficulties in opening up a single market throughout Europe, in the Europe of 25 and, of course, in the course of enlargement negotiations, we have tried to protect this labour market in the form that we have negotiated transitional periods for this labour market with our partners. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we can achieve a maximum of these transition periods of seven years, that growth, which is stronger among our neighbours than in Austria, will lead to a higher wage level there and that we will therefore have a gradual approximation over years, without two different wage levels meeting each other and there will be a social dumping. We have provided, and we have been able to convince everyone else with this seven-year transitional period in Europe. In this context, I would like to heartily welcome our members of the government here and today, especially our Federal Chancellor Dr. Cush for thanking him, Wolfgang Schüssel, for having succeeded in this idea of a transitional period and he has caused it to be written in the Treaties. This is a great success for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this context, I should also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have not received much support from your SPÖ side. I remember how your representatives of the ÖGB and the Chamber of Labour explained to us that all of this is not enough and that a disaster will occur. – Today we hear God thank you nothing more! And you also told us from SPÖ that we would not bring together a seven-year transitional period! Ladies and gentlemen! We see today that the preparation for the freedom of the labour market with a seven-year transitional period is precisely on the point of What the Austrians want, namely a gentle transition to full freedom of movement and protection of domestic jobs, is precisely to the extent of a seven-year transitional period. That is, we have the opportunity to raise the levels in the East until then so that we can gradually reach the same wage level. This has been a good, right and forward-looking decision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the economy is concerned, many also ask: Now that all farms are moving away, will this extension not make any further progress towards the east? – I think: no! We have also provided for this, and I refer, for example, to the Köst reduction, which we will be discussing tomorrow, as well as to group taxation. These are milestones for economic development that will lead us to increase jobs, that we will have more entrepreneurs. There are many inquiries at the Austrian Business Agency, requests that go to the hundreds to settle new businesses in Austria. Who would have thought this a little while ago? This is a reality now, with the announcement of a tax reform which has already resulted, and this is a very good development for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For my group, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we are not only on this enlargement of the EU, but that we should also consider this whole European development in another way: In future, we should not ask what this enlargement brings us, but what we can do from this enlargement. And we can make a number of things out of it that will be positive for Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4597	For a preliminary opinion on the subject, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, Dr Bartenstein, spoke. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4616	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the topic “Ruckenwind für Arbeits und Wirtschaft in Österreich”: The EU enlargement will do this all the time, but it has been the opening of the East since 1989, which has ensured that Austria's economic location has experienced a turnwind. [[Abg. Parnigoni: With your balance sheet you are not a successful minister!]] The internationally renowned Vienna Institute for International Economic Comparisons describes Austria as the largest winner of the European Union's eastern opening among the 15 – and at the same time as the largest winner of enlargement among the EU 15. 6 percent alone is the additional economic growth that Austria has experienced since 1989, since Alois Mock and Gyula Horn cut the iron curtain between Hungary and Austria. To “translate” this: This is about €14 billion for our economy, for our gross domestic product. Or, as honourable Member Spindelegger has already said: 60,000 jobs in addition; net, you said. We know that some have been lost, that was painful, but in total there are 60,000 more jobs – and there will be more. In order to illustrate to you a little what effect we would otherwise not have had, it should only be said that in a study, the Wifo found that Austria experienced an additional economic growth of 0.42 percent in the years 1995 to 2001 year after year. Compare this with the economic growth that we had in the – admittedly weak – years 2001 to 2003, namely a total of 2.9 percent, i.e. about 1 percent per year! It has not been covered to say that some 40 percent of our economic growth in recent years has come out of the heading of East Opening, and it is also not covered to say that about 40 percent of the additional positive labour market effects that come from this title, because if we can see today that we have created some 14 000 additional jobs in Austria last year – respectfully the economy that it has created – says the Wifo: 6 000 jobs per year have come from the title East Opening. Nevertheless, it is extremely important – and Mr Spindelegger has already pointed out – to take the concerns of the Austrians very seriously in terms of migration, particularly in terms of the labour market. Thank you, Federal Chancellor Schüssel, thank you to all the other participants who have helped us to negotiate this transition period for a maximum of seven years for our labour market! By the way: We have always said openly what we need, together with the Germans – on the other hand, other EU Member States have meant that they do not need it. They've come up with it. They need it. The location Austria has thus won – and will continue to win. There are more than 1 000 international headquarters working towards Central and Eastern Europe in Vienna, Salzburg and elsewhere in Austria. This reads like a “Who is Who” in the economic world from A to Z: A like Agfa, B like Bosch, BASF, Bank of Tokyo, C like Canon or Coca Cola, et cetera. I could continue this until the letter Z. So this is a success story for the location Austria! This brings value added, which brings jobs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As Michael Spindelegger said: We support this location policy on the part of the Federal Government and you on the part of the High House: also with a tax reform that strengthens Austria's location. For investments in Austria, it is important that we have a 25 percent Köst rate when it is even below our neighbours, at least nominally. It is important that we strengthen Austria's headquarters attractiveness in particular, with the most likely generous group taxation in Europe. Hand to heart: In this context, it is also to be said that the question of future years is not whether jobs from Germany to the Czech Republic, from Austria to Hungary, but the industrial policy question of the following years will be: For example, can jobs move from Europe to China, and can we stop them? As far as I am concerned, I thank the social partners for the fact that they are otherwise very well aware of their location. It is no coincidence that the Austrians work around 200 hours a year more than the Germans. It's 1 720 hours. It is not a coincidence that the restraint of our trade unions in annual wage statements has ensured that unit labour costs have fallen in recent years and have not increased – thanks to the responsible social partners. It is no coincidence that this federal government, ladies and gentlemen, together with you in these days and weeks, will decide on the most important research and development offensive in this country since 1945. Today, we are already in a surprisingly high R & D share of GDP, 2.27 percent, and we will reach 3 percent by 2010 with the measures you are happy to take. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The expansion will continue to secure Austria's location after the successful nearly 15 years of the east opening. I already mentioned it: The economic researchers are predicting that further jobs will be added to the already net 60 000 newly created jobs – that is what Wifo says. In total, there will be about 40 000 more jobs by 2010. In other words, a total of 100 000 jobs result from the title “Enlargement of the European Union”. In relation to the small 8 million people we represent as Austrians, we are on the road, which leads to direct investment by Austrians in Central and Eastern Europe. Mr Bundeskanzler and I were with many top representatives of the economy in Romania, which is not yet included in this round of enlargement. Today we are already there, and if the big business OMC works with Petrom, we are even more clearly present in the next few months. At present we are already in all our neighbouring countries either number one or number three regarding ‘foreign direct investments’. 15 billion € from Austrian companies are already there, which is 40 percent of the total investment by Austrians abroad. This also ensures value added and jobs in Austria, and that is to be welcomed. However, as Minister for Tourism, I would like to add that I very much respect Ladies and gentlemen, this too will be a success story for the tourist location Austria or is already. Although some 3 million citizens from Central and Eastern Europe are still relatively modest in relation to the total number of foreign nationals in Austria, I must say that both Austria and Austria's tourism industry are looking forward to the dynamics, as 300 000 to 400 000 annually are added to these 3 million nights. I am convinced that the day will no longer be far away, where, in view of the number of guests, we will enjoy Czech, Hungarian and Slovenian guests to the same extent as German, Swiss and Italian. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let me conclude by saying precisely because four days ago we celebrated enlargement together, that we can say with good conscience to people in the border regions of Upper Austria, Lower Austria, Burgenland, Styria and Carinthia that enlargement and the opening of the East have brought more to these regions than the average of Austria in terms of jobs and economic growth in recent years. This is a particularly encouraging development, because in recent years and decades, especially these regions have been significantly disadvantaged by the political and economic border which closed the markets. We welcome the fact that precisely these border regions will benefit from the opening up and in the future from enlargement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4685	Thank you very much, Minister of State. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current hour must not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Mitterlehner was the first Member to speak. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4712	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The enlargement of the European Union is not only a project of a significant political dimension, but also a huge chance for Europe, which is reaching the economic sector, especially the domestic economy. Especially now that we have been weak in growth for three years, it must be seen as particularly positive that enlargement, the ten candidate countries and the necessary investments to be made in these countries are an important opportunity for the Austrian economy due to its proximity and competence. In the coming years, i.e. from 2004 to 2006, €22 billion of investment potential is available, and the interest of local companies is available. We will participate in the investment. We will, of course, also secure jobs. We have – and this confirms all the studies, but we also need to be careful – also relevant effects in the field of economics and personal feelings. The macroeconomic effects speak a very clear language. There is a loss of border formalities, which will bring a savings for the domestic economy of around €470 million a year. We also have expected exports. The 5 per cent increase in this area alone will lead to tax revenue of around 200 million per year. Already mentioned was the possibility in the tourism sector, namely that we can expect more guests from the candidate countries in the future. You may not be able to remember this, but in the inter-war years, the guest quotas from Hungary at Semmering amounted to around 40 percent. Now we have a share of 1 percent of foreign guests from this area. Therefore, increases in the amount of 400 000 can be expected – assuming that the next Kondratief cycle will be tourism and wellness at all. This gives rise to considerable potential for the domestic economy. This is particularly important at this stage, and we will certainly benefit from it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm from the Mühlviertel. If you are addressing macroeconomic numbers at events there, then I have to say that people are interested, but they can also read this in the newspapers. The much more important question is: What does enlargement mean for me personally? – And this is actually focused on three areas. One area is traffic: Is there a greater volume of transport now? – The answer will be: yes, but we must invest accordingly in the infrastructure. Secondly, What about security? Did we control that? – There are also appropriate measures in this regard. But the main question is: What about my job? – If I look at the workplace situation, I believe that we are with the transitional periods have been established by a sound system. However, this solid regulation is more likely to cover transitional fears, because in reality we also have to live in this area of enlargement, and live means that we have to deal with the practice. If we do not do anything now, and not step-by-step, the Internship Agreements which apply the Cross-border Agreements, then the question is justified: What will we have then? – We will experience black work to an enormous extent! We have installed a hotline in the area of the Chamber of Commerce. This hotline is not concerned with macroeconomic issues, but with: Now all the troops come to Austria, which deliver the entire asbestos they tear off somewhere, to the Czech Republic or Slovakia. What about environmental standards and the like? I therefore believe that we must go into the official area in this regard. We have the transitional periods in the service sector too, but we should learn to live step by step. What does enlargement mean? – That means more action, that is, more movement. Only where movement is, is purchasing power. The same applies to shop opening times. Last year everyone said: We don't need that. Now there is the extension, and now you can read in the newspapers: Our businesses have also recognized that in the enlargement countries the shops are open until 10 am and on Sunday. Therefore, enlargement does not automatically mean opportunity for everyone. Enlargement means more movement, means more opportunities, but we need to take up these opportunities accordingly. In order to bridge the difference between personal expectation and the macro-economic advantages raised, in order to overcome the path between claim and reality, we need to address the living dialogue, the living reality. That means: Daytime work and away with the sect glasses! Let's do it, we really live the enlargement!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4791	The next item is the report by Mr Arbitrator. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4809	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We Social Democrats also welcome the new members. The enlargement of the EU is for us a project of peace and solidarity, but also in economic terms, all – both the 15 countries and the new ten – expect benefits and profits. It is true that Austria has been one of the countries that have already brought in a large part of their harvest in the last one and a half decades due to the fall of the Iron Curtain and the enlargement that has now been carried out. Many Austrian companies have secured a good place in this new economic area. But we must not overlook one thing: With the wind of the back, as you call it, it's such a thing: He blows you in the back only, he accelerates you only if you are in the right position when he comes from the right direction and when you move yourself in the right direction. This may be the case in many areas, which are determined by the economy and the enterprises, but unfortunately it does not apply to the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria is determined – to stick to your word – not enough direction. Austria does not play a major role in the EU; there has been hardly any Austrian initiatives in all the major decisions that are relevant to Europe. Transit, lack of tax harmonisation are just two examples of the fact that the interests of our country are not represented consistently and successfully. This must change in the interests of our country. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] Secondly, National preparation is insufficient, particularly in the employment and employment sectors. As social democrats, we have put forward our proposals, as well as the trade unions have made their proposals. The government has essentially remained inactive, which must change. I fear that this will only be the case after the next National Council election. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: No false hopes!]] Thirdly, A prerequisite for good economic development is appropriate transport links. The Austrians have acted successfully in the fields of aviation. Unfortunately, there are serious shortcomings in the area of roads, motorways, railways and crossings. These are serious mistakes of this government and, I add, the failure of the previous years. But don't always talk about the failures a year and a half ago! The fact that something too hesitant was started at that time is by no means a reason to continue today, where it is much more urgent, even more hesitant. There would be a different policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You only have to look at the Vienna–Bratislava route: A modern connection would need 20 minutes for this; It'll take 70 minutes now. An old diesel locomotive pulls the train – a train that had already been electrified in the monarchy. My competent Members of the Government! This is really a shame, and this is an example for Europe as a whole, as one cannot do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Fourthly, we also need to see how the Europe project itself is going, whether the Europe project, the EU project, as far as economic policy is concerned, is developing in the right direction. And in this regard, we as Social Democrats have concerns: The creation of jobs is neglected, European investment is hampered, social policy progress is very hesitant in the EU, necessary services are being called into question, and excessive austerity inhibits policy-making. ==References====External links== This is why the European elections are so important in June: We Socialists want to free the EU from this conservative domination and make Europe a force of economic and social progress – in the interests of the people of this continent! [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4882	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4917	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schiederer, that you have addressed the failures of the SPÖ-led federal governments here at the speaker's desk, you are honoured, and that has also upgraded your contribution accordingly. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, in this project of enlargement of the European Union, in this peace, social and economic union, we see a decisive and historic opportunity. That is why we have agreed to all these decisions here in the National Council, because we see how important this step is for the future of Europe. We have, however, given this agreement with reservations. We have also mentioned this here at the speaker's desks and at the events time and again. In our view, ladies and gentlemen, some candidate countries have not yet been ready for this important step. We have said, above all, that nuclear power plants in some accession countries do not comply with the European standard and that we also need to take steps in the future with regard to human rights and minority standards. I am thinking, above all, of the Beneš decrees in the Czech Republic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have also expressed these reservations freely. However, we must now also answer the question of whether the EU-15 was already ready for this historic step. If one sees how difficult it is to get the support of the population within these 15 countries for this step; if one sees how difficult it is to reach agreement on this project within the framework of these pay-off scandals and this transparency of European policy as a whole, then one could think that it would not have harmed the EU-15 to become a little more European and then dare this historic step. Ladies and gentlemen! This step has now been taken, and, with “we” I mean the Austrian political level, we must now, after this important step, be hearted and represented by the interests of our Republic in this enlarged Europe. That's why we're going to do it now. A key point will be the new European Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! This Constitution has been commissioned to these 25 countries in particular with a view to enlargement. And the Constitution was also under the objective of greater proximity to the citizen, greater clarity, greater transparency and more sparingness. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will have to respect these principles, but above all we will have to pay attention to the proximity of citizens. That is why the issue of a referendum on a new European constitution is of such importance. In fact, this Constitution must already live in its process this new citizens' proximity within the European Union. That is why we will not come around for a referendum on a new constitution for the whole Union – that is my opinion. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These signals, the signals of proximity, clarity, transparency and sparingness – Mr. Schiederer, I also agree with you in this – are important in the now beginning EU election. In this EU election campaign, the whole of the European Union is again at the test level of its citizens, and in this EU election campaign, the election debate must also address these important areas. Ladies and gentlemen! However, we must also be aware that, after this enlargement, the European Union should once again keep up with and rethink fundamental things. The European Union will have to consider how it defines itself geographically. We're not going to be total Eastern Europe, the Middle East can be implemented into the European Union. We must say clearly and clearly that we do not consider Turkey's accession to the current state of the Union and, moreover, do not think it is a right step because it is very different economic and power sectors: It is about the Middle East, it is about Eastern Europe – areas which we cannot implement into the European Union, in which we now live. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union will therefore have to take care of itself in the coming years. It will promote deepening in important areas and will also have to say clearly that enlargement has its limits. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to support the European Union's citizens' proximity, transparency and economy and ensure that the interests of Austria are safeguarded. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5007	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5025	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelegger began his speech by saying that borders had to be moved and we had to set ourselves on these changed boundaries. I would like to point out that this was not a migration of borders, but that it was political decisions that became possible only in 1989, although many preparations have already been made in advance. Ladies and gentlemen! These preparations, which have been possible since 1989 and, of course, in the last three to five years, have only been made in very few, only in very specific areas, especially in one area: in the resolution of the prejudices that exist between the old and new European states. The Polish ambassador has made a remarkable statement in a discussion that shows what is still under-explained in my view in the enlargement debate. She said, always when talking about Polish agriculture, the same photo appeared in every newspaper, the photo of a Polish farmer with his horse and a car. She has told us very clearly – and therefore she is of course right – that Polish agriculture is of course not to be reduced in this picture. Of course, the same is true of industry. We see, when it comes to industrial debates, the industrial ruins of the 1950s and 1960s, which have already been sprung away from us, but not all the economic developments that have taken place in recent years and decades. This, of course, raises the question of whether the differences are highlighted in the debate on enlargement, or whether we want to emphasize and emphasize what connects us in this Europe. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Here you have serious failures to answer, which we must complain about. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This current hour was titled “Rewind for work and economy” by the ÖVP. – Backwind for what work and economy? This question will also be raised. to be present, but for the time being one thing has been noted: Both sides, both from the enlargement countries and from the current accession countries, attach extremely high economic expectations to this enlargement. This is a conflict, ladies and gentlemen. It is not a matter of course that, if it is not specially organized and processed, it will result in a harmonious cooperation and a common profit from economic activity from the integration of Europe. If instead of building up fair trade relations of neoliberalism, ladies and gentlemen, if enlargement is used to worsen working conditions in Austria, with the pressure that accession would seriously impact the additional wage gap, then working rules will be called into question with us, then you will be removed from a European consensus that exists in the population, but unfortunately not in governments, namely consensus on a social Europe. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The question of what kind of economic growth we will have is the crucial question of the future for Europe. Will it be an economy of neoliberalism or will it be a sustainable economy? Will it be an energy policy that focuses on renewable energy sources, or will you, ladies and gentlemen, put more or less hidden on the old great colossals, such as nuclear energy? Will you force all people to drive in transport policy, or will you be willing to make the alternatives in public transport available? This requires investment – but just as you are currently planning your investments, it goes in the wrong direction. [[The red lamb flashes on the speaker's sleeve.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A social Europe is what people expect. Orientation your policy, before you fall back into the 1960s, instead of thinking about the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5126	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. 5 minutes speaking time. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5144	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, you're connected to us via television! High house! Great politicians, such as our Leopold Figl, have spoken about the vision that we need a big, a strong, a few Europe. We have a chance to experience this. We voted about ten years ago and decided to join this European Union, which has changed considerably since 1989. We have thus come much closer to the great objective of European integration, the creation of a zone of stability, security, peace and the rule of law in Europe. This process is characterized by changes. We have moved from the border market to the centre of Europe. A lot comes to us. There are many questions – how will we deal with them? There are risks, there are new possibilities. All this is reality. The Europe of the commonness of the 25 must be lived – today, here, everywhere and also on 13th. In June, citizenship has a role to play in European policy. In the new Europe, we have not only to form in the direction, that we categorize in thinkers and bad-makers, but we need a real policy, a new political orientation, but also a policy that not only has boundless expectations. The most important part, in my opinion, is the fact that our children learn from European wars, but no more European wars. This is the message that we are to carry out and which is so important and important to all of us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think we also need to rethink social policy, rethink it, let some air into some network, but keep the statics and, elsewhere, perhaps equip the networks a little better. Europe needs a new culture of solidarity. This is a message that we hear everywhere and that is also right and important. We must go ahead and say that we can not only provide, but also ensure that as many people as possible participate in the prosperity, that there is work, that there is employment, that future-oriented businesses can develop successfully, that they can build, because one thing is clear: Social is what creates work – and everything else is at best an expectation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We must also work towards the creation of value on this continent, because only a socially shaped Europe, an economically strong Europe in which peoples and generations live together and create values, only this Europe has the future. This Federal Government has been preparing for it. We have created appropriate conditions and we also carry this process involved, for example with the new tax reform: a historic process, a new redistribution within citizenship, more money for families! All this is important, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, can show whether you are involved in this new project, whether you are willing to join in. I think it doesn't make sense if you keep saying how bad it is in Austria. Please read the report of a prestigious Swiss institute, which clearly shows where Austria can be found in the ranking. This is possible in every way, and this is a good news that we shall bear. That's our job, and I think that's more important than that you're always sorry what's wrong in this country. I am somewhat upset when I read that in the next few days, Mr Cap is asking the government a tough question. In this context, he says that the government has failed to work hard to ensure that it has contributed to the poor economic policies of Europe. – Ask Prodi, ask Schröder, ask the Social Democratic members of the Commission, ask the Socialist International if something does not fit you, but do not criticize your own country, in which you too are responsible, this country, which must give us peace and freedom in the future too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Europe is the future for us. Europe gives us hope, but it is also a great challenge. It is not about waiting for everything and taking a lot of things, but it is also about getting involved and giving something. We must give Europe content to this project, think about new perspectives and think them through. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] We need to get involved, form and participate. And as I said, so did 13th. June...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5223	That was the final sentence, Mr Donabauer. The speaking time is over! [[I should like to say a few words about this. Donabauer.]] A new speech is made by Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister. He's bound to the five-minute speaking time. – You are speaking, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5254	Mr President. Estimated government colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Arbitrator, you have said something about the conservative domination of Europe. Do you mean Prodi? You mean Blair? Do you mean Schröder? Who do you mean? – Do you think I dominate Europe? [[Abg. Arbitrators: You! I mean, you mean it!]] That honors me, thanks many times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So one-sided, I believe, you should not present it to the Austrians, even if the European election campaign has begun. That's not really credible. But let us take you back to the word and ask: Where, then, are the failures that you are causing us in terms of the labour market, in terms of transitional provisions? They say we left things out here. You know very well that Austria, together with Germany, has reached this transitional period for our labour market. We'll see to what extent we need them. As long as the unemployment rate is slightly rising – and this is anything but gratifying – we will have to use it more strongly. If the labour market is turning because there is growth again, it will look a little different. That's how we'll keep it. However, I have not really heard any proposals from you in the committees and in the plenary deliberations on this subject, as you would say. We hold it together with the Schröder government in such a way that we believe that this seven-year transitional period is the optimum for our employees, is the optimum for the labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs Lichtenberger, you meant we needed growth. I agree with you. But they meant that this must be sustainable and not neoliberal growth. I now have a bit of a problem, namely, an understanding problem. I can't really keep this apart, respectfully I haven't been aware of neoliberal growth so far. In all the discussions I have been allowed to hold in recent months and years, that has never been the question. The question is: How does Europe get more growth? And here, I tell you quite openly, the candidate countries are already encouraging us. If we have about one percent growth, Germany is in fact in a slightly recession similar to the Dutch, then Hungary, the Slovaks, the Slovenians and others – Slovenia is the model student of the enlargement countries at all – show us that we can have 3, 4, 5 percent growth. And even Romania, which we hope will be about 2007 with Bulgaria and Croatia, expects a growth of 5 percent at the moment. This will not make the Europe of the 15 healthy now, but that will give them courage to be on the right path, on the right path, to creating work with growth and ultimately also place for wage increases. Whether this is sustainable or neoliberal growth, I don't know. I assume that it is sustainable because Europe is a social union, Europe is ultimately a Union of sustainable economics, but Europe is also a Union of competitiveness. All three things belong together, in the right way, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Tag Energy. – Mrs Lichtenberger, what do you mean? I already put it on: I was a day in Romania with the Federal Chancellor. One of the most important investment projects of the Austrians is the modernisation of a large Danube power plant. VA-Tech has a name there. There we are; no wonder: 60 percent of our electricity is made from hydropower, and you know that we produce more than 70 percent of our electricity from alternative and renewable energy sources, including hydropower. You have to look at the costs, because some things are a bit too expensive and run out of the row. But we're on a very good path. That's know-how we can export now. With this we can help our neighbors! This can help us either get out or not to get into nuclear and other non-sustainable energy forms. A concrete point in the talks with my energy minister: How do we promote small hydropower? I tell you, if the OMV manages to invest massively in Romania – and we support and welcome this – the Romanian environment will also do well, because what has been in the soil for more than 100 or 150 years is likely to be reprocessed in the coming years and decades. – This is called old-age rehabilitation, I still remember as an environmental minister, a. D., and my colleague Molterer nods. I know what I'm talking about. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the energy industry is concerned, we have to expect energy consumption growth in these countries, but at the same time we have the opportunity to maintain very modest overall consumption and overall consumption by increasing energy efficiency, because we know that gross domestic product per euro, per unit of value added, is an unevenly higher energy consumption. I'll get you together. It's nothing really specific that you can blame us for failure, because there's no one either. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] We are well prepared here, the economy is also excellently prepared. I still have a lot to say, but the President thinks I should end.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5318	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. 5 minutes speaking time. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5337	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! May I say one thing to you: I've got the impression that you've confused the weekday. It's not Sunday today. And we don't need any Sunday speeches for enlargement today either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But we already heard one from over there today!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We agree with you that the step that Europe took on 1st. In May, a major and important step has been taken. However, I do not agree with Mr Spindelegger that the great thing is how big Europe is now. The great thing is that for the first time in a peaceful way, it has succeeded in bringing the countries together. That's the sensation. Europe is a peace project, Europe has managed to unite on a peaceful basis. And we should make that clear. The size of it is by and large, Mr President. The peace side is important. But let me also come to the other questions and also address Mr Bartenstein. Bartenstein has reported a number of developments and facts here; they are already voting. But Mitterlehner has rightly said that it is not about macroeconomic data, but it is about looking at what is concrete. Austria, you said, Mr Minister, is the biggest winner of enlargement, and you have called on a study of the WIIW. – That’s right, but: This profit is not equally distributed! Look Once you're in charge of how the labour market develops – you're responsible for it! The development of the labour market in Austria in the time you are in the government shows an increase in unemployment by 20 percent! – The comparative value in Europe is an increase of 7 percent. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Insanity!]] [[Abg. Gaál: This is exorbitant!]] Mr. Federal Minister, you are responsible for work and business. What people do not understand in this country is that you are moving around here and saying how great the enlargement is – and at the same time, the number of unemployed is increasing daily, and you remain absolutely inactive! That's the problem we're seeing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The only thing, Mr. Federal Minister, that you claim as a performance of the Federal Government is that you have reached a seven-year transitional period. But, Minister of State, that's too little! What we need is investment in infrastructure, investment in research, investment in education. What we need is active measures to stimulate growth in Austria and active measures to boost economic growth at European level, and you have all remained guilty. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What it is about us is to think of the concrete people who are not, for good reason, enthusiastic about this enlargement and what is going on in front of them, and who are not served with Sunday speeches, but who need concrete action. [[Abg. Großruck: You’ve ever had the proof of how “successful” you have been! As Minister of Transport, you have already proved how “successful” you were!]] As an example of the alleged success of the Federal Government's economic policy – which is also supported by a completely missing tax policy – you have stated that companies from A to Z are now moving their seats to Austria and serving the markets east of Austria from here. You have led a number of companies, including BASF, but there must have happened to you a small mistake: Just BASF has decided in these days to close and give up its location in Austria! – This is not such a great achievement that you should claim for yourself, but that only corresponds to what you are doing here. The problem is that the government and, ultimately, even all of us here – including us from the opposition – have responsibility for doing everything in Austria that needs to be done so that people do not have to worry about enlargement – and that is not enough to explain seven years of transition. I agree with Mr Mitterlehner, who said that he is in favour of the bilateral agreements being finally decided to be complete. What prevented you from deciding? The only bilateral agreement in force is that with Hungary, and that has been adopted in 1998. This has been around with the Czech Republic for more than two years because the one government partner seems to be unable to find reasonable solutions. Don't ask us to stand by you, but take those steps that you really think are necessary in order for something to go on in this respect! The transitional period alone does not protect anyone. What really protects is concrete measures to ensure that, in the case of rising and high unemployment, no additional employees on the Austrian labour market now come and that the necessary steps can be taken gradually and carefully in the fields where they are needed and in mutual agreement with our neighbouring countries. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: (in the direction of President Dr. Khol) Turn off! Justice must be!]] We are for concrete policies for people – they are for abstract beauty speech!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5463	Mr Dolinschek now speaks to us. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5482	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Because my previous speaker has now said that the SPÖ is for concrete policy and for no abstracts, I would remind him that the SPÖ has held responsibility in this state for many years in the past. You, Mr President, one of you was Minister of Transport, you were Minister of the Interior, and I would remind you how many posts you have closed in Austria. [[Call:... the Father of Chaos]] Have you forgotten? And that you didn't do anything else on the roads, I would also like to remind you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I have nothing to do with making some criticism in the European Union; we have done so again and again in the past. But you should weigh the opportunities – and you should take advantage of the opportunities and not let them pass away. By the speakers of the SPÖ, Mr Schieder, Mr Einm, we are repeatedly being led to failures which are now to be claimed by the Federal Government. But you do not want to remember the failure that occurred in the Federal Government prior to this time when the SPÖ held the main responsibility. They voted in favour of enlargement of the EU last year. Now you have not given your consent to the EU Enlargement Adjustment Act, which we decided here in March and in which the transitional periods precisely govern the movement of persons and services. What has changed since then, except your attitude? - Nothing at all! We have always felt that EU enlargement must lead to transitional periods, unlike other countries such as France, the Benelux countries or Germany. But these too have now turned on this path, and have brought these transitional periods, which have been negotiated and introduced by the Federal Minister of Labour as the “2 plus 3 plus 2” rule, so that the Austrian labour market is not flooded by limiting the immediate free movement of persons and services to persons who have been employed in Austria for 12 months or who have a regular residence in Austria for a year and a half, so that the wage level in Austria does not decrease so that unemployment does not rise and thus there is no increase in insolvency in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. One:... the head...!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Einm]] This is important, and I am also glad that the publications of the Austrian Chambers of Workers repeatedly point out that there are high wage differences between Austria and the candidate countries that there is much higher unemployment in the applicant countries. Just to remember: In the brochures of the Chambers of Workers, it is to be read that in Austria the sixfold of the wage is paid in the candidate countries, and only the 1.6-fold is the difference from one region to the next region in an accession country. And unemployment in the applicant countries is on average significantly higher than in the European Union with 7.8 or in Austria with 4.2 percent. For the under 25 years old, it is 32 percent at all! This is precisely where we protect our labour market in Austria through these transitional periods – and you do not agree! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you already point out the location of Austria here, I would like to point out that Swiss scientists have worked out that Austria is catching up as a location in international comparison: in the reliability, in terms of social security, low youth unemployment, the credibility of managers and their social responsibility, in the motivation of employees and their productivity, in exports, in safety and in the environment. The flexibility of the companies and the high motivation of the employees are given great praise – and this on an international basis. ==References====External links== It's all right. We picked up, we didn't put back! I would like to end by saying: EU enlargement also facilitates health insurance. In the future, all Austrians who travel to these candidate countries will also be able to use their health certificates there. This has also been greatly facilitated.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5547	As the last speaker, Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Speaking time: 5 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5565	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to express my amazement at the fact that Minister Bartenstein first thought he understood the difference between neoliberal and sustainable, as my colleague Lichtenberger showed him. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: He didn't say that!]] Mr Bartenstein, you are also very much on the road internationally, and you know the criticism that is often made of that economic model, which imposes all risks on workers and the environment, but that companies tend to increasingly exempt themselves from the national regulatory framework, even though there are no regulatory mechanisms internationally. This is one of the principles of a neoliberal system, for which you, too, are generally standing. And that this is not sustainable, Minister, it must be known to you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is neither socially nor ecologically sustainable. It can't go out! – But it still doesn’t seem to have become quite clear to you. In my speech today, I would like to focus on the debate on transitional periods and on what enlargement we celebrated five days ago – this actual progress towards a European peace project – for the labour market and for employment. Minister Bartenstein also meant that Austria has been the biggest winner of this opening, as it has been in the last ten years. – That’s right, Minister! They have very impressively identified how many new jobs have been created, how many investments have been made, which has actually been achieved for Austria. That you are now one of those who are going here and, as you have done in the past, in recent years, since the seven-year transitional periods have been decided, say: This is now the nonplusultra, which is what we have created to protect the Austrian labour market!, I must tell you: That, Mr. Minister, is a “head birth of fear structure”. – This is a quote from the correspondent of the “Süddeutsche Zeitung” in Vienna, Michael Frank, who made the last week on a ship trip that we – the Green Club – had with invited ambassadors and experts from Vienna to Bratislava. [[Abg. Scheibner: That doesn't make the quote...!]] A ‘headbirth of fear structure’: going here and saying – what you have done, and I must say that the former European Party of the European People's Party (EFP) has allowed itself to be strained in front of thecars of the liberals – and making a policy of saying that... [[Abg. May. Molterer: What about the Schröder in Germany and with Alt-Grün? ... Fischer in Germany?]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] We are now talking about Austrian politics and your policy, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: In Germany this is... Headbirth, or what?]] That in some things Germany joins a false Austrian policy, that is another chapter. But we are doing politics here in Austria, and we also want to make European policy in Austria – and you do not do so with these seven-year transitional periods. They are ignoring the fact that this inflow of labour – or, as Mr Dolinschek said, first of all, that the labour market is being "flooded" – does not mean that all these images, which are intended to express that masses of people from the applicant countries will come to Austria and will take away all of us jobs, are so simply not voting that the forecasts do not see this either. Do you not know, for example, that in Hungary, for example, people are not willing to move from East Hungary, where there is unemployment, even to West Hungary, where there are more jobs, so only to migrate in their own country and to move elsewhere? Yes Believe Are you really sure they're all going to come to Austria and take away our jobs here? – This is just wrong, Minister Bartenstein! Admit that you are acting purely domestically here and not in the sense of Austrian workers – and not at all European. The same applies to the border and intern agreement with the Czech Republic: They have signed this with the Czech colleagues almost three years ago – until today it has not been ratified, until today it has not been reintroduced to the Council of Ministers to be decided so that we can ratify it here in the National Council. Mr Bartenstein, you have not answered this question – why you have not done so – today. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me close with a brief quote from the former Czech Ambassador to Austria, Mr Gruša, who is also a literate. Gruša once meant: “The landscape” – the one on March – “with space and light is our window to Europe that has never been closed.” And: “Sitting on this southern window of the house, one is immediately aware that there are us because there were others.” This awareness of diversity and cultural wealth is one of the things we have in this 1. We have celebrated May and need to transform it into a European policy. But that means that we have to think and act Europeanally – not nationally and pettyly, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5680	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5699	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5926	I also announce that the Seventh Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to all members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5944	Mr Nürnberger, colleagues and colleagues asked for urgent consideration of the written question put before the entry into the agenda by Mr Nürnberger, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour on the responsibility of the Federal Government for record unemployment in Austria and the shortcomings in employment policy. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be dealt with at least three hours after its arrival, i.e. at 4:15 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 1477/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5966	Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question No 1477/J by Mr Rest-Hinterseer, colleagues on the new construction of the Tauernbahn line in Gasteinertal as a high-performance route through the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5992	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration and shape of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ per 105 minutes, Free 72, Green 78 minutes. In addition, the following time-limits for the debate on the Federal Chancellor's declaration were agreed in the round-trip: Statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany 15 minutes, then vice-chanc Gorbach with 10 minutes, then one word by the clubmen per group with 10 minutes each, including this speaking time in the day block time. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. We shall come to the vote. Whoever agrees to the proposal, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. That is why we are doing so. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Chancellor in accordance with Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on ‘The Greater Europe – Austria’s Chances’
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6029	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. I am pleased that on this occasion the ambassadors of the European Union have responded to my invitation and are almost completely in our audience. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen! [[General condolences.]] Following the Federal Chancellor's declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of § 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. Mr Bundeskanzler, you are now speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6063	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[The representatives of the ÖVP have placed on their tables twelve tablets on which, in the background of the flag of the European Union, the text “Welcome” can be seen in one of the languages of the candidate countries, together with its flag – as well as on two panels in German together with the flag of Austria.]] I think these boards are good – they express a friendly “welcome” in all new languages, and that is actually a very sympathetic sign of the House to the new members! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Ambassadors! Adorable watchers on the TV screens! Some claim that Europe has learned to celebrate, and some say that Europe is no different from a slightly oversized company that thinks only of ten-tenth percent profit and loss, net payer interests and others. Those who were four days ago, on Saturday last week – and also on Friday before, on 30. April – experienced how the people danced, enjoyed themselves – in the new member states, but also in the border regions – that feels that this is actually not true. I myself had the pleasure of standing on Friday with the Slovenian counterpart Toni Rop on the summit in the tricountry corner, where a few kilometres away the Isonzo, the Isonzo Valley, is where 1.5 million people died in the First World War. And it is a special joy to feel that such a thing can never be repeated again! It was a great joy in the same evening in Prussia/Bratislava, and it was noticeable that people felt that the Slovaks could for the first time freely decide in their history, democratically decided that they want to belong to this common Europe, that they are no longer foreign to Budapest or Vienna or Prague – nor, please, from Brussels. This is a great joy and much more important than many topics that are so highly played in these days. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Or: When I, with Péter Medgyessy, the Hungarian Prime Minister, in Sopronpuszta, near Ödenburg, again symbolically cut the barbed wire, it was certainly a gesture, but it was also much more: It was really homecoming in Europe, it was a reunification of Europe! And I say quite openly: We should reflect on this on a day like today and perhaps put back the internal discussions a little bit. Ten years ago, Peter Sloterdijk, a great European philosopher, who lives in part in Austria, wrote a volume – I took it with me – which is absolutely readable. For those who are interested, it means: “If Europe wakes up” and appeared in the Suhrkamp-Verlag. What Sloterdijk then predicted visionary is worth reading and thinking: Europe is a world territory in which the truth and the goodness of life must be asked in a peculiar way. The Europeans should feel like rebels against the miscarriage. And as soon as Europe comes back to life – the title of the book as well – the issues of truth would have to return to the great politics. Europe's deepest thought: that contempt must be resisted. These are also the questions that affect us all: Peace, freedom, social justice, economic performance. And such a Europe – I even say, just such a Europe – has weight as a global player, will be a power of peace, will be a single, functioning economic area and a social and political unity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And now this great essay, which I think is important and moving, which some may share with me with those topics that we have discussed today. A young journalist recently wrote under the title ‘Provinc’: It is provincial to point out the small questions. – I don't think so at all! The new ones also have topics, fears, concerns they touch, such as the sale of their homes to the rich Western Europeans or the protection opportunities for their industry, which fear that it is not fully competitive, or the loss of identity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] And just as we take their concerns seriously, the concerns of the Austrians must also be taken seriously! You just have to see both: The broad line, the whole, but also the topics that touch each individual directly. One of the big questions in these days is of course: Are our jobs safe and secure? You're right, colleague. The answer “seven years of transition period for our labour market” is not the whole answer, it is a partial answer. It is an expression of a temporary interest in protection which the social partners have legitimately demanded as well as the Austrian Federal Government. By the way, at the beginning of the 14 other EU countries – 13 it was; the Germans on our side – were highly criticised for this. In the meantime, everyone is doing it because it is a proper measure in times of weak economic activity. But it is of course much more important that we have prepared the Austrian companies. Austria has 2 per cent of the Union's economic capacity, but 8 per cent of trade with the new Member States! Today we have a trade surplus of €1.5 billion. And this also ensures those 60 000 jobs that have been created since the opening of the Iron Curtain. The prospect of creating another 30 000 additional jobs in Austria is a perspective that gives us hope and that we should work together to achieve it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] A second question, which must be taken very seriously, is: Are our businesses and jobs competitive? I am very grateful to Martin Bartenstein: The real threat to jobs is not from the new members, but from China, India, that is, globalisation! And I believe that the enlargement of the European Union can be an answer, a right, fascinating answer, to this globalisation! Our internal Austrian answer means: improve the tax location! We all know – and you have also criticized it yourself – that: We have a too high level of taxation, so with our 3-billion-€ relief – half of it for the companies – we have really created that requirement so that the Voest continues to invest in Austria, as well as MAGNA, Miba's middle builder and also many other smaller and medium-sized enterprises. We should be happy about this together, because this is the prerequisite for seeing the benefits of this re-unification of Europe in ten years' time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If my and our Bavarian friends are a little angry that Austria is now so interesting that there are already 800 requests, then it is not very bad! Competition is also in old Europe, if one wants to do so, something which cannot be averted, but which is quite natural. The answer to the people in our border regions, who also had many concerns, is – proveable, as last week published –: In the last five years, for example, between 7 and 9 percent of jobs have been created in the border regions of the Burgenland and Carinthia, even more than 11 percent in that Upper Austria and Styria. I believe that the right, concrete answers are what we can be proud of together because of the work and performance of entrepreneurs and employees in these regions. A third question, which, of course, is primarily the responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure and Vice-Presidents, is: Does the traffic overwhelm us? Of course, what Peter Schieder said is right, that since the opening of the east, there has been a lot of abstinence. Only: the current answer – and I say this because the Minister cannot praise himself; I say it completely unfavorable, because it is true, it is verifiable – is: Since 2000, 50 percent – half! – more invested in rail and road than in the period before 2000. That is the concrete answer, and not the rhetoric, not the protests against the transit! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If Hubert Gorbach signed the contract for the construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel with his Italian counterpart Pietro Lunardi last week – €5 billion, the largest transport project ever in history! – then this is the concrete answer that our people want from us. And if Hubert Gorbach, together with the social partners and the Board of Directors of the ÖBB last week, has created a very great solution for the structure of the ÖBB and also in the law of the service, then this is at least as exciting as the functioning introduction of the truck toll to which perhaps other European countries are currently a little envied. So: Specific answers to the legitimate concerns of people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, there was also the question: Does enlargement cost us too much? I have once said that I am not an pea narrator, because in reality it is an investment in peace, in our own security, in our own future. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: There are other voices!]] [[Call:Authors]] But I also say: Our letter, i.e. the letter from the net payers, concerning the limit of contributions to 1% of our gross domestic product means that we are paying €25 billion, i.e. 25 percent more than today, into the EU budget. And I also say quite openly: I do not understand that we do not have to do exactly the same thing as the national states do in their budgets, which is important, what is priority, which is perhaps not so important. Furthermore, we are only at the beginning of the negotiations, and everyone knows that we need a compromise at the end of the negotiations, because we have to reach unanimity in these areas. It is important to me, however, that this question is also addressed and that it is not simply a loose big man's stump, saying that it is quite the same, how much it costs. It is our duty and obligation to ask: How much Europe needs? What does it cost? What to finance? A very important question of people is: How safe are we after enlargement? This is the Austrian answer – and this is more than just a small reflection, which is one of the very big reforms in this period of government: Safety from a single source – Customs, Gendarmerie, Police together at the Ministry of the Interior! This alone brings 1,000 additional police directly to the streets, to the safety of people. That is the right answer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] The same applies to cross-border cooperation. I would like to thank the present ambassadors and politicians in their countries for putting together the tradesmen, the drug dealers, the criminals, the organized criminals. These must not be the first to benefit from the opportunities of the open Europe. We must make hell hot to them, we must make life difficult for them! Ernst Strasser has the task of really doing this. Ladies and gentlemen! Some people ask: Will we also be able to play a role in this enlarged Union? Will we be heard?, you poster from the SPÖ. The answer I believe to be correct is to send the best personalities to the relevant institutions! I would like to know already recognized and also to ask of the opposition that our Franz Fischler, who was sent to Brussels ten years ago, today, after Michel Barnier went down to the French government, was responsible for 90 percent of the EU budget, made his case great and heard in the European Union. We can be proud of this together! [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Members of Parliament Neudeck and Bucher.]] The Foreign Minister, who has initiated the regional partnership with the friends of the neighbouring countries, is of course also heard in Europe. We also play a role in the Constitutional Convention, as well as in the Convention members, which cannot be spoken of in small terms, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Members of Parliament Neudeck and Bucher.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Therefore, at the end of the day: I think Austria is well prepared! We must be careful in many areas so that we can really benefit from the opportunities, but I believe that Austria has a voice in Europe. In particular, the most recent reports, such as an international study, show that Austria has continued to come forward in the recent assessment of the world economy. We have even overtaken Switzerland. Just consider whether this was considered possible five or ten years ago! Now that is what was a secret or outspoken desire with 1 20 years ago, Utopia, ten years ago. May become reality: Europe has grown together, the broken heart of Europe is one again! You are welcome! Together we are stronger!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6237	Mr. Gorbach has made his first speech. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6255	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. Federal Chancellor! Government colleagues! It was the Swiss historian Jakob Burckhardt who once said: “The essence of history is the transformation.” High house! ==References== This year, through the enlargement of the European Union, history, and that was indeed a great change! Following the fall of the Iron Curtain in 1989, Austria itself became a country in the centre of Europe and was able to further intensify the historically grown and good cultural, economic, social and, of course, scientific relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Austria, which, with Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Slovenia, has four of the ten new EU accession countries as a direct neighbor and the longest mainland border of all EU countries – these are at least 1 300 kilometres, so Vienna-Bregenz and back, a long way as I know! – has a very special role here. The enlargement of the European Union is an opportunity for the development of a region of stability and prosperity throughout Europe. Enlargement offers Austria the opportunity to create an area of peace, stability and prosperity in the centre of Europe. We have heard it today, the question is often asked: What does this enlargement bring us? What does the great Europe bring us? It means: goods, financial, wealth. I think we politicians of all parties have a whole here. important task, namely the task of putting Europe's peace project much more at the centre, much more also in our statements, and not always to specify which tax systems could cause us problems – that is also important – which traffic problems are present and which are addressed – that is also important! – but to make it clear that the enlargement of the Union means the final overcoming of an almost 60-year-old division of Europe and thus the largest peace project the European Union presents itself. Ladies and gentlemen! Peace in Europe is the highest good that we can give to the people of Europe, which we can also give to our people, especially the generations after us. It is not possible to calculate peace and stability in money. Peace and stability are priceless. High house! This peace project must be of great value to us! We must bring this peace project much closer to the people, and we must explain to them how valuable it is! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, no question. It's not all gold that shines! And we must not close our eyes to possible risks, to really difficult challenges. We also need to draw the public's attention to the fact that there will be sharp winds there and there, even sharper than before. I believe that this has been missed or not done to the necessary extent when Austria joins the European Union. If, for example, the location competition with Slovakia, the one with 1. A flat-tax tax tax system has been introduced in January 2004, if, for example, Bratislava's neighbouring airport is becoming more and more competitive, if it becomes a competitor for Vienna's Schwechat, then we must have answers to it. The tax reform that we will be discussing tomorrow is an excellent, great answer and a proof that this government has optimally prepared this Austria for enlargement. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have heard that the transitional periods up to seven years cannot be put in the foreground. I've been on the road in border areas lately, in Burgenland, in Lower Austria, also in Carinthia. The concern about job desertion, the concern about the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises, is a great one, this concern must be taken seriously! That is why these transitional periods are very important. You're not the whole program, not a question. But they are very important and, above all, they are also an expression of how the Austrian negotiation principle has stated, namely to develop tailor-made solutions to specific problems of enlargement. This is the Austrian negotiation success! And we should be happy about this success in the negotiations together! Ladies and gentlemen! I have also heard that many things have been missed, for example in the field of transport policy. One colleague nodds, another has also mentioned this, which was once the responsibility of the Minister for Transport. Who was Minister of Transport in 1989? Who was 1994, 1995, 1996 Transport Minister? – Not a representative of this government! I only draw attention to this and underline what the Federal Chancellor has already said: It will be invested and spent as much money as never before for both road infrastructure and rail infrastructure and, by the way, because this has been mentioned, research and development for the benefit of the population, to improve infrastructure! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In a few years one cannot pick up all that has been missed in many years. I'm just telling you the following: I immediately began not only to hold meetings with my colleagues, the transport ministers of the four neighbouring countries, but also to hold multimodal - i.e. with rail, shipping, aviation and road transport - management corridors, which we regularly discuss, at intervals of two months, at official level and talk about problems, voting and coordination; and we have also agreed to control, discuss and deny this politically every six months. As mentioned, in the last 12 months, I have driven the most important issue in the North-South connection in Europe, namely the Brenner Base Tunnel, through two memorandas and through a state agreement, signed last Friday by Pietro Lunardi and my littleness, with a lot of Elan, so that the construction maturity in 2006 is actually in tangible proximity. – The largest tunnel project in the world! These, ladies and gentlemen, are measures that are not of course from today to tomorrow, but these are important, successful achievements in the field of transport policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If I spoke today on the subject of “Extensive Europe”, it would be incomplete, I would not also mention Temelín, because one should also mention what concerns one’s concern about what concerns one’s concern. I believe that we should not only act as a model member country of the EU as regards nuclear power – what we can do because of a decision by the population, thank God! – but we should continue to do everything in the direction of nuclear-free Europe. The following generations, who have to live with the risks that are not properly estimated to their extent, will thank us. We are, I believe, obliged to pursue this path intensively. I insist that a sustainable energy policy, an environmentally friendly energy policy, a forward-looking energy policy in this Europe will be a breakthrough sooner or later. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to mention – Mr Bösch has already done so – the Beneš decrees. I mean, if one takes the Copenhagen criteria seriously, which, in addition to certain economic circumstances, require institutional stability as a guarantee of democratic and rule of law, respect for human rights and respect for and protection of minorities, then one must also talk about these things and, above all, do everything in the future to reach a solution for both in common talks, in good talks with our neighbours in the Czech Republic. This will also have to continue to be an effort of Austria. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a quote from Konrad Adenauer about the situation, as I mean, very well: “The unity of Europe was a dream of few. She became a hope for many. It is a necessity for everyone today." Let us accept the much-quoted challenge, let us take advantage of the much-quoted opportunities, but above all put the European Union's peace project in the foreground!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6367	We are going into the debate on the statement. The speaking time is known. The first speaker to speak is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6391	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! This morning, we held a joint commemorative meeting of the National Council and the Federal Council against racism and violence in the Reichsrat meeting room, and this afternoon we are discussing the enlargement of the European Union. - Where's the bow? For me, he's very clear: The idea of the European Union, the idea of European unification, has grown out of this fight against war, against violence, against racism and against nationalism, and that is fascinating. That is why we are now also saying with enthusiasm “Welcome!” because this Europe of peace, freedom, stability, security and prosperity has now increased. – Welcome, new members of the European Union! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are often not aware of this dimension in view of the daily realities that move us. 60 years ago, ladies and gentlemen, there was a war on this continent that killed millions of people. 50 years ago, ladies and gentlemen, our home country Austria was fourfold occupied and at that time had no freedom, not the possibility of self-determined shape of the future. Ten years ago, ladies and gentlemen, just ten years ago, the Austrian National Council passed the Accession Act – with 35 votes against – which offered us the opportunity to vote in favour of Austria having brought membership into the European Union. We have recently decided to extend the European Union by two votes against in the House. This is what you see, ladies and gentlemen: This Europe is in development, it lives, we are shaping this story with! [[In the case of the ÖVP, the Freeman as well as the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] It is fascinating to remember that with these ten new members, in these ten new partners, former sub- republics of the Soviet Union, there are countries that have joined the Warsaw Pact. You also recognize the historical dimension of this step, which, from my point of view, is the last stone of the one started in the 1980s. Just think of Poland, the demonstrations of the Solidarnosc in Gdansk. Hardly fought – with human sacrifices, of which we are often unaware – became this freedom, the freedom that now enables these countries to go peacefully and self-determinedly to Europe. Peaceful and self-determined – no self-evidentness on this continent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I don't know how you did, but of course I also have the many interviews from the capitals of these new partner countries, which took place on 1st. May have been led to mind if you want to. What has happened to me is that almost everyone has said that this is the great opportunity for young people in these countries, for young people in these countries, to shape their lives differently from the older generation who have experienced insecurity, prison, war and violence. For this opportunity for young people to be able to make their lives free in this new Europe, it is worth working. The Austrian People's Party, which from the beginning has fought very consistently for this European agreement, therefore – and you will understand this – has this 1. In May, it was experienced with special emotionality. After all, it was Erhard Busek, who was traveling in these countries with the dissidents who were in prison at the time, where it was still quite in and chic to keep in touch with the communist rulers. Alois Mock, who has fought this European reunification with great personal use, is closely linked to this; as is Franz Fischler, Benita Ferrero-Waldner, Wolfgang Schüssel and many others. But – and this But we owe people in our country and also people in the new partner countries! Of course, there is not only the historical dimension, this one side of the medal, but there are also the other. We need to make it clear to people that this new and larger Europe offers more security if we now take the opportunities, for example through these intergovernmental agreements, through better cooperation between police services to combat trafficking in human beings, drug dealers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We can also have this increase in security in the fight against terrorism. Austria has already responded correctly, for example with the already mentioned association of executive forces or also with the new asylum law. The regulations on the labour market are correct and important. I'm telling you openly, I don't understand the criticism of the seven-year-frist. This deadline has been jointly developed and is being fought together in Europe. If it is considered correct in Germany by a red-green government, I do not understand that social democrats or Greens are going out of here today and are criticizing this seven-year transitional period, which actually protects the Austrian labour market in the interests of workers. The seven-year transitional period for small and medium-sized enterprises, ladies and gentlemen, which will certainly not be easy, because competition is more competitive, helps to ensure that businesses and their employees can adapt to the new competitive situation. Propos new competitive situation. We wouldn't tell people the truth if we didn't make this clear: The enlargement of the European Union brings new competitors! - Yeah, that's right. The enlargement of the European Union will present new challenges to the competitiveness of Austria. That is why we are giving them answers with the tax reform, with the research initiative, with the educational initiative, for example also in language training, the right answers in order to guarantee the location and competitiveness of Austria, which will be more demanding, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: English lessons!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: An absurd arrangement!]] In the border regions, in our rural regions and in agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, the broadband initiative also sets out the disadvantages of these regions. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: A dishonest solution!]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I also say quite openly that enlargement on 1st January. May – and perhaps you take note of this, Mr Jarolim – is by no means the end, but the beginning of a process. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] But because this is the beginning of a process, we must not make the mistake of communicating with people that the reforms we have done so far are the end of the flag rod and we can now stand still. No, no, no, A standstill against the background of enlargement means in truth a step backwards. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: Who wants to stop?]] We must make it clear that enlargement and this European dimension, as far as willingness to change are concerned, will continue to demand a number of things in the future. – Yes, that’s the truth! The truth is not only reasonable in this sense, but it is also necessary to express it. We will only be competitive then...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6510	Mr Jarolim, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6526	... if we live the willingness to change in the future, live daily. What we expect from the enterprises and from the workers must be lived by politics. Competitiveness must be developed every day, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this respect, of course, not only Austria but also Europe is required. This larger Europe, for example, places stronger demands on the growth potential of this continent, places stronger demands on the decision-making capacity of the European institutions, also places stronger demands on the deregulation that we need. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly what it's all about: Europe is constantly making it possible for us to experience it. And that's what we're on 13th. June also have the possibility: Select Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6571	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I ask the ÖVP to withdraw the Taferln now. You know, we have a convention here in the house. [[The representatives of the ÖVP remove the above-mentioned tablets from their tables.]] The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6598	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! This one. May of the year 2004 is indeed an impressive historical date: The European Union will grow. However, the development of this larger European merger was not on rails, because, as has already been said, we have been taking the next essential step since 1989, and we must not forget that the freedom that has existed after 1989 has led to different manifestations in Europe: in a part of the Central and Eastern European states, to democratic transformation, to the development of new market economies, and in other parts of Europe, to genocide and new war. This shows us that history is not predetermined, but that it essentially depends on what is done with the conditions that are historically given in political design. Therefore, there is also no designated path to peace, security and prosperity through the enlargement that is now being made. The enlargement of the European Union on 1 January 1989. May this year offers the opportunity to make Europe safer and richer, and the task of policy at European and national level will be to take advantage of these opportunities. Of course, the redemption of the promises of history will not come. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there is a great responsibility for dealing with this newly designed Europe – responsibility, especially if one knows that the large majority of the Austrian population sees more risks than opportunities in this enlargement process, especially if one knows that the scepticism in Austria Reference to the European integration project in recent years has not become smaller, but larger. Especially when we are faced with this mood in the population, the challenge to politics is extremely great. In this context, it is not a promotion of the European idea if there is still no consensus on the European Constitution at European level. In the light of this scepticism, the European idea is not well served if, as yesterday, the Bureau of the European Parliament is unable to provide transparent payment and salary schemes. Here we are called, ladies and gentlemen, all together! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! If you say that concrete concerns need to be given concrete answers, I agree with you. But all that you have told us today, you have said over the past few months and years – but the approval of the population has not grown! Do you not have to ask yourself, in this context, whether the measures you have listed to us today have not been too few to give the Austrian population the confidence that this enlargement process will be implemented well and for all people? Do you not have to ask yourself whether all that has happened so far was not too little to boost growth if you – yesterday – have to report that the unemployment rate has reached a historic peak? Do you not have to ask yourself whether the announced investments in the infrastructure were not too few? At least there is no danger that we will be overrun by a traffic addict, no, because there is no longer any role to play. What is happening is the permanent congestion in East-West traffic! Do you not also have to ask yourself whether there is not much too little done to prepare the Austrian companies for enlargement, especially when it comes to the qualifications of employees? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think beautiful speeches won't convince people. Measures that need to be taken must also be felt and experienced by people. And if there is no progress in transport policy, if there is no relaxation on the labour market, if there is no higher growth, then, Federal Chancellor, you have to change your policy, because the previous measures were obviously not enough! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] If you stay with comparisons, I have to say: Figures have a deceptive effect, Mr. Federal Chancellor. To tell Austrians that we have overtaken Switzerland – with all appreciation –: There the gross domestic product per capita per year is still around €1,000 higher than in Austria, the unemployment rate is also below the Austrian level. Test So you don't want to scatter sand into the eyes of the people! Let us stick to the challenges we are facing here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, the feeling of the population is right that in recent years much has been missed, which would have been necessary to prepare for EU enlargement. There is nothing to do with speaking up these past years, but it is about taking at least now the opportunity to do all that has not been done. From this point of view: The reason why the Austrian Parliament must also become active in continuing the determinations we have already made here in the House and call on the Austrian Federal Government to do what it has not done so far. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We are therefore also presenting in this debate a motion for a resolution on accompanying measures necessary to accompany the enlargement of the European Union. We call on you to use all the scope to strengthen economic growth in Austria and to promote the creation of new jobs. We call on you to put in place economic-invigorating measures which are really effective and lead to employment. We call on you to ensure a €200 million training package in order to strengthen the qualifications of employees in Austria. We call on you to finally take action against illegal employment in Austria, which is still not under control, and to take effective measures in the area of transit, which also lead to a visible relaxation on the Austrian motorways and roads. Ladies and gentlemen! The historical judgment on today's political agents will take place if, in a few years' time, people ask the following question: Is our life worse or is our life better in the background of what is going on in history? Our common task must be to ensure that this enlargement project contributes to improving the living conditions of people in the old Member States and also in the new Member States of the European Union. Then there will be a greater awareness of Europe and less skepticism, then there will be a yes to the entire population without reservations. Those reservations that exist now cannot be spoken away. This must be eliminated by a reasonable, committed policy so that the voice of the Austrians in Europe is heard again.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6729	The motion for a resolution Dr. Gusenbauer, Dr. Einm will be distributed in writing to the members of the National Council as a result of its extent. It has been explained in its basic guidelines and is sufficiently supported and is therefore part of the negotiation and voting process. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6829	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6847	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! It's true: The major celebrations for EU enlargement are over. The posters, the flags have disappeared almost everywhere. It is again discussed why the population in most of the Member States of the European Union cannot understand what is so often ordered from above – enthusiasm, enthusiasm: the benefits of this European Union and all that will be beneficial to the population. We are now again discussing the reports on the increasing EU scepticism in the population, the questions of the dubiously low electoral participation forecasted for the upcoming European elections, and also the fears of the rulers in the individual countries about whether they are to re-establish one of the European Union's materials on the issue of a referendum in their countries, because these referendums are mostly lost. Where are the problems in practice? Why is this awareness of Europe not, even though in so many high-gloss brochures, in so many ads, in so many beautiful and spiritual speeches, one tries to reorganise this awareness of Europe? Is it perhaps not – and Mr Gusenbauer said it in a speech to be attributed to self-criticism – that beautiful speech at the national level? I can still remember many speech donations before Austria joins the EU, what they have promised to do – keyword: “Eder-Tausender” – without really putting the findings on reality on the table, discussing the problems, looking for improvements and solutions together with the population, and also looking for understanding. Or: It says, for example, that everything is fine, that EU enlargement is a big and beautiful project, that everything is well prepared that all the still open questions would somehow be resolved. But anything that could be present in problems will be turned under the table. Anyone who practices criticism, anyone who wants to put questions on the paper and discuss them, is discredited by standard not only as a European scepticist, but also as an anti-European. However, I believe that these problems of the European Union exist precisely through this gap between the principle and the implementation of the principles, between right and reality, between the institutions and the people of this Europe. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, and we should do everything we can to overcome this gap between theory and reality, between institution and population in Europe. Then – and only then! – we will get this awareness of Europe that we all want and that we need on this continent. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] European integration, ladies and gentlemen, is a century project – a century project of the 20th and 21st centuries. ==References== Mr Vice-Chancellor said: This peace project was at the beginning and is still at the heart of this European integration. – But also there is not much talk about it, nor is it included; perhaps because peace and security are considered to be of course where one has it. Especially in a country like Austria, we do not need to be surprised that this security and this peace are taken as a matter of course, in a country in which people – including political representatives – have been represented for years and decades, that peace and security in Austria can be secured by law books, by dogmas, by terms and by international treaties. Thank God this line has never had to take up the proof of truth. We know that precisely this European integration, the merging of former opponents, has brought stability, peace and security to this Europe, that we have overcome wars, that we - and we have thought of them today - have overcome the darkest chapters of our history and have gained the strength for a common future. This is also a positive aspect of EU enlargement. Europe as a continent is more than the former 15 member countries of this European Union. That is why we are very pleased that there is this principle of enlargement. There were also a lot of symbols in this last round of enlargement in the EU: Countries of the former Eastern Bloc are now members of this community of values. Yes, even three former Soviet countries have become members of this community of values! For Austria, of course, this EU enlargement offers opportunities in the fields of economic and security. The new asylum law is already showing its initial impact in this larger Europe. Thank God it has enforced this government – against the voices of the opposition. We will now also have the opportunity, if we use it, through an active foreign policy with these new small and medium-sized member countries of the European Union, to perhaps better implement some of our interests in the European Union. But – and it is necessary to say this too – in some areas there has also been a gap between theory and practice in this round of expansion. Let's look at the field of security! What about the principle that only safe states can become members of the European Union that there should be no border problems? – You have to do that – unfortunately! – ask: How diletantic did one miss the opportunity in Cyprus, for example, to be admitted to the European Union and to reach a real solution to this decades-long conflict with the people and the rulers in that divided country? – Nothing has been achieved! Who knows if this chance will come back soon? Or: What about the enforcement of human rights standards? – The Vice-Cancellor referred to it. We're still waiting for the promised ones. Repeal of the Amnesty Laws and Beneš Decrees. The last decisions to honour Mr Beneš are certainly not going in the direction we expect all of us – everyone! – stand in the European Union without delay on the beautiful sides of our history, but also on the dark side. Wherever violence against the innocent has been committed, where murder, torture has been committed, it must also be recognized as injustice. No longer, but no less so, we demand from all the Member States of this Union of Values in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. What about the preparations for EU institutions regarding EU constitution? – I also believe that it would be a signal if a European referendum were to be decided on in the EU, hopefully, so that the population would feel as well: We decide on how this Europe will shape itself in the future! Then we must and should not talk about next and next rounds of enlargement and not even about areas geographically only to a small extent in Europe. Let us try to do from this Europe, from this Europe, which is now being expanded, from this European Union what it is supposed to be: a Europe of citizens, a Europe of the diversity of cultures and of the Fatherlands, but not a Europe of bureaucrats and institutions! Then we will have no more problems finding understanding of the difficult aspects of this European agreement, then we will no longer need to discuss the importance of voting participation for European Parliaments, which should be more talking about how to solve their own pay problems, and how they can better represent the interests of the people of the national states – keyword: Transit contract. Then this Europe is really borne by the consciousness of people, and that should be our goal!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6954	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Same time of speech: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6972	Ladies and gentlemen! As a fourth speaker in the debate on such a subject, to develop the appropriate pathos, this is not easy, Mr Molterer, believe me! I agree with many of your comments. ==References== May has been a historic day, you have to say. He is not overestimated in his importance. Several of my previous speakers have already stressed that among the ten new EU members there are no fewer than seven from the sphere of influence of the former Soviet Empire. For some of these countries is this day, the 1. May, perhaps in some way comparable to the situation of Austria in 1955, with the State Treaty. I believe that in Central Europe, after the Second World War, after Stalinist terror in these countries, the conditions – if we wish to call it so very much – are finally put on the feet of the head in Central Europe. But now we find a strange phenomenon. I like to believe – and I hope, of course – that the approval of the ten new members was very high. The referendums have produced fantastic results, and the population has hopefully reached 1st place. May be pleased accordingly. However, in the case of the EU-15, we note some lethargy: So, now we have ten new ones in the club! So what? Has this made the problems smaller? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Now I have to ask one thing: If in the population of the EU-15 there are so many concerns, fears, some resentments and, for the most part, unwarranted fears, who is responsible now, Mr Molterer? Is it once again the opposition parties that owe it? – In one area I would even say that it is not the opposition party SPÖ, but it is not the trade unions and the chambers that are not indifferent to the concern of the population because of the fact that there will be a flood of the domestic labour market over the next seven years. I think that this statement is a displeasure. But in all other cases: Who's to blame? In this context, I would like to quote from the last issue of the journal “The Economist”. There was a long article on EU enlargement. Three major series of stories were mentioned in the editorial, i.e. stories that cause fear and terror among the population in terms of EU enlargement. These are the “migrants”, i.e. the immigration issue, the “transfers”, the budget question, which is what the new countries cost, and the “competition”, the question of increasing competition. Let's go through this for a second. There would have been increased competition from the applicant countries without formal accession. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not to that extent!]] Not so strong, not in the single market, but there would have been him anyway. Thank God! Competition is a good thing, even in politics, I stand by it. What really bothers me is – how am I supposed to say? – the perception that competition is one-sided. It is great if the OMV in Romania wants to buy something or has already bought in Slovenia, if Austrian banks, Austrian insurance companies in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland have conquered a lot of market shares, I find that excellent, but one-way road is not! Sometimes one, such a foreigner, comes up such a strange one, and also buys a company from us in Austria. Maybe we should get used to it slowly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, this is not a purely Austrian phenomenon. Also in Germany, there was an uproar in Lower Saxony at the time when the Voest, this “evil intruder” from the south, tried to buy a steel plant there. [[Abg. Großruck: Vranitzky has prevented it! From the WestLB!]] There were exactly the same fears of these “rabious capitalists ” who appeared from the southeast. On the budget question: I do not think there is a reasonable person in the EU-15 just as in the EU-10 – so I call it – who is interested in making the EU-10 a mezzogiorno or an ex-DDR through permanent, too high, misstructured ‘transfers’. Nobody! At the ex-DDR, you can easily observe how you shouldn't have done something. But that's snow from yesterday. That's clear. But only the example suggests something wrong. Slovenia is richer than Greece in income per capita, in the case of social products per capita. The area around Bratislava is also booming, the income there is higher than in many regions of Austria. To argue about it now – this is not a matter of opposition again! Among other things, it was our government politicians who said: The 1.27 percent of GDP allocated to the Brussels budget – gross, please! – to be delivered – this is the contractual situation – are too high for us, it should be only 1 percent! - Gross! I have not now deducted what comes back to Austrian agriculture and so on from the Brussels budget. The EU is constantly facing new tasks – and this is indeed a huge new task – but to say, it must never cost more in life than before, I think it is bad. I was very happy about the expression of Chancellor Schüssel, when he said: I'm not a pea counter! - Great! But the second sentence was: 1 percent instead of 1.27 it must be. This comes from one of the richest countries in the EU! – This is not the way to promote European thought if such statements always come from the Heads of Government! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: It does not consist of just...!]] Don't be surprised when the population sees very different topics! The misunderstandings also exist in Austria – half Austria believes that the Spesen debate will determine the future of the EU, which is to a great extent ridiculous. I also do not necessarily have to discuss Beneš in every enlargement debate. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: But the signal effect is already important!]] Beneš was an important Czech politician – I repeat it for the xth time – but the Beneš decrees are not to be defended, but under the same Beneš is thousands, including Austrians who fled Hitler, asylum and Czech citizenship... – This is not a principle, the help for asylum seekers who have fled from Hitler? [[Abg. Scheibner: But it is about principles!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Or do you now share in good and bad...?]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You don't think that's a principle? Mr Scheibner, think again about what you are saying here. [[Abg. Scheibner: You should consider what you are saying here!]] The third Misston is Cyprus, I have to say that. I think this is a failure of European policy. One should have told the Cypriots in all friendship: You step into unity or not at all! – The situation that has now arisen is grotesk: The Greek Cypriot population, which voted against, is part of the Union, and the Turkish Cypriot part that voted for unity is excluded. If I have understood correctly the mess that has arisen here – that is a big question – then the Turkish Cypriots are entitled to vote in the European Parliament, but are not allowed to vote “their” – under quotation marks – government in Nicosia, because they do not belong to it. – You have to think of it once! I have often stressed enough here in the plenary session of the National Council how the Greens depend on the EU enlargement that we stand behind it with full strength and with all our heart. I have said this so often that I now also say: We have some worries too! For example, we are concerned about the common foreign policy of the European Union. Of course you can say: If we don't need it, then you also have to accept that the United States is always maintaining its domination. So, in short, I do not think that we need a common foreign policy in Europe. An example for the economists: In the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, EU countries have 30 percent of voting rights, the USA 17 percent. But who's going through? – Always the US, because Europeans are unable to speak with one voice. In the run-up to EU enlargement, it was sometimes felt that it was already very important for one candidate country or another to join the European Union, but perhaps a trace would have been better than 51. State to join the USA. – You should consider where the interests lie in the long term! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not want to be misunderstandingd, I do not want to place European pathos in the place of the previous national pathos, but more than the OSCE, more than a free trade area, in our opinion, the EU should already be! This will in the long run require a common foreign policy, which, moreover, is also a prerequisite for a single European defence. ==References== May was a beautiful day – we were all happy – but today is already Wednesday, 5. May, and it will not hurt to remind us of the failure of the EU-15 – with all the joys of accession. The Lisbon process is on the rise. If we continue in this way, the EU – whether 15 or 25 – will not be world market leader in 2010, in any field. Productivity is lagging behind that of the USA. The absolute growth rates are too low to combat unemployment. We all know that, and we all want to scratch the sleeves, but initially and primarily responsible, please beautiful, are still the government and the parties that bear the government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7135	Further words are not available, according to agreement, so I can close the debate. The oral application has now been distributed. This gives the conditions for voting on it. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, Dr. Eins and colleagues on the enlargement of the European Union and the internal Austrian flanking measures. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who have approved this motion for a resolution in order to give an appropriate sign. – The request did not find the majority. 2. Point Report of the Committee of Justice on the Government template (424, e.g._Other Organiser United Nations Convention against Transboundary Organized Crime (455 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7182	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There is no need for oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. Mr Miedl. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's The proposal for a voluntary time limit is 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7206	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The debate is about a United Nations Convention against Transboundary Organised Crime. Austria should ratify this agreement, Austria should join this agreement, ladies and gentlemen. The purpose of this Agreement is to: Crime will be combated, and candidate countries will be obliged to do everything they can to combat this criminal form of organisation. Ladies and gentlemen! What is to be regulated? – In reality, Austria has a very high level and a very high standard of combating crime, but is embedded in international crime. We therefore have everything to do, together with other countries, to announce these forms of crime. We must succeed in finding a way to punish the organized crimes, including corruption and wrongdoing of entities and societies. We should do everything we can to fight the money laundering and the proceeds from money laundering together. We should improve the reach and speed of extradition, and we should better protect the witnesses who say against organized criminals than before. We should improve cooperation to investigate and take action against suspects. - We've done all of this. I would like to say a few things very concretely, ladies and gentlemen, because I have recently told you here in the house about my visit to America. There I had to learn from the police in what condition the world security is in. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2003, as much poppy was grown in Afghanistan as never before. This means that huge amounts of addiction – heroin in this case – will flood Europe, which will mean suffering for whole families and the death of many people. The money generated will be spent on the financing of terrorism. This is a form of crime, ladies and gentlemen. Other forms include trafficking in women, trade in women, trafficking in prostitution, child trafficking, child pornography, drug trafficking, as mentioned above, trade in radiant material – I think, the latter is a danger that we are far too little aware of, because this can mean danger for thousands of people and may become extortionable to entire states – arms trafficking and much more. Ladies and gentlemen! The United Nations has recognized that these forms of crime can only be combated in the cooperation of states. I am very happy about this agreement because we are defining legal standards worldwide for the first time. Last autumn, the Convention entered into force, and we should go to 28. This decision was adopted in May in order to be able to ratify the paper so that Austria joined the Palermo Convention. Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about forms of organised crime, we need to know that in many cases perpetrators and victims have no interest in cooperating with the police or the organisations responsible for combating it. I bring an example: Have you thought about it before, and you are aware that in the whole complex of drug crime neither perpetrator nor victim – question: Who's what? – is there an interest in cooperating with the police that there will be a whole new strategy and process to enable the police to have the appropriate knowledge and then proceed with it? Are you aware, ladies and gentlemen, that only in the USA 40 billion dollars a year – 40 billion dollars a year! – be implemented and dealt with by organised crime? We must therefore succeed in getting money laundering under control. We should, and this is also contained in this Convention, pay greater attention to the regulatory and supervisory systems of banks and give money laundering more importance than before. We should do everything we can to get the corruption under control. Today, in preparing for this speech, I have fallen into my hands a corruption index of all states, i.e. a global one. I was quite calmed because Austria has the very "doing" and very "clean" fourth place worldwide; in Europe only beaten by Finland. That's all right! But if we do not manage corruption, we will lose the fight against organized crime. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Because the Minister of Justice is here – he is, as with many of these questions, of course here –: As a member of this House, Mr. Justice Minister, I would like to thank you very much for the StPO reform; a century work that allows the prosecutor and the court of the time to proceed properly. We have been very criticised for this reform, but we need it. If the Minister of the Interior were here, I would praise the Minister of the Interior for having started the executive reform, ladies and gentlemen, because it is extremely necessary, Mr Jarolim, since a reform has long been slept by the SPÖ Ministers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Jarolim]] I think we have every reason to address reforms in this area, and we have every reason to agree with this Convention with a joyful heart. It is about the security of citizens in our country, and it is about global security. It is worth standing up today and raising his voice for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7290	The next speaker is Mr Jarolim. The watch is gladly set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7309	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We welcome this government template, which corresponds to an international agreement. On this occasion, I should like to point out that it is being formally implemented today, but that it already exists in Austria and is therefore an understanding. Mr President, if we are talking here about the fight against crime in the international context, we must bear in mind that this is, of course, a question of credibility. Because you're here today in the framework I would like to thank the Minister for his speech to the Minister for Justice, but I would like to thank him for having succeeded in bringing down the idea of Grasser and Schüssel regarding tax amnesty to him – and I would like to congratulate him on his warm congratulations. You deserve our respect for this, and I congratulate you, Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I am saying this because it is of course a question of credibility, if you say that you want to harmonise international criminal police and criminal developments, you want to work together, but at the same time take steps at home, which make this appear in a different light. For example, if, in order to return to the tax reform, we hear from the Minister of Finance that he wants to turn on the screw during the limitation periods, but not in the direction that there should be a longer limitation period, but, quite the contrary, Mr Oillinger, you know that – and shorter limitation periods, I naturally wonder: Is that legitimate, and how does that fit in with the other? I hope that the Minister of Justice will also take account of this unbearable drive and prevent it in the same successful manner as in the tax amnesty. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to point out that the legal person has also been referred to here. We expressly note in the presentation that there should also be the criminality of the legal person, in connection with very prominent serious criminal offences. On the one hand, I am glad that the Minister of Justice has recognized that we have been in a delay for two years with the implementation of a European standard complex, on the other hand, Mr Fekter – she is not in the hall, but perhaps you can do it; I do not see it, but perhaps it is behind the eye – represents the position, we do not really need the criminality of the legal person, it would be enough to have the administrative penalty law. I can tell you: The administrative criminal law is totally unacceptable for those offences that are affected here, which must also be regulated in criminal law with regard to the legal person. I believe that this too is a question of credibility. If you really want to fight crime internationally, you have to do so with legal persons, not as Mr Fekter last explained with a sham. I hope you'll really do this. Of course, it sounds good when we say that we want to reposition ourselves Europeanally, internationally in the fight against crime, but if I look at what we are doing domestically, ladies and gentlemen, then I have to say: That's a disaster! Mr Justice Minister, you also know: We have been ridiculed in Europe, and the criminal police reform that we have implemented – why did Mr Miedl congratulate here? – is referred to in expert circles as being by far the most stupid throughout Europe. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Only the SPÖ!]] I wonder, What are you really proud of with this Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Cheers: Moderate applause!]] My colleague, these are pure facts, I would like to change it, but I am unfortunately not able to do so to God either. When I look at the development of the education rate in Austria from 1999 to 2003, I have to say: [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] It is terrifying how dramatic it is getting worse, but at the same time crime is growing enormously. [[the speaker shows another graphic]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are perfectly right, and I naturally ask myself: What does it justify to say here Interior Minister Strasser that he has done good work? If we in the country are already pudding everything more or less with this “fineth reform”, as it is called internationally, then I think we should first look at it with all humility that we are building a reasonable structure here, in order to be able to proudly point out in the international discussion that Austria has taken a credible position and at least has a minimum of reason, a minimum degree of efficiency in the fight against crime. – This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, and I therefore believe that Interior Minister Strasser and his group should be more ashamed. If I have now registered on the weekend – most of you will have heard it too – that 83 customs authorities of the Vienna police are assigned to it by the dissolution of the customs authorities – with a need of 300! – and the former Salzburger and now Wiener Vice-President of the police and party friend of the Interior Minister “thanks” – under quotations – and says: We have to go into the future with courage! and here is courage as a counterposition to reason, then I have to say: This is where the alarm bells would have to ring! Finally, I can say that I hope that Minister Böhmdorfer will succeed in continuing what he has begun in the area of tax amnesty. I would think that you, Minister Böhmdorfer, should perhaps try in the Federal Government to limit to a reasonable degree the acts of Minister Strasser, who ultimately fall upon us all, that is, the citizens. If that were the case, I'd give you respect in advance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7384	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7403	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This Convention is called Palermo Convention, not because the Sicilian metropolis is often linked to the Mafia, but because this international meeting took place in Palermo. Ladies and gentlemen! Organized crime is everywhere, but it is also in Austria, and we must not overlook it. For example, if we read here “Cocain From the fuel of the Schickeria to the Volksdrage”, if we read about heroin that floods us, what goes so far that in Vienna subway stations already people are already being contacted, whether they do not want to buy addiction, then I have to say: This is organized crime! Where do the asylum seekers come from, whether shineylants or real asylum seekers? They certainly have no compass, no train schedule or any hiking map. The towing industry is part of organised crime, ladies and gentlemen. Trafficking in human beings, an extremely brutal, inhumane and very reckless business that often affects very young people – organised crime here in Austria. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Or, ladies and gentlemen, also the series of bank robbers from which Vienna is currently being visited. I'll show you the pictures here. [[The speaker keeps photos up to date.]] They will anyway know from the daily media what it looks like when bank officials are attacked by brutal criminals. ==References== ==References====External links== Bank robbery took place in Vienna. I've got to say, That's a fair number! Last year, there were 51 bank raids in Vienna, with the end of April of this year there were already 33. There are even bank officials who have been attacked twice this year. Vienna is not sure anymore! Let me say that here, too. Some of these gangs that attack the banks are also recruiting themselves from foreigners in organized crime, such as the South American trade fairbands, as they are called by the campaigners. So organized crime is omnipresent in Austria. That is why international cooperation is more necessary than ever. Austria is, of course, already very far in this cooperation, thank God, we know that. But above all, the EU accession countries, as well as the international community, must finally follow up on this matter and on this cooperation to combat organised crime. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7460	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. The clock is set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7478	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Poštovane lady i gospodo! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the Green Group has also agreed to this United Nations Convention against cross-border crime in the discussion in the Justice Committee. In terms of content, that was perfectly clear. We have also had the greatest understanding of the fact that this was done in a judicial committee called out in a very rapid form, because it would be relatively generous if Austria, whose capital is Vienna, was a UN city and the seat of UN organizations, were finally ratified, which is quite clear. As far as the content is concerned, I do not want to repeat what previous speakers have already said. For me, the main aspect of this Convention is the question of money laundering, because it is really about what is involved. I do not want to mention the question of organised cross-border crime in other areas at all. On the contrary: This is serious, but it is precisely the problem of taking the sources into view where the transfer of the large sums of money is concerned, that seems to me to be the essential. This applies to drug crime to the same extent as to trafficking in human beings, beyond the actual crime. That's why we agree. A brief final remark on the criminality of legal persons. Mr Minister – I have said this several times here – you have been asked. They have brought it to the political debate, thank God, and have found great words after the Kaprun judgment. You don't have much time for the big acts, because you have promised that this will be dealt with this year, now is May. I assume you will also comment on this. The concerns that exist in the ratification of such agreements when it comes to the questions of police, police cooperation across borders, including in the sense of legal protection and civil rights, we have Greens in principle always. I would like to stress this here and say it too. However, the whole is ratified with retention of law, and that is why we will probably have the opportunity to discuss it when it is necessary and also seems necessary from our point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7515	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7533	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It's been said a lot, let me make some more connections. Among other things, this agreement, on this commitment to Austria, is also important to me that crime statistics are detected, which relate to countries which I do not wish to criminalise on a flat-rate basis, but where I want to focus on the fact that they are linked to organised crime, namely Central America, Asia, Africa, drugs and other serious crimes. In my opinion, it is also important to clarify what organized crime in the group means, from three or more persons. So it doesn't have to be the big, much embroidered band, but it already has three people rich. It is equally important, in my view, that the date of criminal proceedings is already being suspended, i.e. an active activity on the one hand, but on the other hand, the date of arrival on the other. The “washing” of money – as you say so beautifully – is also criminalized from proceeds from criminal offences. This is very important, even though we have common sense culturally, that it is so, but this express joint commitment seems to me to be very important, as well as the persecution of corruption and the need for deterrence are clearly addressed. I would like to add one point, which has to do with the agenda, today's debate and today's debate, which our Federal Chancellor, members of the government and prominent representatives of the House spoke about: What does this cooperation obligation mean for the new Europe, for the right which is also set out in the Convention to provide legal aid and to cooperate even more closely. If you have been following the events of the past weeks and months and have seen the ambitions of our Minister of the Interior and how much he looks around the world, how much he cooperates with American crime experts and exchange knowledge, then you can see that in the context of the enlargement of Europe, on the one hand, we need to realize a great idea, but also the truth associated with enlargement, to look into it. I am very pleased that Federal Minister Strasser, of course also with the support of the Minister of Justice – I am not an expert in commenting on the original judicial agenda and judicial policy – is reaping recognition, respect and respect from the experts around the world. Federal Minister Strasser draws attention to the fact that, as the Federal Chancellor pointed out, Europe also has to deal with “provincial”, so-called small questions – on the one hand, the great idea, and on the other hand, life in carrying out the small tasks. This will certainly be even more important in this united Europe. The Federal Chancellor, yes the entire Federal Government, is trying to find concrete answers to this. For example, security in one hand in Austria – from the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of the Interior – bundled essentially with Minister Strasser. This means fighting crime, as it is already possible. I have to inform Mr Jarolim and tell him: The crime reconnaissance rate has increased, the crime reconnaissance rate has been improved – it cannot be clarified; also refusal is an attitude – but the truth is that: [[Abg. May. Molterer: That doesn't help with Jarolim, he can't be explained!]] The Minister will go to the public shortly with his report and thus also convince the last doubters. Also a clarification towards Vienna – it has been mentioned that only 83 additional customs duties are to be expected, although we would need much more –: I don't tell a secret, but I like to remind you: Another 80 employees for the Vienna police have been promised, and the stand will be reviewed in view of the needs, in view of the progress of the investigation of crime cases. It will be up to us to work together here in the House to make sure that we may need even more staff there or there. All the federal states will have to work hard, but I am very glad that we have today welcomed an enlarged united Europe, but with the judicial chapter we are actually saying, in fact, that we have to take care of which side of the shadow, whichever gray sides of this common larger continent we also have to take care of. Europe is good on the go. Austria, of course, agrees with this agreement, and I am very glad that we have come closer to a secure Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7572	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7590	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In order to address organised cross-border crime, I believe that one point is particularly important, which is the trafficking of human beings, which, according to UNICEF, will continue to increase in the course of EU enlargement. The UN Children's Assistance Office estimates that EU enlargement will increase the possibility of finding loopholes to sell people from Eastern, South-East Europe to Europe. According to UNICEF, 120 000 children and women are already sold in the EU countries in particular every year, and many are forced to prostitution in the most brutal way. 90 percent of women who work as prostitutes are victims of trafficking in human beings. 99.7% of all victims of trafficking in human beings are women. This means that trafficking in human beings is a trade in women, and Austria is also very affected by it due to its central geographical situation. Business with the need of women is very lucrative for the perpetrators. There are very high profits worldwide: about 12 billion dollars. This is the third largest criminal business in the world. This lucrative business of trafficking in human beings must also be seen in a wider context. The attempt to deal with this problem has remained largely toothless so far, because the figures mentioned confirm that this has been very difficult and not well done. That is why I am particularly concerned about the protection of the victims. The victims are often disadvantaged in three ways: because they are women, because they are migrants and because they are very often prostitutes. Although Austrian criminal law provides for a more stringent provision for trafficking in women, the most important requirement in this context, which is missing for the detection and persecution of women's dealers, is the protection of witnesses. Very often the victims of women's dealers pay for it because this witness protection is not present, and beneficiaries of it are the perpetrators. That means quite specifically: This stay, which is regulated by decree for humanitarian reasons, should be converted into a legal provision with legal basis. In total, two things seem particularly important to me in order to get to grips with this problem: to create the Witness protection programme for prepared victims – to create very comprehensive! – and, second, – once again – to call for international cooperation. That is why I think it is very important when and where the conference is to take place. This is to take place here in Vienna until the autumn of this year. The Committee has not answered this question. But I think this is very important in the sense of these victims, because they depend on them and for them it is very important that this conference also takes place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7635	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7654	Ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact that organised crime is a cross-border one, and that it explodes. This includes trafficking in women, arms trafficking – we have heard everything today – and drug trafficking. The exploding numbers of prisoners under which the Minister is suffering are also an evocative testimony to how this crime sector has developed. We do not continue with our methods that we have had so far in the persecution of criminals and, in particular, of members of organized gangs. That is why it is urgently necessary to react flexibly, not as before. For example: The completion of a request for legal aid, which is made today – even in countries with a highly developed legal system – often takes one year or two years, and often it is not done at all – so it is an absolutely unsatisfactory situation. That is why we also welcome this agreement, which must be said: Austria has almost completely implemented it, as has already been mentioned. Our courts, our authorities are already working within the meaning of this Convention. But we must already be aware that, in particular among the new EU accession countries, there are many or a number of countries that have not yet developed such a high level of rule of law, so that the government apparatus is corrupt and bribery there. That is why it is particularly important for the Member States – including the candidate countries, the new candidate countries – to undertake or undertake to combat corruption among their own authorities in the field of government. I therefore have great hope that in the next few years there will also be an area in the whole area of the EU where one can trust that the official will only comply with the law, that he will be free from bribery... – not bribery, because the accusations can still be made – that he will not be bribed. Ladies and gentlemen! The following is also very important in this Convention: that the sovereignty of the individual states will not be cut down. That is to say, it must not be directly involved in the sphere of the individual states in the implementation of this Convention, but only the conditions for everything to go faster, more flexible and so on. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Especially in the criminal field, we have always expressed the opinion that sovereignty must apply to the greatest possible extent in all cases. Now, Mr Jarolim, I come to your really horrific accusations, where you said: the stupidest criminal reform; we must be ashamed of it; Austria has become a mockery; the acts of the Minister of the Interior; only then will we be proud of an international agreement when we have significantly reduced crime in Austria. I don't understand at all: Every child in Austria already knows that this crime, which we now have, is not a homemade crime, but that it is imported, Mr Jarolim! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Look at the statistics!]] It is not true that Austria is being ridiculed for its high crime abroad, but quite the contrary: Many countries look jealously at Austria because the crime rate we have is still low in relation to other countries. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: No one looks jealously at the minister!]] I'm too high on crime too, but we haven't shot ourselves off – and you're always an opponent of shooting – and that's why we can't shoot off the criminals either. Mr deputies, leave the church in the village, and do not make Austria worse than it is!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7719	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7753	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! It is really a little difficult to follow Mrs Partik-Pablé's statement, because I do not believe that it is already possible to recognize crime or violence in the skin, Mrs Pablo. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The speech of “imported crime” is Humbug! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Look at the statistics!]] Crime will be done here in the country – whether by foreigners or foreigners! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Ask how the numbers of prisoners are!]] We have already had x-times the debate on drug offences, but, excuse me, I actually wanted to talk about the subject. I think it is necessary for you to take this debate on the implementation of an international agreement and also on the subject of the fence that Austria has held in this area in recent years, in order to talk about uncertainty on Vienna's streets. The Minister of the Interior is still responsible for this, but certainly not the UN, and certainly not another international authority, Mrs Pablo! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I don't even listen to you because you have a one-sided view!]] On the subject. I have nothing at all to blame the Minister for Justice in the actual Causa, which is being negotiated here, Mrs Pablo. On the contrary: It is one of the few points, Mr Böhmdorfer, where I believe that you have made your case very serious, even in the reply to parliamentary questions I made to you in this causa a year ago. The fact is, and you know that, Mr Federal Minister, in contrast to some of the Sunday's speeches in which only some other countries here would have been sparse. This is not your fault, but it was and still is due to the lack of sensitivity of the legislator himself in this area. You know, Minister of State, what I am talking about: It is still true that domestic parliamentarians are better placed in the field of corruption than other groups of persons. That was also the point, Mrs Partik-Pablé, that should You will be careful to see where you, as representative of a government party, should have beaten your foreign minister. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No, I'm not listening to you at all!]] It was the Foreign Minister who, in the previous year – even by chance, I have taken the “spiegel” – together with the Federal Republic of Germany, with which you have been more and more involved or competing, that has placed a reservation on the UN Convention against Corruption, with regard to the criminality of parliamentarians. Listen, listen, I thought, what's going on? All the others, not only Europeans, but all the countries of the world say: If we make a convention against corruption, of course Parliamentarians, like all other legal or political parties, must also be involved. – and Austria, together with the Federal Republic of Germany, makes a reservation. The difference between Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany was that, immediately after this had become a small public issue, the German Federal Government withdrew its reservation and needed a little longer for it. This fact that Austria did not want to withdraw this reservation so easily, I declare to myself, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Scheibner, you will certainly agree with me that, as we know from the debate last year, the sensitivity in Austria is still somewhat underdeveloped. While other countries, Mr. Federal Ministers, such as Switzerland and other European countries or the USA, are already under criminal threat to feed without a return, this crime is lacking in Austria. Not only do we agree to an international agreement here, but I would like to put it in your hands, because in this area I see from your side a certain sensitivity, Mr Federal Minister, that you as the responsible Federal Minister ensure that measures against corruption by political leaders, whether mandates, ministers, are concerned that Austria no longer remains sparse in this area, but now finally meets international standards here.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7845	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Kapeller. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7863	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! Global, internationally organised crime is a new form of combating which must pay particular attention to our fights. In order to be able to effectively combat criminal acts in the future, it is not always necessary for More money and officials, but above all also an adaptation of laws, and this is done with this ratification. Thus, terms are unified, internationalized. Now, the different states are the same among the different terms, and that is a good thing. As a border reference, which I look from Upper Austria to Lower Bavaria and to South Bohemia, I am glad to see such a uniforming of terms and such international cooperation, especially for a country which is so central between the old Europe of the 15 and the new of the 25. Due to this geographical and strategic situation, organised crime also plays a certain role in Austria. – So much for this ratification. But now to Mr Jarolim. The sad topic of criminal statistics has actually come to the playing ball of politics. The framework conditions have changed so much over the last five or six years, our time has become so fast and our world so global and so boundless. The crime situation has therefore changed considerably, without our commitment. Statistics from today and from 1999 are no longer comparable with each other because of these changed conditions and also because of changed statistics 1 : 1. And this should finally be noted by Mr Jarolim! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, for example, the trend change has been made in Vienna. The newly structured Kripo in Vienna with colleagues Horngacher works excellently: plus 0.73 percent education rate – for this urban area, excellent figures for this urban security situation! Finally, on the police reform of our Minister Strasser. Straster is doing what all the predecessors of your party have failed, namely, good work! The police in Bavaria – as a border representative in Upper Austria I know about this – are reforming just as we do: Bavaria is taking over the three-stage police structure, which is in force in Austria, and partly the reforms of our Ernst Strasser. International cooperation combined with national measures guarantees security for Austrians in the future, and so Austria remains the safest country in the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7914	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7933	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the Convention is the The United Nations is important and necessary, and we will also agree to ratification, but please allow me a few clarifications on the basis of a few words. If my previous speaker meant, Austria is the safest country: Yes, my dear colleague, but thanks to the first-class work and the commitment of Austrian executive officials – and not your policy! Just to make that clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann! It doesn't use anything, the numbers won't be better! And it also does nothing if we believe that only through a formal act will the problems be solved at the individual national levels. They're not! You will be more than insecure with your reform, which we have not mentioned, than you have put into play, and you will be taking future and career opportunities for many of your colleagues. You'll earn less. I am already excited about the discussion that will also be held in Bälde in your ranks. Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to point out, and I have often said this from this speaker's desk: The public officials and, above all, the Austrian executive officials must not become the ball of politics and must not always be just a means of saving, saving and saving! Internal security is not separate from justice. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us take a look at the situation in the Austrian execution of the sentence – it has already been addressed today! ==References== In May, Europe celebrated, ten new countries joined the European Union: 8 276 inmates in Austria's judicial institutions, alone in the Vienna-Josefstadt Justice Centre 1 216. – Minister! We know that there is more to this than need for action. I hope you will receive the necessary support from the Federal Government. I believe, in the interest of the public, but also in the interest of the inmates and the staff, in the interests of all, it is long overdue that we make some new adaptations, realize new buildings and, above all, receive additional staff. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jarolim has said that this is being smiled internationally, and two previous speakers have torn this out of the context. That's not what he claimed, but it's being smiled at internationally. I invite you to consider what internationally recognized experts have said in this regard. The criminal police service is increasingly specialized, and more and more people are trying to further develop this special training at international level, rather than bringing the various areas together into an executive body. Dear friends, just so much to this speech. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With cuts in security, with cuts in education, with cuts in the social field, we will not be able to solve all these important issues of citizens. One of the main reasons for the development of crime is the need, misery, unemployment, and I believe that we can also make a very important contribution here together: Let us invest in the future, in the interests of our children and children! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8002	Mr Böhmdorfer spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8020	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank you for your general commitment to combating terrorism in the form we have proposed and supported. It is a natural commitment, but it is, I believe, a good and right one to make it several times, especially on the occasion of such a discussion. This has been done in particular by Mrs Miedl and Mr Mainoni, of course the other speakers, but it has been rightly pointed out that this includes the fight against terrorist financing and other forms of crime such as towing, child abuse and drug trafficking. It's good to hear that we're on the right track here. That also motivates our officials. And I think this is important to you, too, that you have a good and motivated partner in the Ministry of Justice. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to begin by thanking Mr Jarolim for finding that the agreement is almost entirely implemented, but I must mention that the complaint of the reduction of limitation periods is not part of this debate because it is not a judicial issue. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I just wanted to express a dream of hope!]] I must say that the limitation periods in the Financial Penal Code are not shortened, and to shorten them in the BAO is by far not as evil as you have described it, but in itself no problem at all with an efficient device. I would like to expressly say this: In the field of justice, no limitation periods are reduced. As far as the criminality of legal persons is concerned, it should be noted that we are on the announced road, Mrs Stoisits. We are going to put this matter in plenary this year, we are in front of the review. But one must admit or conced one thing: This is a huge step for the Austrian economy. This is a step that Austrian science and the Austrian economy did not think possible for the Austrian criminal law sector a few years ago, and I therefore ask that it be considered and worked very carefully here. I am also grateful for the finding that the crime investigation rate is increasing in Austria. That is right, and we are of course pleased as a citizen and as a Member of Parliament, I assume, and of course it is also pleased with the level of government. However, one of the correctness needs to be added, and I would like to thank Mr Pendl for his clear words: It all has its price. The Minister of the Interior, of which I am very pleased personally and whatever I support, has got 1 180 planning points to achieve this improvement in the education rate. And I hear from Mrs Brinek today that another 80 Members will be available to him in the future. This is good, is necessary and is also justified by the fact that the education rate is improving. I must say, however, that we also need an increase in staff in the area of justice, especially in the case of criminal proceedings, and I am assuming, in particular, that, on the basis of Mrs Brinek's statement today, I hope that I will also receive support from the ÖVP's club that we will be supported in an adequate way, as is the case for the Minister of the Interior, in the area of justice. I think that's right and logical. [[Congratulations with the liberals, with representatives of the ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's where we stand!]] Mr Oellinger, it is indeed true that we cannot disappear from the fact that we are very likely to have an imported crime. We have stable 5 200 nationals in Austria, Austrian citizens in prison, and the increasing number mentioned by Mr Pendl, who is right, is based solely on foreign criminals. That is a fact. We also have the problem that we have this increasing number, especially in the U-port area, in the area of those in detention, because it has a logic that someone who does not reside in Austria is naturally also more exposed to the suspicion of the danger of escape than anyone who lives in the country. We must try to reduce U-port times. That is of course what we are trying to do. But, as a result, we have a very difficult, hardly to deal with. In the area of young people, we already have a 90 percent share of foreigners, Mr Oellinger – 90 percent of young people! – and in some other detention centres, i.e. in the area of detention, especially in Wiener Neustadt and, of course, in Vienna, an alien share in the investigative prisoners of also 90 percent. [[Abg. May. Posch: What do you conclude?]] I conclude that our particular concern has to be addressed in this area and that we must also draw attention to it in the EU area, because soon all those countries from which this crime comes will be members of the EU, not later than 2007 or 2008. In the area of the EU, we need to create a awareness of the problem that it cannot be achieved in an area of freedom, security and the right between Member States, each of the prisoners from the Member States. This will not happen in the future, and here too we are exercising awareness and awareness of the problem within the framework of the EU. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8103	I call Mr Puswald. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8164	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Scheuch's advance praise would be honorable, not the Minister of Justice here. It would therefore be inappropriate. – But back to the subject of this debate. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We are discussing a United Nations Convention on Transboundary Organised Crime. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Magic instructor!]] It has been said several times that all parties and, of course, the Social Democrats not only support this agreement, but also welcome it. There is therefore also a unanimous decision of the Committee on Justice. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Magic instructor!]] The colleague makes me nervous. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Go, there's no such thing as that!]] Yes, there is! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the ratification of this Convention, Austria is adopting global standards in the fight against organised crime – and this has already been said several times – in the definition of trafficking in human beings and towing and in international cooperation in the pursuit of these crimes. The Convention obliges States to adapt their legal rules in the fight against transnational criminal organisations. This is good and cannot be sufficiently supported. But at the same time we must see that we must not ignore a problem here, as it is in Guantanamo, for example, where the Americans – as in Iraq and Afghanistan – are acting beyond the limits of the rule of law. Whatever the situation in Iraq, Afghanistan and international terrorism may be, if it is to be combated and the conditions there are not desirable, one must also pay attention to and discuss it in particular in connection with such agreements, that such agreements should never lead to the fact that the States involved are outside of the rule of law and that the principles of the rule of law are not only respected, but are being followed by feet – in the truest sense of the word, as unfortunately the photos of the international press of the last days have confirmed impressively. In particular, such agreements, such as these and the debates on them, must also have the substance of the serious efforts of all the countries involved, such detours that call into question the rule of law and overcome it, to stop it emphatically and strongly, and to ensure the future that such events cannot be repeated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If, in return for such efforts with the present legislation, it is necessary to ensure that organised crime, which operates across borders in many countries, can be more effective, but this must not result in the recognition of police structures. Here in Austria, I see approaches, particularly in view of the work of the Minister of the Interior, which one must also recognize in good time and fight against at its root. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: With the dentist too!]] It is important – like the dentist – to feel on the tooth in good time, to recognize in good time the black gaps that might arise in the rule of law, and to propose in good time to the efforts of the Minister of Justice a barge which causes the citizen to become increasingly unwell in our democratic rule of law. [[Abg. Scheibner: But only when the criminals walk around freely!]] You too, Mr President, if you leave the hall now and do so with a devaluating hand movement, you too may recall that exactly what more and more citizens feel is not allowed to take place, even in the light of such a convention. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But only because...!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: In Carinthia, people are quite satisfied!]] We don't want a glass man, we don't want a surveillance state where every x-any politician and only a minister is quite pressing a button or taking a chip card to his hand, somewhere, and can quickly retrieve any data. Such tendencies should also be rejected in good time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make one last comment. I know that in this House, it is Usus that we pass laws in advance before ratifying the corresponding conventions, as is the case here. We have heard several times this day that the corresponding laws in Austria have already been passed. I mean, here again, one should maintain a certain rule of law, not pour out the child with the bath and in the future first ratify agreements and then approach the legislative works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8323	Mrs Stadlbauer is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8341	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would first of all like to refer to trade in women, a particularly cruel crime which has been taking on concern over the last few years. The trade in women includes both the sexual exploitation and exploitation of human labour under slavery-like conditions. One reason for the alarming increase is, among other things, the increasing poverty of women in the countries of the south and the east. The women are attracted by traffickers to secure their own existence and those of their families. International estimates suggest to be delayed Human trafficking rings over half a million women and children across international borders. Criminals Organizations deserve incredible sums with trafficking in women, the profit is higher in the meantime than in drug trafficking. The agreement, to which we all have our approval today, is very necessary and is to be welcomed. However, as important as the development of law enforcement and cooperation between individual countries in the field of justice is is, prevention and victim protection must in no way be disregarded. Protection of affected women and children must be the central concern for governments and those responsible. The focus for governments – regardless of whether in Austria, in the EU or outside – seems to be on combating crime, and the protection of victims is unfortunately only delayed. That's very bad, I think we should pay much more attention to it. It is particularly important to support the aid facilities involved in direct work with the victims of trafficking in women, such as LEFÖ in Vienna. Unfortunately, however, in the last few years, the victim protection institutions have been constantly confronted with cuts in their subsidies under the small blue-black coalition and are fighting financially and personnel for survival. Federal Minister Böhmdorfer does not tire of constantly disqualifying the work of these organizations, and builds up its own expensive parallel structures. The Minister for Women, whose voice I am again missing in this case, threatens either to do so or indeed greatly reduces the financial resources for women's projects and victim protection facilities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In Austria last year, according to BKA 169 ads on trafficking in women, these are more than twice as many as 2002. The dark number of cases that do not reach the display is much higher. The women “work” – under quotation marks – yes hidden in apartments or in back rooms of bars, they are guarded there, and the passports are taken away from them. It is therefore very difficult to find the victims. Policy cannot and cannot shut down on this issue, and the victims must be helped. About 30 women received a temporary residence last year. However, they will only receive it if they are ready immediately to testify as witnesses. However, there must also be a right of residence for those women who do not want to express themselves immediately as witnesses. Many affected women have had such traumatic experiences that they have to be cared for for for for a long time before. Often they are more willing to declare against their tormenters. There are also some positive examples within the EU – such as in Belgium, the Netherlands or Italy – of the fact that the women concerned are given a three-month period of thought and then have to decide. But until then they are protected – protected by the government! The vicious circle of violence, poverty and exploitation is diverse and complex. Nor can the problem be reduced to the fight against organised crime alone. Prevention and education are equally important and necessary to break through this cycle. The task of us here in Austria is to ensure that the people concerned receive support and protection from trafficking in women, from trafficking in human beings. Women's trafficking must not be criminalised. This vicious vicious circle of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in women must be broken! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8399	Mr Wittmann came to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8419	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This Convention on the fight against organised crime is, of course, unconditional to support. I think it is in itself a step of the international community in the right direction to promote cross-border cooperation in order to finally fight cross-border crime. It is certainly important that such agreements be signed, and of course more important are the national laws which have already been preceded here. I believe that it is all right to standardize these terms internationally and to bring them to an international standard because of the difference between dealing with the problems of trafficking in human beings and towling, about which one communicates and on which one eventually deals. Nevertheless, the most important question is not solved. It can't be that the number of police members is going down, that they can save officials and realize savings potential there, that there are fewer and fewer police officers, that one guard room after another is closed, that then crime increases, and yet they do, as if everything were all right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When I close the guard room and when I lower the number of police, it makes sense that crime has to rise very easily. I can talk about everything, but it's not true! If the Minister of the Interior is constantly trying to speak this up, it will not be better: Crime is increasing, and there is a failure of the Minister of the Interior! [[Abg. That's not true! Crime...!]] It increases crime, and it decreases the rate of education. This is perfectly logical with the decline of the number of police officers and with the closing of the watchrooms! Mr Mainoni! I'll give you perfect Right: There are too many bank robberies in Vienna. I also believe that the new Vice-President is obviously overwhelmed with her task. It does not have the experience that the former officials had, nor does it have the same number of officials, so it is quite simply overwhelmed in this situation. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:...not the police president!]] This is shown with the increasing rate of crime and with the dwindling rate of Enlightenment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We only need to be careful not to throw the child with the bath in the fight against international organised crime, but also international terrorism. It must not be assumed that, under the guise of combating terrorism, the rule of law and the rule of law which holds democracy together are being abolished or strongly pushed into the background. I think it would also be good to make a position in the Committee on Justice on how our Parliament puts our society in the process in Guantanamo. This is the first step of a democratic country to remove the rule of law, to remove human rights and ultimately to remove the democratic brackets. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: And then what should we do?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What should Austria do? Should we get the Americans...?]] The clause of democracy is the rule of law! I am not worthy of the rule of law, democracy is nothing more, because then the arbitrariness takes place! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, in such a discussion, it should be considered whether some of our regulations are also beyond the objective and thus limit human rights, but also democratic rights, to such a extent that the rule of law is no longer guaranteed. In the course of such a discussion on international crime, but also on international terrorism, it would be quite appropriate to give itself a clear line here, to give itself clear parameters or limit parameters beyond which one should not go. I think that would be a good reason. But, basically, nothing is wrong with this agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8523	In the word, no one has been reported for this. That concludes this debate. We come to the vote, first of all we are voting on the request from the Committee on Justice to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 424 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign of approval. – I note that approval is unanimous. I shall now vote on the request of the Committee on Justice for the present State Treaty within the meaning of Article 50(1). 2 B-VG is to be fulfilled by passing laws. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – The National Council shall also act unanimously. ==References== The item on the agenda is done with this. I was asked why the urgent request was not called at 3 p.m. I think it's already been said: This comes at 4:15 a.m. because it was not introduced until 13:15 p.m. 3rd. Point Report of the National Defence Committee on the Government Template (133 d.a._Other Organiser Agreement on the interpretation of Art. 12 para. 2 of the Convention on the Reduction of the Cases of Multiple Citizenship and on Military Service in Cases of Multiple Nationality (458 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8581	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There is no need for reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. The watch is gladly set to 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8605	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a subject that may have less brilliance than the previous point in itself, but is nevertheless also a consensus matter and is under the very complex term: Agreement on the interpretation of Art. 12 para. 2 of the Convention on the Reduction of the Cases of Multiple Citizenship and of Military Service in cases of multiple nationality. I am the first speaker allowed to address a few points in accordance with the dignity of this State Treaty. This state agreement was concluded in 1963, and Austria ratified it in 1975. Finally, a corresponding note of the Council of Europe and the fact that an agreement on multi-state membership was concluded in 1997 have led to interpretation problems. Some Contracting States have declared that they are no longer bound by Chapters I and II in the context of multi-state membership problems, because national legislation is in principle no longer in line with them. In principle, however, the States have also expressed their concern that the Convention on Military Obligations should be maintained in the event of multiple nationality. There is a fundamental consensus that the agreement at least ensures that in the case of double-citizenship, only one military service is to be performed. The possibility of partial termination of this State Treaty is not given, so that in principle this Convention needs to be concluded once and at least to be ratified by Parliament. In principle, the Federal Government has known to the Council of Europe that Chapter I can be left out. In the end, however, the Federal Government continues to insist that both chapters of the Convention still apply accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, of course, this agreement is also a basis for our citizenship law, which is not a question. In citizenship law, the Convention has been implemented accordingly. Finally, our citizenship is well-founded in the legal system, so that it does not need to change the Convention in principle. The whole is a matter of form, a consensus on which we have unanimously known ourselves in the Committee across all parties. However, you have to be quite clear about this, only the obligation to do so, although the Committee – and the subsequent speakers of the opposition will certainly still be speaking – has also been discussed the question of the reception opportunities of women, the performance parameters, the remuneration and, of course, the constantly emerging issue of airspace surveillance aircraft. I particularly liked the question of the future image of our soldiers in public, as it is a matter of military duty. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, what our Federal Minister has also said to us is that it is necessary for one to rely on Empire that one can support and evaluate the whole scientifically. If changes are necessary, and I am going to be in full conformity with the Federal Minister, one will choose clear ways of doing so. That is, I think, also the credo for the future, and I am grateful for this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8651	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. - Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8690	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We will agree to the Convention or the Government Template on Military Service and Multiple Citizenship. There is a request from the Member States of the Council of Europe to enable multiple citizenship in the future and to recognise the military service already provided elsewhere. There is no objection, however, that is not disputed. And just four days after the historic date that has often been tried today, the day of EU enlargement, this double citizenship, this multiple citizenship, is important. It's kind of a symbol character. 25 states in Europe are seeking a peace project. We Socialists stand unabated on the fundamental objectives of the EU, but you, Federal Minister, are in danger of moving in the wrong direction with the policy of this federal government and in particular with security policy. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We from the SPÖ are in favour of a peace union. We are in the process of building this peace union, the European security and defence policy, and you are in the process of acquiring sintering fighters. Unfortunately, we in the Committee had no opportunity to deal with the request we have made, because this is always delayed with the most reasonable reasons. You from ÖVP and FPÖ buy these fighter planes without presenting a financing concept, Mr. Federal Minister, because they are simply not eligible for funding. We do not need them in terms of security policy, nor are they necessary for reasons of state sovereignty. You're only partly responsible for this if I can say so. This is a procurement, which was mainly carried out by Chancellor Schüssel, but also by Minister of Finance Grasser and Minister Bartenstein, but ultimately you bear the responsibility, because in the end you signed the purchase contract. Federal Minister! You know that during the ongoing procedure, essential tendering criteria have been changed, which is unique worldwide. Must requirements, which is also unusual, have been converted into target requirements. The Court of Auditors - and we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss this in detail here in plenary session - and the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Fierce, has given the SPÖ critique full scope.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8739	Mr Gaál, you are not the first person to keep to the agenda exactly, but you will now be back to the agenda in half a minute.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8754	Of course, Mr President. - Just one more sentence: It has been decided against by EADS and at the expense of the Republic of Austria and the Austrian population. And that is why it is too little if you facilitate multi-citizenship here, while you spend money on the other hand, so that there is no money left for sensible, necessary procurement, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Toni, don't worry!]] It is ultimately a matter of trust and credibility for multiple citizenship as well as military service signs. However, you are in the process of committing the last remaining credibility with your policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8806	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8824	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda – the previous speakers have already mentioned it – is about the Convention on the Reduction of the Cases of Multiple Citizenship and on Military Service Obligations in cases of multiple nationality. The point is to terminate Chapter I of this Convention. We have decided unanimously in committee. I thank you for this, and I only allow myself to speak briefly about the words of my predecessor Anton Gaálein. Mr Gaál, the European security policy, as it is operated by this Federal Government, is a responsible and target-oriented one! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In essence, this federal government is continuing on this question, which has so far been national consensus. We have argued clearly and clearly in the Committee that the delay in your request for a stop to the procurement of the interceptors is. The Court of Auditors is currently preparing the third report on this subject, and we will wait for this report and then decide on it again. In addition, you have referred to the fact that the Court of Auditors' report, the second report, has already been intensively discussed, and there, I have to say, Mr Gaál, I must say, has shown that in the most essential guidelines – I do not say now, in the details about which one can argue – the Federal Government has acted correctly in the procurement of the interceptors.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8874	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8892	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If my colleague Toni Gaál had not gratefully spoken on a completely different subject, no one would know what we should discuss. The speaker of the Austrian People's Party has rightly stated that this is a purely formal occasion, which we naturally approved in the Committee. Nevertheless, one member of the government goes to the speaker's desk after another to give a speech. For what? For what, my Ladies and gentlemen, especially the ÖVP, are you wasting the time of this House? What are you playing democracy for, where it is not about democracy, but simply about something that is not discussed, but only about the protocol? Why do you not allow more democracy where the House would need more democracy, such as the right to set up committees of inquiry, to strengthen minority rights, to increase transparency, to other ways of understanding files, to conduct lively and public debates in a completely different way? Why is it enough for you, as a Member of this House, to go out on formal occasions and talk about it? I would like to see a very different parliamentaryism, one where we are really fighting with a view to success over interception hunters, and where – this is an important question – this National Council also receives a minority right to examine whether the buying of a catch-up hunter has not been pushed. But not to reject and prevent the one thing about democracy and then to hold debates of this kind! Of course, we agree with this proposal – no, it is a formal occasion. I would ask you to consider whether it would be good for all of us not to have this Parliament in a formal parliament in the interests of government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8928	The next speaker is Mr Rädler. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8947	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Taking into account the comments made by my predecessor, I believe that: We also wish to see another form of parliamentarism, namely a parliamentarism, where it is not always referred to as a "screw" which is to be heard from the mouth of Mr Pilz, but where the real issues of this Republic are addressed. And if you're talking about the speaking time being wasted here, I have to stop it: If If you have let go of your hatreds against the Minister of Finance in various debates, then the waste time has been spent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Gradwell: What does this mean by “hestirates ”?]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: They weren't haters!]] But before the President calls me on the matter, I may get to the point. The agenda today contains the agreement on the interpretation of Article 12(1). 2 of the Convention on the Reduction of the Cases of Multiple Citizenship and of Military Service in cases of multiple nationality. I believe that with this decision today, four days after we celebrated the accession of ten new countries to the EU, we are opening a doorway to the Member States of Europe. We are actually taking account of national legislation in the EU countries with this legislative decision, and that is important. This is important in the context of EU enlargement and a democratic model. This is particularly important for us Lower Austrians, as we have also achieved a positive performance in the course of EU enlargement. Lower Austria is geopolitically driven from the Iron Curtain into the heart of Europe and certainly has great tasks ahead. We need a safe environment. Today, in the security debate, several references have been made to the achievements of our federal army to secure the Schengen border. The security of the Schengen border with 1 460 kilometres must continue to be maintained. But that's where we need Europe's assistance. We need common European funding for these border protection measures. We are prepared and politically involved in building up these new security structures. I would like to address a few of the points raised by Mr Wittmann and Mr Gaál in this debate. Mr Wittmann always believes that clear parameters are the political requirements that we need in this House, and has criticised the Federal Minister for Internal Security in connection with the structures of the Gendarmerie. He was that member or mayor in my constituency, who, with his personal friend, Mr. Karl Schlögl, watched as a third of the Gendarmerie Posts were locked in the district of Wiener Neustadt. At the time, he advocated this and strongly defended it with the argument of necessary structural measures. I would like to mention the statements made by Mr Gaál in the National Defence Committee, who is still in my memory as a vehement supporter of the interception hunters under the government of his time and who is today thinking about the procurement. I remembered the procurement procedures of the time, where a very well-known colleague from my constituency, Mr Marizzi, had some problems, but it seems that all of this has been forgotten. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Who has gotten trouble there?]] – I can imagine who she had, Mr Marizzi. I'm just remembering the hearings in this house. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Who has problems with that? He's sitting back in the house today, anyway!]] That he's still sitting here today, that's other reasons, that's your internal matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But back to the federal army. It is also appropriate to say thank you, once again, for the solidarity that our Federal Government has done in the face of the European challenges in the context of peacekeeping over the last 40 years. It was 50,000 soldiers who carried out their tasks in the peacekeeping operations that carried out the image of Austria outside. Every soldier stationed in a crisis centre is an ambassador of peace for our country and for our home country Austria. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] If, in June of this year, the Federal Force Reform Commission will present its results, this is another important step, where I hope we will find unanimity in this House to bring forward these European structures in defence policy, because we are called upon to think together and build an EU-fit federal army for the next years that will fulfil the tasks at European level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In conclusion, I should like to refer to an article of today's press, because Mr National Council One – unfortunately, he is not here now – has meant to the German Chancellor in connection with the European reunification that what the Federal Government is doing here is abstract painting. I think that was certainly not appropriate in this context on this historic day today. I stay here with Andreas Schwarz’s comment in today’s “Kurier”, who writes: The opposition, which lives in luxury and has no political responsibility, dreams of social standards in the Constitution. That's the situation, that's the situation. Speaking of dyeing, as I say, it has not been appropriate on this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9047	Mr Kummerer has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9066	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Rädler, you will not be objective, I cannot help you by making your subjective perceptions known here again and again. Mr Pilz, why should we use the occasion of this formal act? – We experience it here in plenary, we experience it in committee: We are no longer going to discuss the national defence in this House elsewhere than at such agenda items. Very often, there is the refusal of the discussion in the form of a delay – we do not talk about it – to Terminisation of the Committee. There has been no more recent debates for a very long time. What we hear is silence. And that's why we're going to use these occasions. But, Mr President, I would like to mention that I am very much referring to the agreement. This Convention shall be effected directly by the consignee, who may or may not be. That is why I am also speaking about what these conscripts expect or do not expect. Mr Bösch spoke of "target-oriented" that the policy of these coalition parties was targeted. – She hasn't been, Mr. Deputies, for a long time. Insurance is on the agenda, hemorrhaging. I recall the HG-Neu, the HG-Neu-Neu, the HG-Neu-Neu-Neu, the REORG 2002, which was celebrated as the great litter. What happened to it, Mr Murauer? – The great outcast of 55-year-olds of soldiers who were 60 years old who were no longer allowed to prove themselves! [[Abg. Scheibner: Be careful!]] Col. Scheibner was not even at the door of the ministry outside, was directed to him, a new reorganisation must come here. [[Abg. Murauer: Get out with your alternatives!]] So it can't have been that important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have already put forward proposals in the face of a changed threat. There are changed requirements, you need another equipment, another training. Mr. Murauer, can you remember? We proposed 60 000 soldiers on the occasion of the REORG. But what did Mr Murauer mean on this proposal? – The SPÖ wants to destroy the army. [[Abg. Scheibner: Don't even listen to the Toni!]] A whore! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's right!]] Halation on 60,000 soldiers! Mr Minister, is it right that I have heard, you imagine reducing the army to 60,000 soldiers? – Then I ask: How does this fit together within two years? Targeted, colleague Bösch. [[Abg. Scheibner: Of course!]] Target-oriented. Hey, tomorrow hot. Something's going to come out of this hemorrhage. What's going on? – A procurement system that always takes note of the most expensive calls for tender, which spends most of the money that the Austrian army does not have. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this Commission on Reform will lead you back and bring you back to the stage. Austria has more than it needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9175	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9193	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When Mr Pilz went out and said that was a consensual matter, one did not need to talk about it, we were wasting time, he had, I must say, half right. Consensus is right – one could probably say less about it – but not waste time. I believe that it is a necessity for every political representative sitting in here to speak of waste of time when we are talking about national defence, because national defence, Mr Pilz, this issue cannot be a waste of time in the House. [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] It's clear once. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The only thing that I too, as a Member of this House, have thought very often, is really about waste of time, which is once again, once again, when there is a permanent and eternal discussion of homepage affairs about Eurofighter. You could really talk about wasting time, you could really discuss that. You should go out from your green maid to the people and ask what they think about it, that if they look into this High House via media, they are constantly hearing only those dirty dome campaigns that no one can hear anymore. I would like to say that at this point. That's really cute, that's really wasting time! Defence policy cannot be a waste of time, and therefore I too will use this item on the agenda to pass on a small suggestion to the Minister, who may not really have to deal with the consensus to be reached, but which, I believe, is very important. It is about many small and medium-sized companies that are concerned that they will be thrown out of the race in the course of the procurement law at the barracks. There are innumerable barracks, small locations that are actually life veins for small and medium-sized farms, but above all – that is important to me as a farmer’s representative – of course also for farmers and their agricultural products. It is very often heard from these companies that new procurement laws mean that there can be problems with large calls for tenders that smaller businesses can no longer get to the train here. I think that we should become an initiative. We will certainly have to look at one of the next committee meetings to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises can continue to move and large businesses are preferred, because small businesses cannot be able to supply Austrian barracks, such as perhaps ADEG, AGM or other markets. I think that's a very important thing. Finally, Mr Kummerer, who spoke about it, hears silence. I find it fascinating to hear silence anyway. Mr Colleague, how you can hear silence, you have to explain that to me once. That's a fascinating statement. You have to break that on your tongue. You should talk about it once. You have said that the defence policy – I have written it down – is uncertainty. I'll give you the right. At present, there is really a lot of defence policy uncertainty, but not because of the work of the government, but because of the work of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9242	As the next speaker, Mrs Pepper is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9260	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Convention on the Reduction of the Cases of multiple nationality also concern women. As you know, there has been the possibility for women to take up the soldier's profession since 1998. This project has so far been successful, since more than 200 women have already taken this career path. The SPÖ also repeatedly called on women who expressed their professional desire to take up the military career to fulfil this wish. The opening of military services for women has also led to major discussions. In order to be able to take a picture of ourselves, the politicians of all political groups became on 26 May. On August 3, 2003, on the occasion of the day of the politician, we invited to the German army in Linz-Ebelsberg, and we were able to convince ourselves of the women's duties in the army. Apart from being invited very short-term, too late and during the holiday period, I took time with my employee to be there. Impressive was the beginning of the flight with a Black Hawk helicopter to Linz-Ebelsberg. Seeing at 500 meters altitude how beautiful our country is from the bird’s perspective – we flew over Vienna, Lower Austria and Upper Austria – was an uplifting feeling in the truest sense of the word. Arrived in Linz, we had the opportunity to have a conversation with the women who were just testing their sporting skills, and of course the type of performance test that still dates back to a time when the physical discipline of the federal army was still dwindling, was a subject. The Gender-Mainstreaming Unit, Major Doctor Dr. Eva Krainz, was also impressive. Dr. Krainz said military services put high demands on the mental and physical health of men and women and demand a high-level physical condition. Ms. Dr. Krainz also told us that the average body weight of the woman and her lung volume is smaller compared to the man. Similarly, the blood volume for the supply of energy is significantly lower. This fact, in turn, is closely linked to the also lower heart capacity. All together, of course, the performance reserve of women has a decisive influence. It is also interesting to mention that there are differences in the muscles, the basis for our ability to move. While women consist of 24 percent musculature, men enjoy 42 percent. It follows that the performance of women is about a quarter below that of men. But that also means that women must be significantly fitter than men to run the same distance at the same time. In this respect, however, thoughts have already been made and a lot has been made easier for women. Of course, the low salary of women in the training service during the first six months, i.e. 245,70 €, was also a topic. This has a counterproductive impact on voluntaryness. Maturants do a little easier in their decisions. But the federal army should be open to all women who are interested. However, the low salary also means that women prefer to go to the gendarmerie and to the justice because the salary is higher there. Here, Minister of State, you have to think about something. The man is a professional soldier from the seventh month, the woman is a professional soldier from the first month. There must therefore be a change in the sense of equal treatment. Otherwise, I was able to gain a good, positive impression, and I think, Federal Minister, that the problems raised are certainly a solution. It will be the
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9323	The next speaker was Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9342	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the last meeting of the National Defence Committee, there was a rather lively but, like me, open discussion. This could have given rise again to the fact that in the case of state defense opposition and government find a common way. The present proposal for a law is such an instrument in which we have been able to find common ground, which is why we also support it. We have also heard some discussions during this debate. We know that the present agreement has also signed Germany. On this occasion we were able to discuss the interception hunters with our German neighbours again. I can say that the interception hunters, as can be read in the media now, cost the Germans almost half of what they cost us. That's to be questioned again. In addition, Mr Federal Minister, it is strange to me that we also have to look at the other fact that you, as I believe, should have already been aware of the Committee at the time of its establishment, namely that the F 5 is currently in Switzerland and cannot come to Austria under various agreements with the USA and security measures. I would really ask you to tell us what it really means now, if the 1st or the 15th. ==References== July will be the day when the Austrian Air Force will again be able to protect the European airspace, as you always want to say, alone, or whether we have to wait a little longer. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should take every opportunity to reach consensus in terms of national defence. But it is necessary to discuss each other equally. It is also necessary for the opposition to be taken seriously and the concerns of the opposition not to be presented from the outset as a heart tactics or refusal and to give us the feeling that we do not want to be taken seriously in the defence of the country. I would strongly reject that. In any case, we Socialists are in favour of national defence and, if the government so wishes, could also contribute accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9382	The next speaker was Mrs Schasching. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9400	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said on several occasions, the recognition of multi-national citizenship, as proposed by the Council of Europe and presented to us, is a matter of course. We shall therefore vote in favour of this request. Logically, the mutual recognition of the military service is also a consequence of this action, and here too we will give our consent to this request. However, I would like to take a very brief look at the mood in the National Defence Committee. As in many committees, it is also the case there that requests from the Federal Government, which are very likely to be negotiated and to hold talks with us, are on the agenda and are decided, but whereas opposition requests are postponed, postponed, postponed until Sankt Nimmerleinstag. Especially with regard to the SPÖ's request concerning the better and fairer chances of women being admitted to the Austrian Federal Army and with regard to the better remuneration in the first six months, I find this, ladies and gentlemen, extremely unfortunate. We have carried this out intensively, and I would just like to point out one thing: The physical prerequisites of women, who make themselves available to the Austrian federal army as soldiers and want to perceive their career opportunities there, are simply a quarter lower than those of their male colleagues. We know this from other sporting activities, we know this from the performance sports. Overall, this physical inequality is well taken into account, and I think, Federal Minister, it is very high time that the admission criteria were reviewed and the medical reception tests were also submitted to a corresponding “reciprocal”. Another part of our request relates to the uneven provision of opportunity in the area of remuneration, and here too we demand the monthly wage of € 725.90 net, as the male time soldiers receive it at the end of the seventh month. But there is something for which I would really like to thank you, Minister of Defence, and I would like you to be able to understand my thanks accordingly. I have a request with my colleague Anton Heinzl from the district of St. Pölten It was directed because we were somewhat irritated that the military music chapel Lower Austria played for private-party political purposes of an ÖVP city council in St. Pölten, the well-known Lutz managing director. I do not thank you for the answer to the question – which is a very general one – but I thank you very much, Minister of State, for pointing out in a decree that military music is logically not to be used and used for party policy purposes. I am grateful as Lower Austrian Members for this because we already had the impression that military music, especially the Lower Austrian, could perhaps come to the private chapel of the ÖVP Lower Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: Does this apply to Vienna, too, Mrs. Colleague?]] We do not want that and therefore thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9440	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the request of the National Defence Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 133 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is unanimously adopted. I am now interrupting the negotiations so that the urgent question requested can begin at 4:15 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Nürnberger, colleagues and colleagues at the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour on the responsibility of the Federal Government for record unemployment in Austria and the lack of employment policy (1688/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9482	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 1688/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9629	I give the floor to Mr Deputies. Nürnberger as the first questioner for the reasons of the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9647	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We do not criticise today Your wrong labour market policy, we criticise you for not running an active labour market policy at all. Nevertheless, you regularly rejoice at how great Austria is compared with other countries. I can only say: A young person who has not been a teacher for months, a woman who is no longer able to get back into work after the child break, an older worker who does not feel needed anymore, who do not want to hear comparisons from you who want to hear from your government how you can help them in concrete terms. And here you do nothing, absolutely nothing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] The current figures available are dramatic, and they show that every age group, every industry and any type of qualification is affected by your inactivity, Mr Minister. In April 2004, there were more than 240 000 people who were unemployed, 4.1 percent more than in the previous year, and in addition, almost 48 000 people are in training measures – fairly they have to be counted – then we are in more than 280 000 – almost 38 000 young people up to 25 years of age are looking for jobs, a plus of 2.4 percent, 5 500 young people are in training and therefore also without jobs. Women are 7 424 or 7.3 percent more in April 2004, almost 46 000 more unemployed in older workers, and between 25 and 45 years of age, unemployment increased by more than 12,000 people. What makes me particularly concerned: In 2003, some 774,000 people were already affected by unemployment sometime during the year, and the forecasts show that we will exceed the 800 000 margin this year. In other words, every third employee in the private sector must expect to become unemployed once a year. It may be true that perhaps one person or another is quite happy if he does not have to go to work, but I tell you that almost all of those around 800 000 people who are once affected would like to work, because it is not as it is, as the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Salzburg, for example, want to make clear to us: They're just tachinians who don't want to work. These people, if they had a job, would very much like to go to work, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Fact is – and that is not to be denied –: Unemployment is the cause of impoverishment number one. A look at the state's social assistance statistics confirms the increasing failure of the social security network in the event of unemployment by unemployment insurance. Single parents, multiple children's families and young people are particularly affected. The reason is insufficient financial security from unemployment insurance. And I'll tell you, People who want to work, people who are willing to do something, people who want to earn their living don't deserve to be downgraded to social assistance recipients by your missing, non-existent economic policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since I have said that multiple families are affected, you will allow me, although there will only be wide room for discussion tomorrow, a short trip to the tax reform: This tax reform, as you will present it and how it will be discussed tomorrow, is the next step in the poverty trap. It is, above all, socially unfair: Some 800,000 children will have nothing of your tax reform at all because they live in families in which both parents have to go to work, because their common income is only half enough for them to be able to fight their livelihood. There would be a very simple solution if you really want to help children-rich families and don't want to go the way that only those who deserve a lot and can afford to stay at home, like some or most of those who are present here – I don't take it from it at all. I'm enjoying the fact that you have to decide something like that! If you really want to help, then do not increase the single payment allowance, but the family allowance, because then all children are helped, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] Mr Bartenstein, you are regularly looking forward to increasing numbers of jobs for women. But what you're not saying: More and more women work part-time, and very often they are precarious, unsafe working conditions, which do not offer any income on which one can live, and make women financially dependent on their partners. To the figures: The growth in women's employment in recent years is mainly due to part-time employment and low employment. ==References== April this year 572 211 women work part-time, which is 35.7 percent of all working women! In contrast, only 95 000 men work part - time, which is 4.6 percent. The number of McJobs in women in the context of minor employment is at a record level in March 2004: 160 000 women compared to 65 000 men! Unfortunately, we must note and note: Women are the main victims of this policy. Three Members of my group will be dealing with this problem separately. In principle, I would like to say something about this. The women feel this in their own bodies, for example in the case of child benefit and when the family is installed in the protection of termination. But women want both: They want family and profession! However, this government is working exactly in the opposite direction. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] The majority of women, however, cannot afford a wife, Mrs Colleague, to reconcile work and family! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] If these women then set a sign and, for example, do not choose the ÖVP candidate in the Federal presidential election, they must be defied as “left emanzen”! I can only tell you: These women have decided absolutely correctly! You have made the right choice and given a clear rejection to this anti-social and anti-female policy! I'm proud of you, ladies! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call of the abg. Steibl.]] Mr Bartenstein! ==References====External links== On 3 March 2004 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, "No youth is supposed to be on the street. The training of our young people is an essential economic location factor and is therefore especially dear to me." Where are your efforts for the youth of the country? – Currently 13 500 young people are looking for apprenticeships. A total of almost 38 000 young people up to 25 years of age are unemployed. I cannot see a great deal of effort at the best, and only from your announcement policy do young people not get a job, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another fact that should not and should not be ignored when talking about unemployment is the cost of this unemployment, Mr Federal Minister. Its policy not only causes tragic individual skills of people who then have financial problems, but it deliberately causes great burdens for the budget. In 2003, unemployment cost public hands € 6.1 billion, €3.5 billion less revenue from taxes and taxes and € 2.6 billion expenditure on unemployment insurance and emergency aid. The unemployed had a total income loss of €2.3 billion. At the same time, a study of the “Economie Leaf” of 23 March 2000 shows that the “Economie Sheet” was in place. April of this year, that in 2003 company profits increased by 24 percent and the chief salaries increased by 14 percent. That's probably what you're talking about, Minister of State. Yesterday, too, there was a discussion and statements by Mr Raidl, who always advises the Chancellor, and Mr Hochleitner, Director General, that, in view of these figures and profit explosions, they would like to see working hours raised to 40 to 42 hours in our country without compensation. That's where I ask, Minister of State: Where is your call for such a call? I think you will be right in view of the dramatic unemployment rate, that it is certainly the wrong way to leave people in employment even longer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] I'll tell you: As a trade unionist, we have been in the past and are ready to negotiate in the future. When it comes to securing the economic location more through flexibilisation measures and similar measures, we are ready to talk, we have proved that. But I'm saying there can't be a one-way street. There must also be advantages for all, for employers and employees. But I assure you: With regard to an increase in working time, whether without or with wage compensation, we are not ready to talk, because that is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The dramatic developments you hope not to disapprove of, Mr Minister, have all been known to you. But what are you doing? – I will now give you a few examples of your activity. Today we can read in the newspapers about your quota regulation for the seasonal eggs for the summer of 2004. This was adopted last Thursday. There have then been accusations or criticisms by the relevant trade union. - I'll tell you: You don't need to give me legal instruction! I know you can do that alone. I just want to point out what policy you are doing. It is true that there has been an agreement with some national councils, but there has not been any such agreement everywhere. For example, there was no such thing as this in the Federal Republic of Carinthia, and my knowledge – I could no longer verify it to 100 percent, but it should be true – was in Carinthia even head of state Haider against this agreement. For Friday, the Federal Committee was scheduled to discuss this. However, you have already adopted the regulation on Thursday alone. You were certainly entitled to do so by law. But if you are always interested in the social partners and want to involve us in all possible questions, I ask you: Why didn't you wait 24 hours? Then you could have heard the arguments of the employee representatives and perhaps also of the head of state of Carinthia, and then perhaps we could have found a solution together! So you've decided the ruck, corner alone, according to the motto: I'm me, I can decide how I want to! With this in mind, I ask myself, Minister of State: Wouldn't it be your damn duty and guilt and task, given that 45 000 people in the tourism sector are unemployed, that you are going to get to the bottom of the problem and look at and analyze why there are 45 000 unemployed people in the tourism sector?– You might have thought that if you take appropriate measures and implement training measures, you don't need seasonal kidneys at all! However, you did not go this way, Mr Federal Minister, and I cannot spare you the accusation that the social partners have not been heard in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another example: There is a press release by Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel after yesterday's Council of Ministers. It's a bit of a funny press release at all. According to this issue, he says that the employment figures are 13 800 higher, but he does not say how, when and why. Of course, we've analyzed this. Of course, the figures from March to April are 13 800 higher! Please be glad it is! The good weather is there, and the increase is naturally to be sought in the construction industry. – But what is the real situation? If you compare the number of employees on the same day, April 2003 to April 2004, according to the two original issues of the main association, you will expect us to have 3,166 345 million employees in 2003 and 3,165 411 million people this year. I have calculated the difference on the paper and the calculator, and this is according to Adam Riese minus 934, Mr Federal Minister! Thus, compared to the previous year – and this comparison is correct – we have a decrease in the number of employees by 934. I already know that you will now tell us statistically that you have created a new system and that the difference is due to it. The Federal Chancellor also said that at least it was necessary to be very careful to do the right thing in economic terms. According to the press, you, Federal Minister Bartenstein, said – and I assume that if you were interviewed, you would have read the relevant edition of the press and could have corrected it – and I quote you literally: "But it is not possible to discuss the fact that unemployment increases by two to three percent per year." That's what the Minister said! And now the inconceivable comes, because you say literally: “Without the return of economic growth to Austria, the trend will not be reversed.” What Do You Believe You, Mr. Federal Minister? You confirm in your own words what I said at the outset: You're not doing anything! You're not doing anything! They sit there waiting for economic growth to return to Austria. They do not at all come to the idea that an active labour market policy can be pursued and measures put in place to stimulate economic growth. They apparently believe that economic growth has been sent on vacation and comes back sometime! That's your own statement, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Federal Minister, at last you are creating a law concerning a determined approach against organized illegal black entrepreneurs, and please do not come to me with the little house builder! This also means revenue from taxes and taxes which you have been knowingly abandoning up to now! Exploring potential She's with her colleague, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! I call you only a single number, determined in the course of the special review of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse: In Vienna alone, Black Entrepreneurship causes a delay of €160 million annually. If the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse had this amount – these are contributions that have already been deducted and not passed on by the employees – then we would have no problem there, ladies and gentlemen, very much! In this sense, you could have a bit of an influence on your employer colleagues that they pay neatly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Invest in the skills of workers in the form of more money for the labour market service and for the vocational training of the unemployed! Finally start an investment offensive in the infrastructure of 1 billion €! This would certainly create around 30 000 jobs and would have positive effects. Do you accept your promises to the youth rather than contribute to reducing, as with the ÖBB, almost 1,000 teaching places in the next few years! Why Look You're going to do it? Why don't you talk to the responsible vice chancellor to prevent 1 000 teaching posts from being reduced at the ÖBB? That's where you could earn laurels, Minister of State! [[New condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Greens.]] Create You have enough kindergartens, and reintroduce the kindergarten billions again! Only in this way can family and professional life be agreed. And make a tax reform that really creates work! Mr Federal Minister, you have the duty to increase people's chances of employment. Just waiting for an economic improvement – I say in all clarity – is extremely negligent and endangers the entire economic location. Let me conclude by quoting Mr Göweil from the “Kurier” – certainly not a newspaper that can be said to be close to us or to the union – who writes today: "The government's reactions to the catastrophic labour market data from April are revealing. The Federal Chancellor said that, unfortunately, it was not possible to speak of a discharge on the labour market, an suppression of the special class." This article also refers to child benefit, and it concludes that: “All this generates costs, for social networks alone EUR 2.6 billion. This increases the budget deficit and decreases the country's prosperity. And that is probably also – to remain in the chancellor’s linguistic image – ‘no real discharge’. More clearly, such a policy can be described as cynical.” Such cynicism, ladies and gentlemen of the government, did not deserve people in our country! And I am glad that people do not like this cynicism that they have presented the corresponding account to you in all the elections in recent months. You have presented the invoice to you, for example at the workers' chamber elections in Vorarlberg and Upper Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walch.]] Mr Walch, there was a drop from 11 to 5 percent, and that is why my wish has been fulfilled: You're still board of chambers, so it's for entertainment in the Upper Austrian Chamber. And in Carinthia there was the best result for my group. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖAAB! You only have a problem in the Chamber today, to see that the FPÖ does not overtake you! And if we get the results of the elections from Lower Austria, you have a problem: Then Dirnberger – as has already been said: “the seventh dwarf from the left” – will be stronger than the ÖAAB! And I'm not afraid of Vienna at all! In addition, I am not afraid that You will receive the full federal political account of the EU elections! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9801	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Bartenstein. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9819	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Fraglos is anything but satisfactory if the number of unemployed in this country increases by 4.1 percent in the annual period. – As long as the unemployment rate is not down, I can and will not be satisfied. To do here as if the whole had nothing to do with growth may fit into the polemics of an AK election campaign, but at least has nothing to do with economic policy expertise, Mr Nuremberger! [[Bravorufe and congratulation with the ÖVP and congratulation with representatives of the liberals.]] It is a weak comfort if I can point out that this year's Easter date probably had a good share of this increase of 4.1 percent, but we are still – even if you calculate it – at plus 2 to plus 3 percent. However, a regional comparison, ladies and gentlemen, is already acceptable and appropriate, because it cannot be a mere coincidence that now about one third of Austria's unemployment in Vienna with over 80 000 unemployed and a further increase of 5 300 unemployed per month in April, while unemployment in my home country of Styria is falling by 7 percent, that is, minus 2 300 unemployed. I would like to draw your attention to this regional difference, Mr Nürnberger. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are not decoupled from international development, neither labour market nor growth. One plus of 4.1 per cent at 4.5 per cent unemployment after EU calculation is too much for me, but this has been put into a ratio to numbers that are currently running through the telegraphs: In Germany, the number of job-seekers, Mr Nürnberger, with 4.44 million, remained under a new April record mark only because of the change in statistics entered into force at the beginning of the year. Employment continued to decline and the situation remained more tense on the apprenticeship market than in the previous year. So unemployment is twice as high as in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, where red-green rules! [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] In the European section, we are quite reasonable here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – Listen to what else happens in Europe! We are in the Europe of 15 and now in the Europe of 25, this is also important. You should be interested that the EU Commission is predicting that we will already have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU-15 this year: the lowest, not the second or third lowest! And with regard to youth unemployment, we have been thanking God for a long time in the position to have the most relatively low rate. This does not mean that not every unemployed person – and especially every youth unemployed person – is too much that we need to help and do something for, but this European comparison has been written to you in the social democratic root book, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I was somewhat surprised by your expertise, Mr Nürnberger, if you quickly confuse “amount” with “abduction amount”. This can still be repeated until tomorrow, until the tax reform discussion. You confused this, and the difference is in the prospectus. This is of great social importance: Amounts of redundancies also benefit small earners, free payments only persons with a high tax progression and good earners. – You should know that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Nürnberger, however, what surprised me even more, was that you think small employment is increasing, and this would lead to an increase in the employment rate of women. - Wrong! Low employment conditions are not included in the unemployment rate or in the employment rates. – You should know that if you put a question to me here, Mr Deputies. If you correct the picture a little, we have excellent developments in terms of women's employment. 66 percent is now the employment rate of women according to EU criteria. The Lisbon target to be achieved by 2010 is 60 percent. We are very good on the road with 66 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Overall, I am of course committed to pursuing target groups of labour market policies. It sometimes seems to me that in April, 43 800 people – mainly unemployed – participated in qualification programmes. What do you think is active labour market policy? What is the AMS doing with its €700 million? – Active labour market policy in terms of qualification and higher qualification of the unemployed! These people are in training – the more, the better. Something else would not be possible at all, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we say about these training measures, yes to new record budgets for the AMS for active labour market policy and, ultimately, to figures that Austria has, of course, achieved a new employment record in all its concerns for high unemployment rates. This is the result of the fact that the 15 000 unemployed have to be calculated this year, which in the past have been subject to average living and have been paid as employees and now refer to unemployment benefit and are not considered to be employed. Mr Nürnberger! You too should be ready to calculate that. As a result, you can reach plus 14 000 and not minus 1 000 employees in the annual period. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, as Minister of Labour, I stand together with the Federal Chancellor and the entire Federal Government on my statement and on my guarantee that no youth should remain without a teaching position. What I don't understand at all: Mr Wallner, as a representative of the AK, came to the Board of Directors of the AMS and decided that there was a reception network of 7 000 training places in the autumn of this year. Some others have also been changed to your proposals, for example the extension of courses to twelve months or the possibility of a quarter course. – All of these were your proposals, and I picked them up. But then it is you who say everything is bad and wrong, the young people are on the street. However, in the highest body of the AMS, where the social partners hold two thirds of the votes, you decide slightly differently. You have to explain this to the young people in this country first! My guarantee and the guarantee of the Federal Chancellor is: Every youth and every youth looking for an apprenticeship gets one – if there is no teaching space available, at least one course. That's how we'll keep it in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! They address the fact that we have reduced the summer quota by 250 – i.e. about 5 percent – in agreement with employers and employees in the countries. I can't help it if Mr Kaske has so little contact with his representatives in the countries that he has to criticize it. I know one thing about this with the social partners in the tourist countries – above all about Tyrol and Salzburg – and have therefore adopted this seasonal regulation in good time for summer tourism. In this sense, I can now address the questions raised to me, so that there is enough time for it. Question 1: My answer is: The development of the labour market and employment cannot be considered decoupled from the global economy. As has already been said, according to the EU Commission's spring forecast Austria will have the lowest unemployment in the Union of the 15 this year, and by the way, the second lowest in the Union of the 25. Interestingly, Cyprus is a little better and has to import labour. Questions 2 and 3: I would like to answer this together. At the Brussels European Council in March 2003, Austria significantly initiated the establishment of a Task Force chaired by Wim Kok. I myself was able to convince myself in a personal meeting with the chairman that Austria is successfully implementing the recommendations. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Question 4: I have already given this mandate to the AMS in 2001 with my labour market policy targets. With a record budget of around €1.4 billion – an active and active labour market policy combined – this is already successfully implemented by the AMS. Here you can also compare our AMS with the German: 4 200 employees do more and better than about 100 000 employees in Germany. The labour market shows this. Question 5: The AMS already has an obligation to ensure sustainable labour market integration. In this sense, for example, more than 240 000 persons were qualified in 2003. On question 6: Of course, measures are offered – if necessary – for all age groups. If one pursues labour market policy for 15-19 years of age and for those over 50 years of age, it is hoped that the labour market figures will be better for these age groups than for the 25 to 50 years of age. – This is implicitly clear. I recognize this focus in the young and in the elderly. Furthermore, it is stated that 53 percent of the funding cases in the age group are between 25 and 45 and the unemployment rate is still 52.4 percent. – So this is not so disproportionate again. Question 7: Valorization is already ongoing with wage increases. 55 percent net replacement rate, but net replacement rate of wage. - That's moving up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy: Incredible]] Question 8: Extensive measures in this area are already under way, for example through integrative establishments. In the “ZiB 2” yesterday there was a very impressive report about it. It is a question of non-profit-making workers' leave or of socio-economic enterprises. We work together with Caritas, Volkshilfe and many others excellent. That must and will go on. On the question 9: The introduction and increase of childcare allowances and the promotion of childcare facilities and allowances within my area of competence are apparently very successful. Women's employment rate has now increased to 66 percent, as has been said. Question 10: Targeted measures have been set up by the 2003 Budgetary Accompanying Act. One is thinking of the reduction in the additional wage costs of older workers – which has become valid at 1. January this year – amounting to € 140 million per year. The pension reform also increases the employment rate of older people. It is good that you ask this question, because with the pension reform, we wanted to increase the retirement age in this country in particular. In 2002, there were 30 percent of 55-64-year-olds in the acquisition process, with 33.5% in 2003. Ladies and gentlemen! The EU cut is 40 percent. In Germany, it is weak 38 percent, and in Sweden – socially democratically governed – about 68 percent of the 55-64-year-olds are in the acquisition process. That's where we have to go! The 2003 pension reform is the way forward, but you have rejected it because you do not really care about the employment rate of older people. [[Call the SPÖ:Polemik!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Excellent! I am very happy to answer this call because it will interest you, Mrs Silhavy, that since March 2000, there have been 67 000 more employees in the age group between 50 and 64 since Wolfgang Schüssel and we bear responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Do you know how unemployment has developed in this age group over the last four years? – Plus 80. So she stayed the same de facto. The answer to your very appropriate call. On the question 11: The control of illegal foreign employment is the BMF, you know. The KIAB was established and has achieved great success: 3 500 cases have been reported. You also know that Minister of Finance Grasser with 1. In May of this year, personnel capacity increased by 100 percent to nearly 200 control bodies. Question 12: As you yourself have pointed out in your question, the Treaty of Amsterdam already laid down European employment policy as its own chapter in the EU Treaty in 1997. Remember – Dr. One thing is certain – that full employment is also set as a goal in Article I.3 of the draft EU Constitution. - That's good and good. We want full employment, and the European Union should also want it. We have not yet reached it, but want it because as Minister of Labour, I am only satisfied when full employment is restored to this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the question 13: I refer to my answers to questions 2 and 3. Question 14: In the rail and road infrastructure sector, investments amounting to €32 billion are planned. Expenditure on research and development will be increased by a total of €1.2 billion for the years 2004 to 2006. You know that according to the latest statistical data – these were already known before the formulation of your request – the R&D share is 2.27 percent of GDP. In fact, we are clearly above the EU average and are in good shape to achieve our intermediate goal and then our further goal of 3% by 2010. Question 15: I fully agree with the Deputy Chancellor and Minister for Transport and support the inclusion of the Semmering Tunnel in the list of European Union TENs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] – That wasn't just, but above all, my Styrian friends. On the question 16: For the first time, the Schüssel I Cabinet has drawn up an Austrian general transport plan to ensure the rapidest possible expansion of the infrastructure links of the enlargement countries. There were, however, failures. – This has been discussed this morning too. On the question 17: The Federal Government has made a clear commitment to the European Union Stability Pact. Due to the excellent budgetary discipline of this Federal Government, there is also enough room for forward-looking investment within the Stability Pact. Although we are among the six net payers, we are not among the six states that received blue letters from Brussels on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e10049	The next speaker was Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e10067	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Bartenstein! I am horrified by cynicism and the coldness of your answer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Extensive opposition to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If If you feel that discussion in the House is a pleasure, then that is, I think, a wrong attitude! [[Abg. Head: The opposite is the case!]] The issue of unemployment and those concerned should be of interest to you, and this is a serious issue, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: That's embarrassing what you're doing!]] Perhaps some of you today have read the article “But I Need Work ” in the “Small Newspaper. ” [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Go! Go ahead and see what he said!]] – Listening You might want to get a sense of how people are doing, and do not always polemize here in this house! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I quote: “He stood in the office at the information desk and always repeated a sentence: “But I need a job”...” – Mr Mitterlehner! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What does this have to do with it?]] This has to do with employment policy, if you have not yet heard it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] “He repeatedly repeated a sentence: “But I need a job, I need a job.” A small, worn-out man in the middle of 40, who wanted to hammer his despair to a young woman behind the switch. The staff member of the AMS shook the head, pointed to the appearance he had brought, and also repeatedly repeated: ‘With this sham, you will not get any work. They are sick.” The man shook his head, but he could work, he needed work. One of the masses of the 240 556 unemployed, one who is behind these faceless figures that were presented again yesterday.” Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Head: Shame!]] Your reaction to this article shows what attitude you have to people with what coldness They face people's problems. You should be ashamed of this policy! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: No, you should be ashamed!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have already discussed enlargement and the benefits and hopes associated with it. It was also spoken of the fears associated with it. In this policy and in the reactions you show here in this House, I do not wonder that the people in Austria are afraid. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We all want to have a constructive policy for people, but then make it It is a policy that is also human – a policy that does not go beyond it and which does not ignore the concerns, plans and fears of people! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: With the uncertainty policy...!]] Make a policy in favour of people so that you can take these fears and concerns! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: What do you do to make it better?]] Mr Bartenstein, I have heard of you today beautiful and beautiful figures. You yourself know exactly: Even if we calculate people who are not in employment – such as those who are present and children’s benefits – there is a minimum of 8,000 employees compared to the previous year. You don't need to beautify the numbers. We can also deal with the statistics and read them. [[Abg. Wittauer: You used to falsify them!]] – These are not figures from us, but the official figures of the Federal Minister. Federal Minister! You always go to Vienna. However, I would like to point out to you that Vorarlberg and Tyrol have the highest increase in unemployment. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] This is probably not because of the policy of your party friends in these federal states, but it is certainly because of the policy you are running in the government. – And it is also decisive for Vienna! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It does very little to show how great and classic one is in the international and European comparison, while everyone and every third party who is employed in the private sector is affected by unemployment once a year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Should I start counting with the liberals? – One, two, three: You would be unemployed for the first time, Mr Dolinschek! Their ranks are weakly occupied. If I count out every third party, perhaps you could understand the impact of these people who are once a year affected by unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What do you have for solutions?]] I am still here, but first of all it is important for me to answer the question. Mr Bartenstein has so beautifully explained the employment of older workers. Minister! But this is not a problem: If you can go to pension instead of 55, 56 or 57 with 58 or 59, you will grow in. But there are no new jobs created, but it is a purely biologically comprehensible history. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] – Minister of State! With these beautiful numbers you do not need to come! Second point: They say that if you focus on the over 50s and on those under 20s, it is clear that this group is, as it were, less affected. I'll give you the right. But moving the whole problem to the 20 to 24 year olds, as your own statistics prove, is a sign that you are making the wrong policy. You say great, you put a focus, but you don't take money into your hands. You just take the money away from other groups. Logically, then, there are shifts. This is not a measure! This is a turning from one problem group to the other. The unemployed have to pay for this because they are suffering. [[Abg. Head: You should stop claiming falsehood!]] Not the Minister, but those who are unemployed – and not you who are now always talking! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: Stop claiming untruths! Would that be possible?]] Mr Minister, something else: Mr Nürnberger mentioned the number of minor employees. If you represent it as if he did not know how those employment policy and labour market policy are counted, then you probably did not listen well to it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: No, I listened exactly!]] The fact is that people, especially women, have to take on several jobs, namely part-time employment and small jobs, so that they can survive at all. This is the scandal, because it is also a Lisbon goal to increase the quality of work: not to create McJobs, but jobs of which people can live and exist. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] For example, Mr Nürnberger explained how to create growth through investment in Austria, and that for example, € 1 billion for investment programmes would mean 30 000 jobs. Minister! You said in May last year you wanted to use the rooms. Do you know what you thought of it as the only one? – Another liberalisation of shop opening times! That was the only thing you thought of the subject of play areas. This is a scandal and pure cynicism, and that is really to be rejected! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: Another scandal!]] On the other hand, you say that the development of labour market policy cannot be seen separately and separated from the economy. – In this I give you the right, but then you do something to make the economy come into swing! They are not only ministers of labour, but also ministers of the economy. Do not continue to put in place the wrong measures that do not have employment effects! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Minister! This has sounded nice when you say that the Task Force's proposals on employment are being implemented in Austria. I would ask you to do this more precisely, because I have studied the report carefully. I also know he's being renegotiated. Neither did they tell us that this is not in reality a final report, but that it is being negotiated and its own group is set up. What has actually been implemented? – I haven’t discovered anything that would have been implemented with us, nor did people. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: That was just the interpretation of Nuremberger!]] You can also be officially convinced, Dr. Mitterlehner, you are also otherwise able to read certain things, maybe you can read them even without black glasses in front of your eyes, then you might also have a clear perspective, because a black glasses darken the look! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] If you look at the development of the labour market in Austria, Minister, you have to say that this is not so rosy in the EU comparison, because the increase in unemployment in Austria is greater than in other EU countries and local employment increases are lower. You have announced that you would not be satisfied until we have a Stockerl place. I would very much like to support you in this – but, Minister, it will be necessary to do something! Blank cynicism will not be enough. It will not be enough for you, it will not be enough for politics, it will not be enough for the people concerned, and it will not strengthen people's confidence in the EU, but also in Austrian politics. That is why I am convinced that people will give the right answer not only in the coming Chamber of Workers' Elections, but also in the EU's elections. People want security, people want trust, people want a policy of humanity. And we can offer these as social democrats, but you in the Federal Government can't!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e10441	The next speaker was Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e10469	It says: No jobs are created with emotions, blasphemies and socialist propaganda. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This was a “strong” entry!]] I give the opposition in a right: The fight against unemployment must be top priority! The fight against unemployment is a crucial objective and an important point in the work of this Federal Government and, hopefully, of all the mandates in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I assume that all political groups agree that our goal must be full employment, ladies and gentlemen. Our objective is, at least, full employment. The achievement of this objective opens up different possibilities. It is quite legitimate if the opposition is of the opinion that those measures that the Federal Government and the governmental parties are not sufficient. It is an unsustainable accusation, however, when Member of Parliament says that the Federal Government is not doing anything! I am therefore saying this because you, Mr Nürnberger, as the social partners, first know very well that a large number of measures have been developed, together with the social partners, not only with the social partners, but also implemented. Secondly, this allegation is so incredible, because it is actually subject to the Federal Government's obligation to take it knowingly, even deliberately, that there are more unemployed people in Austria. That is why I ask the two Presidents, who are sitting there in sad twilight, what you say to 23 other European governments, whether they are social-democratic or conservative? [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: This is their meat!]] 23 European governments in Europe are buying that they have a significantly higher unemployment rate than we do in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why the measures taken by the Federal Government are to be welcomed. According to the European Union's spring forecast, even 24 European governments are less successful with their actions than the Austrian Federal Government. I wonder, What do you mean by all these governments, whether they are socially democratic or conservative? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to tell you that it would be good to come in front of your own door. You do not like to hear this, of course, if you expect the number of jobs in Vienna to be at the level of 1965. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: What?]] – Yes, at 1965 the jobs are in Vienna, while in other federal states we have a plus of 30 percent, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Incredible!]] More socialism in Vienna clearly means less jobs for the Viennans. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: Nürnberger, watch out!]] Look The statistics on gross value added in Vienna in the years from 1994 to 2000 are clear trends! The more social democracy, the less gross value added in Vienna, the less jobs, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You have the highest insolvency to answer from SPÖ in Vienna. This is of course also related to the framework conditions that exist in Vienna. Since 2000, you have had a cost avalanche swept over the Viennans and Viennaers. The costs for the Kindergarten in Vienna were increased from € 183 to €196; the garbage fees were increased from €2.50 to €3.16, the tickets for the Vienna lines from €1.60 to €2, the monthly ticket from €40.70 to €45, the annual card from €377 to €409 and the bath rate from €5 to €5.50. Look at your own door, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: That's price-driver!]] There, where you rule with absolute majority, the conditions for the people in this country are getting worse! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Furthermore, the development of jobs between 1999 and 2004: In Vienna there was a minus of 13,890 jobs and in the rest of Austria a plus of 76 700 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Please turn in front of your own door! Now on a subject that is particularly important to us, because it is ultimately also related to the meaning of life: on the issue of youth unemployment. As bad as age unemployment is, it is a particularly problematic situation for a young person who comes from compulsory school if he does not have a job. We have to put all the initiatives that are imaginable so that the point of view can be fulfilled in a positive way for these young people. In this context, the Federal Government was anything but inactive, Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! You know that, too. There was a series and a wealth of measures starting from just the year 2004, which I could read to you, unfortunately, my time is not enough for that. But there is a lot of measures – you know that very well. Finally, Mrs Silhavy, you are constantly accusing us of social cold! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I would remind you of what your party chairman said, namely, that he wanted to delete the care allowance. [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] He said: It was a wrong decision to introduce the care allowance. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: This is social cold!]] More than 300 000 people in Austria receive care money, Mr. Gusenbauer, Mr. Klubobmann! This is social cold, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr. Klubobmann! You turn here from your own statements, I may continue them. [[Abg. Parnigoni: In front of you!]] They literally said in the “standard”: In times of economic crisis, “they should not have increased social expenditure, but invest anticyclically.” – This is exactly what this German government is doing with the structural measures that have been set up, and with the successful tax reform, which will in particular relieve small incomes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e10684	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e10703	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have seen an international growth weakness for three years, which has also not been completely lost in Austria, and Austria has not been spared from it, although we are quite outstanding in the international comparison. Nevertheless, the situation on the labour market is serious. I believe, however, that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, do not take the situation so seriously. They make a urgent request here, but are hardly present. You're hardly present! So you don't take this seriously at all. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's really true! Nürnberger's not here!]] So your urgent question is more populist because you do not take the situation seriously, Mrs Silhavy, although it is a serious issue. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Nuremberger just left!]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: First light up and then go!]] The Austrian Federal Government has responded to the effects of the global economic situation, the weakening of the economy and the resulting increase in unemployment, with an increase in funds for labour market policies. She responded. The creation of new jobs and employment opportunities is a priority objective of this coalition! This will be achieved through improved framework conditions for the economy, such as through structural reforms and optimised location development. The desired structural change is also intended to open up new income opportunities for workers. In 2003, the funds for active labour market policy with a record budget of €1 400 million were raised to the highest level in Austria so far. It should not be ignored. You have to acknowledge that too. Our goal is full employment. I am convinced that your goal, too, is full employment. We should all work to regain this full employment. Every unemployed person, regardless of whether this is a younger or an older person, no matter what gender he has, should we not mind. Every unemployed person is too much. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's right!]] – Mrs Silhavy, so it is! However, we cannot ignore the fact that the economic flute is international and Austria still has half a good standing. We cannot speak against everything that this federal government has done in the past. You're trying. [[Abg. Silhavy: We have too many unemployed!]] I give you the right, and the Federal Minister has also said that he does not agree that we now have an increase in unemployment by 4.1 percent, and that he will also make an effort. But compare the data with those in other European countries or internationally! Let us compare the unemployment figures of April with those of the previous year! Statistics say a lot, once it's expected, once it's expected differently. If you rely on the figures now announced by the main association of Austrian social security institutions – without the small employees – we have an employment status of 3 165 000. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] – That is not true, Mr Oillinger? It's clear everything you don't fit isn't right, it's like that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Oellinger, you're always quoting some statistics, but if anyone brings something written that we rely on, you're saying, Yeah, that's not true! This is all not true and so on and so on. – That’s it once! [[Abg. Ollinger: I'll explain it to you then!]] The Chambers of Labour repeatedly warn against immigration due to the enlargement of the EU. They have been very critical in recent weeks and months and are afraid that the Austrian labour market will be flooded. It is said that the transitional period must be observed. This federal government has done it. And then you say, That's not true at all! That's stupid! This is why the Chamber of Labour has still been talking. What's now? What are you confessing for? [[Abg. Mr Dolinschek! If any job seekers come to you, what do you tell him?]] – Then I will try to get him a job. I'm helping him. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President of the Council! We went other ways in Carinthia, the AMS is trying. We know it's not very easy, but the office of the Carinthian state government has tried. The head of state has established a civil service, and the job placement works together with the AMS. For every youth up to 25 years of age, this works. We continue our apprenticeship training and so on and so on. We're trying! Mr Vergestnitsch, we cannot take care of everything from one day to the next. But I'm convinced that in Carinthia we're going the right way. It will show itself in the next few years whether it is the right way. I'm convinced. We have the first successes in any case. [[Abg. Silhavy: But this is interesting, Mr Dolinschek!]] Mrs Silhavy, when we come back to the Austrian labour market situation, I have to say one thing: Many things have, of course, been seasonal, which has already been said by the previous speakers, by your group as well as by the colleagues of the ÖVP. Of course, the construction industry depends a little on the weather, but nevertheless we will work to ensure that there is employment far beyond the year and that seasonal unemployment is curbed. Measures have also been taken during the stay, Mrs Silhavy, because the average length of stay in unemployment was 113 days in April. Perhaps Mr Oellinger does not contradict this, even if the statistics do not fit him again! Five years ago it was 140 days. We want to reduce this to 90 days – in this respect there are also social dialogues. Everyone is working on it, and one should try to limit this length of stay. Long-term unemployment must also be reduced. Let's all confess to it and work on it! Today, occupational protection no longer corresponds to what he used to be. That is why I agree with the solution that the trade union has also taken. We must come from occupational protection to income protection! I think it's quite right that this is guaranteed. We also need a recast of the rules on availability because they are snow from the year. There must be something new here, that's important. Now on the development of unemployment statistics in the federal states: I think it has already been said today that at the end of April the Styria had minus 7 percent and by 2 341 unemployed, in the Burgenland there is also a minus of 1.9 percent, and in Carinthia the statistics are down by 1.4 percent. In contrast, unemployment in Vienna has increased by 6.9% and by 5 342 unemployed, which is an above-average increase. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Insanity!]] And this is happening in the most populous state of Austria! This, of course, takes the whole of the statistics with it. One could do something regionally political, but the social democrats have the responsibility in Vienna. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Unfortunately!]] I can't save you that. Unfortunately, I cannot spare you that you have the responsibility in Vienna and can set the course of regional policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Allow me to make a brief comment on the increase in youth unemployment by 2.4 percent. As in the previous month, this is due exclusively to the age group of 20 to 24 years. In April, unemployment fell among 19-year-olds and was reduced by 1.5 percent. The Federal Government has decided on the "Jobs for You(th)" programme in order to maintain the international top priority of Austria in youth employment. In the EU comparison, Austria has the lowest youth unemployment rate at 7.3 percent, followed by Ireland and the Netherlands. In the EU, the average of more than 18 percent is more than twice as high as in Austria. The apprenticeship market is down slightly. The number of open apprenticeships is also declining. In the courses 6 300 are integrated on the basis of the Youth Training Security Act, and two out of three young people then receive a training place, a regular teaching centre. It's being helped! The difference compared to earlier is only that these trainees and the young people in training are shown while they have been hidden earlier. That's it! In this context, I would like to say that this was not the yellow of the egg with Euroteam, which the Social Democrats brought in here at the time. Finally, I would like to briefly explain our objectives: to keep unemployment as short as possible in 2004, to combat the permanent exclusion of people from the labour market and to promote the labour market opportunities of young people, older people and women.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e10903	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e10921	Mr President. Mr Bartenstein, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I give colleagues Amon right at the beginning: Yes, Mr Amon, there were a few comments in your remarks, where I could only always give you the hookerl: “Amon is right!” You are right: With emotions and abuses, we cannot have a labour market debate. But I would also ask you, Mr Amon, that if you take this seriously, you do not turn off again at the end of the day, so to speak, into the cheap emotion with the care allowance and so on. [[Abg. Head: (pointing to the ranks of the SPÖ) That's what you have to say!]] Let's save this! We want to discuss employment and labour market policies, and I wish, Mr Amon, that we could have stayed at that level that would be necessary to hold this debate. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What Mr Nürnberger has stated, the level, and Mrs Silhavy! Here comes the level!]] Let us all go here and bring in all our best proposals! Let's get something out of it! It is not true that anyone has found the stone of the sages in labour market and employment policy. But one, ladies and gentlemen, and also Mr Amon – and I will return to you once again – must be taken for granted, namely the accusation that you have been coloring the situation on the labour market for years – and Mr. Federal Minister, you are unfortunately the main reason for this. That's the first one! The second is that you're pretending to have moved with your kind of labour market policy in recent years just something towards qualification. I say, on the contrary! The labour market policy of this Federal Government has at best led to the redistribution of unemployment within the individual age groups: Old against young, and now we are discussing – and this is the new – that the middle age group has, so to speak, the highest increase in unemployment. It can't be that from one year to the other, we're redistributing unemployment from one age group to the next! That's not a perspective! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Third point, my honours. Ladies and gentlemen: Labour market policy alone is not enough. Unlike Mr Nürnberger, I do not presuppose that you lack any employment policy, but I say that the government is making an employment policy, but it is certainly the wrong one. It is an employment policy which is based only on the criteria of the Stability Pact and is actually – and let us say this again, Mr Amon! – in the core, the measures you take in relation to labour market, employment and economic policy do not differ from those in Germany, although you are always so critical of Red Green there! [[Abg. Amon: We're better!]] And that is the actual tragedy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who are you criticizing now?]] What we blame you for in the field of economic and employment policy is that you rely solely on deregulation, flexibility, and that is the problem. We see across Europe how far we have come with this policy in other countries. What we blame you – and that is not the responsibility of Federal Minister Bartenstein alone – is that you lack any interest in a common European employment policy, namely an employment policy similar to the Stability Pact, based on indictable criteria, sanctions, mechanisms, penalties for those who do not comply with them. Yes, why is there no such tough measures in the field of employment policy? - Because you don't want her! With “You” – excuse me, colleague Amon! – not only are ÖVPs and FPÖs meant, but they mean European governments that have seen in recent years how unemployment has grown from 10 million to 14 million across Europe. This is not a success card, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I'm coming to another level. I am very grateful, Mr Amon, for addressing the problem of youth unemployment. Can you imagine – and I believe Mr Amon, you will agree with me – that young people also have ideas about employment, about a job, about something meaningful that they can do, and that little help has been given to them if, for the time being, a training course is offered to them as the only perspective for the time being? Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that if you have been trained for two, three or four years, you might also ask yourself as a youth: What else is there for me? Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that a young person – because he has put himself in the head of a car mechanic; we know that there are too many of them – also has dreams, ideas of a concrete job and that it does little to help the young people if they are told: Although we do not have what you want to do, we do not have anything in this direction at all, but perhaps at least some job is left in the labour market. And be it that you have to pilger from Vienna to Bregenz. – This was the proposal of a President of the Chamber of Commerce: We don't have the job here – young people, go to Bregenz! Bye, family! Is that the perspective? Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen – and with this I will return to the courses – that a chief secretary who has worked for 30 years is 50 years old, 55 years old, in a job coaching course, would like to learn how to apply for a job? Is this the perspective for this woman that she, who has been in charge of management in a company for decades, is being managed for her boss appointments, says: You need to learn how you apply! even though she was the one who has arranged all contacts with her bosses and with her workmates and business partners? - It can't be! And now I come to your recipes. Working hours up! - That's your concept. Yes, what does a woman have to think about doing business that is happy if she gets paid a job with 20 hours, let alone that she works with this 20-hour job mostly for 30 hours and 10 hours of it unpaid? Wages down because they're too high! – What do women have to think about who are 30 to 40 percent below that of men? This is why, because they already have lower wages, they do not have about 30 to 40 percent more employment, but, as labour market statistics show, more unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be a lot to say. For example, you, Mr Federal Minister, would have to ask the question: Why, then, is there no higher education qualifications than offers offered by the AMS to unemployed people, although we know that poor qualifications are a major obstacle? But I would also like to say, because it is about unemployment and because we have the impression that you sometimes fight against the unemployed and not unemployment, to make a request that we believe it makes sense: [[Quoted print version removed]] We want to put a sign with this, because: It is not the unemployed who are to blame, but they need our support, they also need our political help, and they actually need an advocacy from you, Mr. Federal Minister – and not only the hint that we are doing “oh” everything best.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e11070	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mrs Ollinger, Mrs Freundes, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e11091	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Federal Minister! According to the statements made above all by the colleague en von der ÖVP – today it was only a colleague – on unemployment one could get the impression that there is international development on the one hand and that one cannot decouple from the global economy, as Mr Bartenstein pointed out, however, that on the other hand there are federal states, especially one that is totally decoupled from the development at the federal level and is a major problem. And in the middle, so to speak, there is this federal government, which has to look at the actlessly – and unfortunately, unfortunately, can do nothing at all. Now I do not want to address the contradiction that, in your opinion, one cannot decouple itself from the international economy, but Vienna – in order to name this state by name – is not at all influenced by federal development, so apart from this contradiction: a few facts about the development in Vienna, because we always have to listen to the most incredible fairy tales from the government parties. Unemployment has risen the most, not in Vienna, but in Vorarlberg, in Tirol and in Salzburg! In Salzburg, it will hopefully be better soon. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, reduces investment and labour market funding in Vienna. Since 2000, the Federal Government has reduced 16 000 jobs in Vienna! This is a lot for the Vienna labour market, and of course one is intertwined with the other – and therefore you can't do ÖVP and FPÖ as if this one had nothing to do with the other! Despite the rise in unemployment, the Federal Government has reduced the budget of the labour market service in Vienna! I emphasize: not raised, but shortened! This must also have an impact on the Vienna labour market! Vienna, on the other hand, is the only federal country that has an additional and national labour market promotion and has increased it to 42 million €, i.e. actively implements and acts. In Vienna, 200 000 people are commuting from other federal states. This means that Vienna has taken over the Vienna labour market with it a compensation for the problem of other federal states. The Vienna labour market is such a large labour market that every fourth job in Austria is located in Vienna. In Vienna was there in 2003 – not minus as I had heard before! – 3 000 jobs more; economic performance in Vienna is 50 percent more than in the other Länder. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In Vienna also had a new record of business start-ups in 2003 – but we had heard the opposite before. The economic promotion has been doubled in the last few years in Vienna! This, ladies and gentlemen, is the facts about the Vienna labour market, and I can only say in summary: If an almost similar policy were to be made in the federal government as in Vienna, we would not have this immense unemployment problem in Austria! [[Abg. Head: Thank God!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the second subject, which I would like to address very briefly, particularly in terms of women's terms of unemployment. We have heard from Federal Minister Bartenstein that there is an excellent development. – What you, Minister of State Bartenstein, mean by ‘excellent development’, will just make me hideous! Now, apart from the fact that the 66 percent of women's employment you have mentioned here is not right, because you are quoting figures that are not adjusted in terms of part-time work, are not adjusted in relation to children's benefits – but, be it, Mr Federal Minister! – 109 000 unemployed women are eight out of ten new unemployed women – and here you are talking about an “excellent development”! That must not be true, Mr. Federal Minister! Do you have other numbers – or do you have such a different political understanding? In today’s “Kurier” there is a considerable article on this subject, in which a clear link is also made with the way in which the child money is constructed – and that one now sees the first, very easily predictable developments regarding this child’s allowance: For example, the fact that termination protection lasts half a year shorter than women can obtain child benefits – and many also relate – and that they then stand at once, without warning, without work. In other words, there would be a very important point to be adjusted, and as long as it is not adapted, at least immediately to introduce a warning system in order to tell women: Attention, in a few weeks your cancellation protection expires; you need to change something about the situation, you have to decide now! – Mr Federal Minister, please take this measure at least once as an intermediate step! The “Kurier” gives you a comment that this can’t be a coincidence because the forecasts were appropriate, and it underlies your intention. – I agree, Federal Minister Bartenstein, that in a dispute published in the “profile” in 1999, you said you wanted to lead the women back to the children’s room. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: What? What?- Oh, my God!]] – We said at the time: This is the family policy of the Barten Stone Age! Today’s “Kurier” says that this is a policy that no longer meets today’s requirements. – Mr Bartenstein, yes, you have succeeded: The women now, as it were, pick fast in the children's room – but the women want to get out of there, and they expect you to set the appropriate conditions!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e11225	As the next speaker, the honourable Member's head is mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e11243	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs Silhavy and, in absence, Mr Pre-sident Nürnberger: Each of us here in the House knows such individual cases that you mentioned, deplorable individual cases of people looking for unsuccessful work. Each of us could already help in such individual cases, but each of us has been unsuccessful in trying to help these people. Only: What you are doing here is something so objectionable, namely the employment of statistical figures, which are used to cast and represent the success or failure of measures in figures, against the presentation of individual sicks! [[Objection to the SPÖ]] That's cynical, that's repulsive! This is an arrogance that these unfortunate people have not deserved! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: “Small Newspaper ”!]] I understand that you have been tried by the SPÖ in the face of workers' chamber elections in Vienna to display electoral polemics here, to use these numbers and these fates to “back up” this polemic, but tell you: Shame on it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Shame for the numbers!]] I understand that you don't want to hear from the SPÖ, because: Austria is – according to forecast for spring 2004 – the country with the lowest unemployment rate of all EU-15. That is, at the personal level you have referred to: Austria is the country that has the least of these pitiful individual fates in its country, since there is much better and less such fates than in any other EU country. Austria is also the country with the lowest youth unemployment rate, i.e. the country in which the least young people are in this unfortunate situation, as you have just tried to describe from the SPÖ on the basis of individual cases. Austria – and this is even in your request – has managed to relax in the unemployment situation of older people; this is also the case in the introduction of your SPÖ application. Economic growth in Austria – and this is at the end of the day the basis for rising employment figures – is above the EU average. I understand you don't want to hear these numbers from the opposition, but: These figures are confirmed by all the institutions – whether by the EU or by scientists – only you do not want to do so by the SPÖ. But I'll tell you, too. These figures do not come from about, and this compared relatively better situation in Austria does not come from about: We use a record amount of money for active labour market policy with €1 400 million. We have now put on top of the 'Jobs for You(th)' programme with 8 000 jobs for young people. The courses have been increased to 7 000. € 50 million in addition to the Youth Training Security Act! The AMS reform has led you to say that over the course of a year there were 800 000 people – cumulatively counted – once in unemployment; but we have even brought a higher number of people out of unemployment, and the length of stay in unemployment has fallen to 100 days. That is, the reformed AMS, the AMS reformed by Mr Bartenstein, works better today than ever – thanks to its reform measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: What reform?]] Even in the older people's employment rate, ladies and gentlemen, the development does not come about: We have lowered the additional wage costs for older employees, and that is why the successes you yourself quoted and described have occurred. Of course, the fact that we have such a low employment rate for older workers over 50 or over 55 has to do with pension policy over the last 30 years. If we now raise the retirement age there, the employment rate in this population group will, of course, also rise, not least in view of the demographic development we expect. That's a fact that you can't discuss any more than that. So: We are the number one in Europe in terms of employment. We are at the forefront of the EU in terms of social security. We are top worldwide in terms of educational expenditure. [[Abg. Oils: Go, please!]] Only: In order to be able to receive these high expenditures – if you do not believe it, then believe it, Mr Androsch, who gives it to him today in the APA, but criticizing it; ask him! –, we need growth! Growth brakes are the level of taxes, the lack of flexibility, the supply orientation we have grown in this country for over 30 years. We have done something about taxes: The largest tax reform, which has existed since the end of World War II, in the Second Republic, will be decided tomorrow in this House, and all, all entrepreneurs, all economic researchers are prophesying and predicting that this tax reform is appropriate to raise employment levels, prevent immigration and much more. Flexibility, which is now creating greater flexibility in the labour market through these reforms, is already the first success. However, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖGB: It was the speech before, even from Mr Nürnberger, that we need more flexibility. Therefore, please give up your blockade on working time flexibility and make a real flexibility in the working time scheme with us, because the regulations we have today are clearly too rigid! [[Abg. Controversy: Where is the “blockade”?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Reheis and Mr Brosz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, the following: In your urgent request, you criticize the stability orientation in our budget policy. – You know, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, you still have the Minister of Finance in 1997/1998. At the time, they had a budget deficit of 4 percent, but just as many unemployed people as we have today – just as many! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald:... shredder!]] That means: You have the deficit, you have made waste the principle – but without effect! [[Abg. With bowl!]] We, the EIA-FPÖ government, are making a stability-oriented budget policy, but with a clear objective: We have created scope through the 2002/2003 budgets, which we can now use to implement measures such as economic packages or tax reform to tackle the employment problem in Austria. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Some few entrepreneurs...!]] This is the big difference: We are making budgetary policy stable, but with a clear objective, for the benefit of the people in this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e11449	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e11468	Ladies and gentlemen! Although Mrs Kuntzl has endeavored to better represent the sad situation in the socialist Vienna alone and to beautify everything that can be found there in abuses, she has not succeeded. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Successful!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: With facts!]] Mrs Kuntzl! The address of your urgent needs should in fact be Vienna – and not the Federation! – Please listen, Mr Matznetter, before you make calls again. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Oja! Because he is responsible, Mr Bartenstein!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No, he's in charge!]] In its current study, the Economic Research Institute documents that a distortion of the labour market situation is due to the poor results of Vienna: Finally, there was a slight acceleration in unemployment in Austria, but the deterioration was primarily due to the development of the labour market in Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... inactive black and blue government!]] I can also prove this to you: In Vienna there are 82 344 unemployed – an increase of 6.9 percent. Mrs Kuntzl claimed that unemployment would not rise so much in Salzburg. – That’s not true at all, it’s 7.6 percent there! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: She's climbing everywhere! ...!]] So stay. You ask the truth and do not try to cut out Vienna so to speak, just because it is socialist alone. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, listen! Don't bother me continuously in my speech by your stereotyped calls! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You know that the male Members are in the smell of always yelling together the female Members – and you are doing that right now. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Be careful! ...!]] So better yourself! Mrs Kuntzl also claimed that the Federal Government's funding for labour market promotion in Vienna had been shortened. [[Call the SPÖ: That's right!]] It's not true at all: There were 197.3 million in 2003 who received the labour market service in Vienna, and in 2004 it was 205 million. – If you say that’s less, then you can’t count, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You shouldn't act with wrong numbers. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You do!]] By the way, I would like to say something to you: It is really easy to sit here in Parliament on the opposition bankerl and to criticize everything. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: How do you know?]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is not so easy!]] But in Vienna, where you have the responsibility, you can't do anything, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! – Well, you don’t do well anyway, because the media always accuses you that you don’t even make the opposition policy proper. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I know something better!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But you're not nice! It wasn't nice now!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: We can exchange places for him!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Let's switch!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, other federal states have proved very well what a good policy can be achieved in the federal labour market sector. But: ‘Vienna is different’. Vienna is different – I will now show you this on the basis of some unwarranted sounding persons: There's a managing director of a new economy company who says: [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Grasser!]] [[Call the SPÖ: The Grasser!]] Vienna is just too slow! He is constantly looking for new, quick project managers in the middle of the world, but then he says: Try Once you get these people through the Vienna bureaucracy, until you get any approval, ladies and gentlemen! – There was virtually no administrative reform in Vienna. [[Abg. Oils: Foreigners!]] [[Abg. Oils: Foreigners!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oils: That's unheard of! ... foreigners!]] – No, that refers to the administrative reform, Mr Deputies! Renault Germany's marketing board says: In Vienna, the climate is very restrictive to become entrepreneurial. – Well, you have not implemented any administrative reform! – The same applies to you, which I first said to Mr Matznetter: [[Abg. Oellinger: Mrs Pablo, you want foreigners! That's incredible!]] Don't yell at me with always the same stereotyped accusations! [[Abg. Oellinger: That was something next to what you said now!]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Oils.]] A renowned professor at the Technical University said: There are outdated administrative structures in Vienna. Everything to be organized here must be voted 25 times. There is a widespread paralysis of the administration. The construction order works with traps – and so on. The summation is: In this city nowhere is there visible that there is a forward strategy, ladies and gentlemen, dear! This is Vienna – and there you have to sit down! [[Abg. May. Lapp: No! ...!]] There you have to try to stir up Mr Mayor Häupl! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: The Minister of Economic Affairs is responsible!]] If you bring up all your arguments that you have put forward in the emergency, once at Mayor Häupl, then perhaps something will change! [[Abg. Oillinger: Unbureaucratic work permit for foreigners – that was your proposal! We'll come back to that!]] In any case, in Vienna we have become quite clear what we have felt at the federal level by the negative financial result you left us at the time: The SPÖ can't operate! – Vienna is the living example of this, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e11863	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e11884	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Partik-Pablé has just claimed in connection with labour market policy that in Vienna, where the social democrats were responsible, we would not bring anything together. In so far as it is factually incorrect, as neither social democrats nor blacks are responsible for labour market policy in Vienna nor any other federal state, this is solely the responsibility of the Federal Minister – and therefore he is also responsible for the bad labour market situation in Vienna. One last: Nor does any other federal country do more for the development of the labour market than Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e11921	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e11939	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A favorite statement by Mr Bartenstein's Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour is that the economy is creating jobs and not politics. [[Abg. Steibl: That's it!]] Even today I've heard it before, yes! I do not assume that you mean that you, as a politician, want to adopt your political actions completely out of the responsibilities, because the government is actually taking very strong action in terms of economic activities or the framework for economic activities, which also have an impact on jobs. However, your policies are not currently leading to more jobs, but to higher unemployment. Perhaps the conclusion would be that we need other policies anyway. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to refer to a specific example, a specific issue which is relatively rarely discussed here and which, in my view, is currently completely under-explained, including with regard to employment, on the issue of the impact of your policies and your policies on the countries and communities. This is important in this context, because the countries and municipalities are one of the most important or major investors in the economic sector, and thus have so far been in favour of job security. If you look at how your government policy affects in this area, you can see that the figures are quite dramatic. Indeed, tax reform in 2005 will affect countries and municipalities in the form of very high revenue, namely – according to the Federal Ministry of Finance – at country level with lower incomes of € 381 million and at municipal level with € 333 million less, which means that in this area there will be around 5 percent less revenue in terms of income. If one now assumes what some national and local representatives do – namely, that these figures are still not correct insofar as the less-incomes will be much higher than currently estimated by you – then one can get about a sense of the dimension of what there is in income loss for the communities and countries and wherever this will affect. The reason why I doubt these figures – in association with many country politicians – is that your figures, as regards the less-incomes due to tax gifts – in order to express them now – still had to be revised upwards. I would like to point out, for example, the investment......increasing premium – thank you very much, Minister; very kind! – which has brought down 280 million instead of 100 million. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Increased premium!]] That is to say, one can assume, with good reason, that this amount will increase again among the municipalities and countries. Why is that so dramatic? – Because these are precisely the means, for example, which the communities also have at their disposal and which they are currently investing in infrastructure measures such as renovations, new construction of kindergartens, schools and so on – and these are very labour-intensive measures which are now, through these less-incomes in the regions, missing. Many of you will know from the communities that this very tight budget will lead to the need to postpone new buildings and renovations. And this, in turn, not only leads to children or students sitting in rooms where the plaster crumbles from the ceiling, because it is no longer being renovated, but also to the fact that there are much less jobs there than there could actually be. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, these are also funds that are spent in the communities for things such as the additional promotion of alternative energy. There are interesting figures from Vorarlberg: On behalf of the Vorarlberg State Government, it was stated that, for example, € 1 million of investments in renewable energy, say solar plants, would result in an investment effect of 17 years of employment. In contrast, if you are in private consumption, only eleven years will come out. In other words, this kind of support that the municipalities operate there is extremely relevant to the workplace and can bring a very strong impetus to the regional economy. That means: The investment of the countries and communities is an essential factor in creating and safeguarding jobs. If you with your tax reform are now causing these dramatic cuts in the incomes of countries and communities, you will also generate additional job losses and thus also higher unemployment in the regions. In this sense a proposal – because you always want to hear a proposal from the opposition –: Stop the financial hunger of the communities! Sit down a little less – just a little less! – on the promotion and support of corporations and large businesses, look at it a little more – that would have much more effect in terms of jobs – on small businesses and on the regional economy!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12001	The next speaker was Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12020	Three more words about Vienna – a federal country that makes the most of the federal miscarriage –: [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Neudeck]] The female employment rate in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen, is 5% higher than in the rest of Austria and thus raises the overall average. If that were not the case, we would look very sad! – That's a keyword. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, Childcare. Colleague Kuntzl mentioned it, but it is also the fact that we are absolutely top in Vienna, both in terms of the comprehensive offer and the quality of the care offer, and that in Vienna the social staggering goes to the point that a number of families who cannot afford it pay zero € for childcare in Vienna. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Neudeck]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Is this a fairy tale hour now?]] And third key: As with the adult workers, it is also true for apprentices that 4,000 out of 16 000 apprentices are commuting to Vienna. This means that a quarter of all apprentices are commuting because no apprenticeships can be found in their federal states. In addition, the city of Vienna will host 1,000 apprentices in 37 professions, record 290 apprentices each year and will increase its training network of courses to 900 from autumn onwards. – This is only at the beginning of Vienna. I would like to join with the apprentices and in youth training and youth education in general, because this is my topic, and it is an important issue. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Federal Minister Bartenstein must not be really proud that we have the second-lowest youth unemployment rate in the EU: If we look at the absolute figures, Mr. Federal Minister, it is... – [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] The lowest will be it, you have said, perhaps at the end of 2004; we have not yet. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: No,...!]] The Netherlands is better off than we are. – The fact is that we have some 56 000 young people between 15 and 25 years of age who are job-seekers who do not have work. This sum is terrifying because they are not alone: There are families behind that, parents behind it, there are life partnerships behind it! If you take these numbers two times and three times, you have to say that it has been very superfluous, as you have previously acted from the government bank, and it is embarrassing how little you take these numbers seriously, Federal Minister! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] I also criticise Her inadequacy to the Federal Minister for Education and Education, not at all taking place, is well-remarked. I do not see any cooperation going on to mean that we need about 4,000 places each year in middle and higher schools. The young people affected then push back into the labour market because they do not receive appropriate schools. I don't know. Don't you talk to each other? Don't you work together? Look Are you not referring to these thousands of young people who do not have a place for school each year, but who do not receive an apprenticeship, because these too are missing Mr Bundesminister? The number of places you have probably increased, but this is an emergency measure, not an overall package as we would like it to be. You have even increased this number before the summer – which is extraordinary, because normally you do so only in late autumn, if already fire is on the roof – but, Minister of the Federal Government, the number of job seekers also increases from year to year, from month to month! [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein]] Since you are from Black and Blue to the government, the number of unemployed has increased by 20 percent, but only 7 percent in the EU section. Therefore, we do not need to be proud to be among the “best” in the EU if we have an increase of such really terrifying percentages. To the apprenticeship gap 2003: You always have to look at at the end of a year, how the relationship between those who are looking for an apprenticeship and those who have really got one looks. This gap is enormously high at 10,000 – 10,400 even! In other words, we must ask ourselves the question, Minister of Economic Affairs: Why does the economy become less and less educated? [[Abg. Head: Isn't that right at all!]] Why the economy is offering fewer and fewer apprenticeships... – That is certainly true, because your €65 million you have used with the apprenticeship premium in 65 000 cases, Mr. Kopf, have not created any more apprenticeships. [[Abg. Head: It's not true!]] [[Abg. Head: Where do you see fewer teaching places? Where?]] They have rewarded with the casting pot plants that already train apprentices. [[Abg. Head: With what numbers? Where?]] This €65 million we could have used quite differently, because Zuckerl...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12181	Ladies and gentlemen, please! Let the speaker! – Then it would have to be constantly called in, even with others. [[Abg. Head: If you claim something false!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12233	Every fourth teaching relationship, which is also a fact, ladies and gentlemen, is dissolved, probably after the probationary period, but before the end of the teaching period. Indeed, it is not true that apprentices are supposed to be pragmatized, so to speak, that they are no longer loosened. Every fourth teaching relationship is dissolved! That is, the treatment of apprentices – and I am glad that there is still the protection that apprentices enjoy! – is not the way we wish. We need more quality in apprenticeship training, but absolutely no deviations from the current provisions of protection! There's plenty of suggestions. Our apprenticeship package is simply not put on the agenda of the Committee, although it contains very innovative proposals. In addition, you have a jewel, Mr. Federal Minister, which you hide: Your apprentice agent Egon Blum may not appear anywhere. I've been looking at the homepage. There are very innovative proposals to deal with this apprenticeship situation, which is not the best thing to do. [[Abg. May. Hakl: He's acting! You just have to go!]] But none of these proposals you have taken up, Mr Federal Minister, neither the proposal to link the teaching with Matura nor the other proposal to offer special training to young people who have problems in training. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Matura with teaching already exists!]] I'm just wondering why you don't let Egon Blum switch and roll! Finally, I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government groups and also to you, Minister of State, the following: If the Federal Government continues to do so little about unemployment, the population will soon make it unemployed!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12286	The next speaker is Mrs Marek. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12305	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, we should almost be accustomed to SPÖ's policy of uncertainty, but this does not make the whole less unpleasant. Today's debate, as we have had it so far, makes it clear once again that the SPÖ as a former chancellor party is only about lurking votes by panic and forgery of information. Mrs Silhavy, this is real coldness, as you deliberately incite the fears of the people and abuse them for your purposes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This will also become particularly clear in the current AK election in Vienna, I can give you an interesting example. To the members of the Chamber of Workers of Vienna, about two weeks ago, this so-called "!standpoint" was entitled: ‘Tumpel: Government needs to protect the labour market in EU enlargement”. [[Abg. May. Tancsits:... Forced contributions!]] It contains an extremely interesting passage, especially for those who know who voted in Parliament to protect jobs in Austria. I can read this passage to you briefly: "Many then want to find work in the EU, also in Austria. Because they can earn much more with us.” Then it goes on to say – and that's interesting! –: ‘The Board of Labour and Trade Unions have therefore imposed transitional periods,...’ [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] But the fact that the SPÖ, including the ÖGB President in Parliament, voted against will of course remain silent! Especially in Vienna – and Vienna is now an interesting example – it becomes particularly exciting when the SPÖ, who is ruling with all glory alone, probably because of its own failure, tries again and again to make the successful initiatives of the Federal Government bad and to speak badly. Vienna, even if you, Mrs Kuntzl, do not like it, is really an outsider here! The comparison with Vorarlberg is also a huge one, because of course you have to look at the relation from which it is assumed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] The Federal Government has – already explained – supported the labour market with various initiatives in recent years. Many federal states then took this up and successfully implemented it – which, of course, does not apply in any way to Vienna, which in turn makes Vienna a very meaningful example of so-called socio-democratic government and economic competence. In contrast to Upper Austria, where the number of employees increases every year, the figures are stagnating in Vienna. On the contrary, there are no more jobs in Vienna today than in the 1960s, and again in 2004 a reduction in the number of self-employed people is expected to be 2 800, while in Austria a plus of 12 200 is forecast. Due to the miserable education policy in Vienna, the city does an additional thing to make people's chances on the labour market no better. The attitude towards the education system in Vienna has, by the way, brought the red city council president Brandsteidl to the fore a long time ago by calling the Vienna City School Council SPÖ Headquarters and the Austrian schools recently as provincial schools. This is really a "fine" attitude, and that is significant, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Arrogance of power!]] [[Abg. Sburny: (in the direction of Abg. May. But you know each other well with the arrogance of power!]] One third of all unemployed people across the country – 34 percent – are registered in Vienna, and the increase in unemployment in Austria is 55 percent in Vienna. Of the approximately 19 000 long-term unemployed in Austria, more than half come from Vienna, namely 11 000. Vienna's unemployed are also much longer unemployed than in the Federal average, i.e. 136 days – compared to 101 days. In Tyrol it is an average of 67 days. As regards the location attractiveness of Vienna, one can say that Vienna is obviously a red cloth for economic operators. In Vienna, in contrast to the rest of Austria, where there are numerous resettlements, companies migrate. Just a few examples: Basic minus 800 employees; Unilever minus 2 500 employees since 1994 – among other things, has been transferred to other federal states; why well? – at Siemens there was a decommissioning of 100 employees in Vienna, but a new plant in Burgenland. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] Vienna has and continues to have the red lantern in both economic and employment growth and is in the final place of the federal ranking. Ladies and gentlemen! Future-oriented policy is not the SPÖ! On the contrary, you are trying, ladies and gentlemen, to force the price of the future of our children by shortsighted, populist measures. But not with us, we assume our responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12408	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 5 minutes speaking time will be desired. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12426	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Nuremberger, with his socialist comrades, today presents a urgent question to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour. That current unemployment in our country and its desirable reduction represent a challenge to this House, to the government coalition, to the Federal Government, is undoubtedly undisputed. If one reads this urgent request, one gets the impression that the Social Democrats had never made their contribution with decisive government responsibility! I would mention that Mr Nürnberger has been a member of this House since June 1984, but for him there is obviously no such thing as the nineties. At the same time, this request seeks to present it as if the SPÖ patent recipes in opposition against unemployment, but without – I say so – giving up these patent recipes. It is striking how great the efforts made in this present urgent request to put out the 44 000 job-seekers in training – as if the Federal Government wanted to hide them. In your urgent request, you call it “homed”, as well as being parked or, as I mean, hidden, as an additional unemployed person who is not expected to appear in unemployment statistics. That's not the way it is! This may have been the case in the 1990s. If it were to allow me time, I would like to give you some examples of the training that was carried out at the time, whose meaning I cannot derive from today, while this federal government is trying to give the training workers a better qualification: a better level of training, which is useful and correct especially in an enlarged Europe with increasing competition – and, of course, also in the labour market. Mr Nürnberger, I think you are misusing correct statistical values by your particular way of presenting these statistical values – that is to say, distorting them. If you are talking about an increase in unemployment in Austria and in your urgent question point out that a European excellence has been achieved here, let me give you the following example: a very theoretical: In the case of an unemployed person in Austria – we know that there would be no such thing – another unemployed person in 2003 would mean an enormous increase of 100 percent in 2004. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Really theoretical!]] I think this is a distorted representation – and you have certainly made it quite aware. You have also not made international comparisons, namely not as part of your urgent request or as shown in the request. Ladies and gentlemen! Now, on the actual statistical values, the figures of unemployment: In 1998 this number was 237,794. Now I am saying something that seems very essential to me, which has not been addressed in connection with the number, but very probably in connection with unemployment, namely GDP growth. You from SPÖ, when you were in government responsibility, had this huge number of unemployed in a growth of 3.5 percent of gross domestic product. In comparison: In 2002, a lower figure, by 5,000 fewer unemployed – with an increase of 0.9 percent – and by 3,000 more unemployed in 2003 with an increase of 0.7 percent. In the international or EU comparison, Austria is taking second place with 4.5% – the second lowest unemployment rate in the European Union – to Luxembourg! It is true that the EU is identified, or the EU assumes in its spring forecast, that Austria will take the lead in the future, i.e. the lowest unemployment rate. Nevertheless, I say: Every unemployed person is too much! But all efforts will also be made by the Federal Government and by the government coalition to further reduce the number of unemployed compared to the low number of unemployed.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12466	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for Weinzinger to the speaker's desk. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. The Group's remaining speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12484	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! It's nice, Minister Bartenstein, if you're satisfied, because what I could say to your answer to the urgent question was that in the tenor, I have written it in keywords, it was as follows: [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein]] You're successful! Let's go! It's all right! Run! I can only say that you are satisfied with the way the government works, at least I have not heard a single point where you would clearly see need for improvement and where perhaps a question of opposition has been raised quite rightly. It only raises the question: Are these approximately nine and a half thousand new unemployed people, i.e. those who have joined them since April of the previous year, also satisfied? What I would particularly like to stress is that of these nine and a half thousand new unemployed people, about seven and a half thousand are women, so we have a dramatic increase in female unemployment among these new unemployed people. I ask you: Will a woman who finds that she no longer gets a job and is now considered to be difficult to mediate at 35 will be particularly satisfied with her policy? I would also like to ask you: What does a youth or a youth of yours have here again in the throes of conviction announced on a teaching post? – You can’t even put that on the bread, you said, with confidence. This guarantee can easily be delivered full-bodied. For the many job seekers who are looking for a job for themselves, this is a hearty little comfort. [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Wittauer.]] I would also like to ask you how satisfied all the many women who come out of the childcare allowance relationship and who find with horror that, unfortunately, their employment protection expired half a year ago, with first of all information policy, but above all with your labour market policy, which you have pursued in this way. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But this has been known!]] I have not yet said anything about the large amount of hidden unemployment! This concerns those young people who have disappeared somewhere in the statistics and who no longer appear as teaching jobs seeking or training, those women, especially those who are already searching from themselves. They had to find that the AMS could not convey a job to them, because there is no one there or because the framework conditions do not fit, or those who have been parked in any trainings or who have perhaps left there, let alone the many other forms of hidden unemployment. I now ask you, honestly, not only in the interests of the unemployed, but also in the interests of others: What, do you think, do the many people who are little busy or have part-time employment, but cannot live on it? Do you not believe that every person – and every woman, like every man, must have the opportunity to fight his own livelihood through work? Wouldn't that be a topic for you as Minister of Labour, Mr. Minister? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I now pick up a question that has been raised by Mr Mitterlehner, who has clearly always been less patient, before – I almost suspect that his memory is also about as far as his patience – and simply list some of the measures that the opposition has repeatedly proposed from this speaker's mouth in relation to what one could do, i.e. some of the opposition's proposals for solutions. Perhaps I can also send them to Mr Mitterlehner in writing – and perhaps you will find it better: Some of the measures we have proposed would be the removal of the amount of child care allowance, the extension of child care protection for the entire period of employment of the child care allowance, the extension of childcare facilities – by the way also an employment effect, because there would be jobs there, quite a lot – a special programme for re-entry for women, but also for men, after the child break, a qualification and promotion programme for women on the labour market; the link between economic promotion and the presence of women support plans in companies, support for women in the start-up phase and so on. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] Unfortunately, I don't have the time to really do everything that the opposition has already led to the meeting. What I can see, however, is that there is not only a clear debate about what is the right measure or the right path, but also that, I believe, we are clearly different in the objective. – While it is my concern and our concern to ensure the objective of a life-supporting job opportunities for women and men and young people and young people, I believe that in you, Mr Minister, for example, the capacity as Minister of Economic Affairs is much more pronounced than that of the Minister of Labour and that your objectives are rather those macroeconomic strategies, mostly those that are rather less sustainable and short-term, and above all that they are clearly pursuing a different concept. It does not seem to you to be so unfair if the women are not in employment but work “only”, that is, unpaid for care, childcare and family care, and on the labour market as female competitors. A final comment to the address of Mr Nürnberger: I would like to see the problems of women's employment, which you have mentioned in your speech, reflected in the scope of the issues and not only in the same extent as the Semmering Tunnel. But I ask everyone in this House to ensure that men like women, to the same extent as the men, have the opportunity to earn a good living.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12557	Mr Walch is now speaking. Desirable speaking time: 4 minutes; this also corresponds to what the liberals still have at rest speaking time. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12575	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High unemployment rates are really not satisfactory, no one can be satisfied with them. We are accustomed to polemizing from the SPÖ, but, Mr Nürnberger, I have learned today that you have been a member of the National Council since 1984, and I must already ask why it has come so far. Where were colleagues and trade union presidents from the Social Democrats, when the good times of the high-economy money were announced, instead of how normal it should be in the good times of the high-economy to set aside a bit of basket money and prepare for worse times? – Save in time, then you’re in distress! – that’s how it should be! Dear colleague Nürnberger, I have to help you get back to the jumps by asking you: Who owes Austria so much? Who then had the greatest pleas to make? I'm not saying what you sold, but one thing I have to say to you: The “consumer” you led has experienced such a plea that he had to lock up. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thousands of workers have lost their jobs. Then create yourself here...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12609	Mr Nürnberger, you can still speak, there is still time to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12624	You're asking us to do something. Let's say, We have done a lot, but unfortunately the SPÖ, including your littleness, has always voted against! Tax reform, first stage – Nuremberg voted against! Economic recovery programmes – Nürnberger voted against! – There is already the question: Why? What do you want at all? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Or: the situation around the poverty line. Socio-Democrats turn to the speaker's desk here and say: In Austria, two have to go to work to be able to afford an apartment at all, and much more. – Yes, how many privileges in this context, which you built up at the time, has this Federal Government already depleted? Next: Where have you been as a trade unionist, Mr Nürnberger, to ensure that those who live below the poverty line do not have such a low wage? Where were you in the high economy to negotiate a decent collective agreement? Where were you in the high economy? Why do women still partially receive 650, 700 or 800 € monthly wages? Where were you there? [[Abg. Reheis: Where were you?]] Your countryman and trade union president of Bau/Holz, colleague Driemer, has also done a nice piece: We will decide tomorrow in this House the largest tax reform of the Second Republic, and by the way, Mr Dremer has about three or four months ago – of course before the Chamber of Workers' Elections! – together with the construction, it was decided that the construction workers would no longer have the great separation on holidays and on short Fridays. The construction workers, to whom the legal, collective agreement is granted, will become 1st. May earn between 600 € and 800 € per year less, net less. – Col. Nürnberger, talk to Col. Dremer! I think we have to send colleagues to the negotiations again in the future, and it is better to do so. – That’s the reality! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Next: How many programmes have been decided in this House? – Very many! Three economic recovery programmes with a volume of over €4 billion. Where were you? Just to put yourself here, to insure the population, just to regret that, I think, is not the right step. My wish to all,...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12677	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12698	...to all economic operators: Put employees in place and give young people a chance to find an apprenticeship! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12725	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. There are 4 minutes of speaking time available to his group. – Please, you are at the floor, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12744	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Now I do not want to focus on the answers of the Federal Minister and do not object to him anywhere, that is not my intention at all, but on the eve of the decision of the so-called biggest tax reform of all time – that I do not even mean polemically, you may really believe it – it is once again a need to light up the larger contexts. Of course – and thank God we are even better placed in Austria than elsewhere, I do not want to contradict you either – it is obvious to highlight the sector-specific problems on the labour market, but one must also be clear, and so I say immediately for tomorrow: After the game is before the game! After this so-called major tax reform, we will have to address the real issues of the future, including employment policy, and I will now also address the SPÖ in this matter, because we have only been able to get closer to it in the recent past, and may say: It is simply and decisively in Austria, especially, about the wage-related taxes that now apply to work; I do not deliberately say ‘low-paid costs’. Tomorrow's gonna be a huge chance. We are distributing 3 billion in the summa summa system with the so-called first stage, but nothing is happening in this area. Now the question is simply: Do you believe in employment effects or not? The economists too often depend on speculation, but one thing is certain: From a certain level, the total cost of work has an impact on job demand, i.e. on employment! There is Austria's tragic world champion. We have managed, even if you always stress that over the last few years, a bit of a bit has been cut down on GDP: We're at the top! For example, we are not at the forefront of the profit taxation of companies that give you such great attention. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Not that we would not have gone from 34 per cent to 29 per cent and could seal the calculation base in such a way that taxes from this area are not completely lost, but with the group tax system that you are setting up is only doubled. But that will now be too technical for what I want to say now; perhaps tomorrow will be space and time for it. The point is – and we all know that here – that it cannot continue. Each time this “thing” is conjured, and again a huge chance is frowned. It is my concern today to say this because tomorrow, as far as the specific employment aspect is concerned, is likely to go down. I say this in front of a second background: This morning, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your support. Yes, the level of these charges is a problem in Austria! It is a big problem, namely, employment policy! The sustainability of the tax failures that we have in any case in the case of an overrun reduction in corporate income tax is also skeptical, because it is also a second aspect, namely the maintenance of the scope of the public hands. This also has an employment impact: either they invest themselves or they give incentives to investment. For example: Energy offensive, other areas, you know that. One can also understand which areas should be particularly stimulated, but below the line remains: Too much money – big throw – is being thrown out, which in total brings too little, and especially employment policy does not bring what you promise!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12801	Mr Riepl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. His group's remaining speaking time: 4 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12821	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! The statements made by some of my previous speakers force me to make a few clarifications on behalf of my group, to make a few comments. Mrs Partik-Pablé! Vienna could not operate, was your core point. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not Vienna! The SPÖ, I said!]] You said Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No!]] That's your problem: you say something and you mean something else. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I'll show you then!]] That's the problem. That is why we are so hard on you, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The fact is, and look at that: great approval of the population of Vienna to the SPÖ city government! Look If you accept the consent of Austria to your group, then you know why you are here, for example, in such a small number and this SPÖ majority exists in Vienna. – That’s so simple! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's easy to say: Every second company, which comes from abroad to Austria, settles in Vienna, chooses Vienna as a location. 39 out of 82 farms last year have benefited from this site advantage, and that also means 1 000 new jobs. – This is only as an argument and as an example. Mr Marek of the ÖVP said that she was very well aware of the responsibility, but at the same time she thought it was not right for Grundig to respond. I ask you, Mrs Marek: Where were you when the employees needed political help in the first place? Where was the Federal Minister? – He didn’t get a look at Grundig. He didn't ask how he could help. It was the trade unions, the workers' chambers and the city, which at least provided social security, a social plan, a foundation – politics has just watched! – This is the problem, and it should be pointed out on such an occasion too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Walch from the Freedom Party, who asked where Members of Nuremberg had been in recent years, may I say: Mr Walch, I'm telling you: He was there when we managed to make a low unemployment rate in Austria. He was there when we managed to form a social state that we are all proud of and that envys us in Europe. Mr Nürnberger – and you should also know that, Mr Walch – was at the forefront when it came to creating income issues in our country, making compromises with the economy, negotiating and seeking common solutions. On the question of the flexibility of working time, Mr Nürnberger was also active both here and in the trade union. - You forgot. Better said, you know, just: Of course, it's not popular to say this. Dear colleague Walch, where were you at the time? [[Abg. Walch: At the base!]] Where were you then? – That’s a very interesting question! Where were you? Where are you now, and where will you be tomorrow? – If I look at the results of the workers' chamber elections in your federal state, where you have joined as a top candidate, I can say: On the basis of that we can calculate where you will be tomorrow! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ideology of this federal government is becoming increasingly clear: more market and little state! – More market means more and more unemployment for more people and fewer apprenticeships. At a time when managers are rewarded when you are in employment reduction, and the competent Minister of Labour sees itself only as Minister of Economic Affairs and not as Minister of Labour, we will not be able to achieve any improvement in the employment situation in our country with this Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a Minister and a Federal Government for the Economy – and no Minister for Labour and for Workers in our country! The Austrians – I am sure of this – will give the right answer to this at the next elections of this Federal Government, that is, the Austrian People's Party and the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12935	There is no one to mention on this point. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ollinger, colleagues and colleagues on the establishment of an unemployment prosecution. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request does not find the majority of the House and is therefore rejected. Short debate on the reply to the question 1477/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e12974	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology with the order number 1477/AB. The answer to the question was distributed, so a reading is inadequate. We are going into the debate. I would like to draw attention to the Rules of Procedure: First speakers 10 minutes, no more than 5 minutes, opinions by members of the Federal Government or state secretaries should not last more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mrs Lichtenberger to open the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13005	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start my speech today with a compliment, with a compliment to the unfortunately absent transport minister. [[General acknowledgment and brawls]] In response to his question, the Minister of Transport has clearly confirmed a great truth that we have always tried to clarify, namely that the railway projects in the CSF are not financed with the exception of the 1a package. Thank you, Minister, for these clear words also in absence! Now, however, I come to the somewhat delicate part. The written question, whose answer we are now discussing, concerns the circumvention of the obligation to carry out an environmental impact assessment on large projects for the first time. It is about the railway line through the Gasteinertal, which has already been mentioned for the first time in the 1994 Accession Treaty. This is a very interesting and important project. No environmental impact assessment has been planned for this route, and I am now coming to speak a little bit on the details, and there were quite surprises in the answer to the question. According to the European Union Directives, this project is subject to environmental impact assessment, and this must be clearly stated. We have asked questions to the Minister for the Environment and to the Minister for Transport, as it is now about this EIA duty, which is obviously not being complied with. We got two answers to that. The Minister for the Environment, quite correct and within the meaning of the law, answers with reference to § 23 of the 2000 EIA Act that the construction of new railway lines or their sub-sections is, at least, subject to EIA. - Yes, it is! There comes the Minister of Transport of the Road and tells something completely different. He answered the clear question as to whether an EIA obligation existed, as follows: It deals with a series of subprojects that are made in a row, depending on how much money there is. That is why this is no longer an overall project and therefore not an EIA requirement. A house builder, who first builds the foundation, then saves a few years, then sets up the first floor, then saves a few years again, and so on and so on, according to this logic the building permit could be spared, because at the end of the day it is only about subordinate components. [[Abg. Ellmauer: Complete nonsense!]] It is interesting, however, that the Minister seems to be aware of the problem of this matter, but he withdraws behind the country of Salzburg and says that in the country of Salzburg it has been announced that one would like to apply for an EIA, but this request has not yet been received. In other words, the "Hauslbauer" would say the other way round: If the neighbor wants and requires me to apply for a building permit, I might do it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an improper way of dealing with the environmental impact assessment. - That's not how it is! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have also requested the debate on the question of the answer to the question, because I should like to finally hear clear words, for example by the Secretary of State, on the question: Is an EIA now being made for this overall project: yes or no, and where are we now? Why I look so closely at it, I can also explain it to you, namely: The whole thing is not an individual case. Austria is now developing a tradition of circumventing this directive, and there is a model example of this at the B 100 in Carinthia. There, too, projects have been phased together for as long as there was anything to avoid the obligation to carry out an environmental impact assessment. This case has already occurred: The Commission has sent a letter of formal notice and has found that the obligation to carry out an environmental impact assessment must not be circumvented by quantification. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What kind of building do you mean?]] This is, as it were, the sluggish model, namely: You're pretending to be just a little detour and just next to it there's the next little detour, and then you're gonna build two or three things back there. The fact that this is in reality an overall project that needs to be examined in its impact is clear by law. Ladies and gentlemen! What bothers me is that the environmental impact assessment is not – for example, it has clearly demonstrated the environmental impact assessment at the Inntal railway route – an instrument for preventing projects, but for optimizing projects. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What kind of building do you mean?]] If one makes an environmental impact assessment in a large project from the outset, i.e. if one examines the possible effects and consequences at the same time, then one may be able to save a lot of money, because – let's look at the Semmering project!, let's look at many other projects! – the objections come later anyway, and then the administrative court must say: Stop, legal rules have not been complied with. Ladies and gentlemen! This government must take care of environmental impact assessments. It obviously does not care about it at the moment. That is why, Mr State Secretary, to you the question Do you take this duty seriously or would you rather join the FPÖ Councillor Dörfler? [[Abg. Wittauer: He's not here!]] As regards the B 100, the Commission explained: For me, Austrian law goes before EU law! So: What does the EU do to me? We're there, but I don't really care! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's not true! Carinthian law goes before EU law! Bad research!]] I can quote this in detail if you want. For me, Austrian law goes before EU law and for Carinthia, I have every conflict with Brussels! - That's what Landesrat Dörfler said. There is no conflict with Brussels, ladies and gentlemen. The conflict exists in connection with the environment and with the arrivals. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Worm.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: We are at the Tauernbahnbahn, not at the B 100!]] This is one of the examples in which the obligation to examine environmental compatibility has, as it were, already been avoided. Now you do the same thing in the Gastein Valley, and I don't accept it. Here rail and road are to be treated equally. Here there is no slip out of the obligation to examine the consequences of a large project with the argument: Let's close our eyes and pretend we don't see anything, then nothing happens! – These are processes that ultimately beat the project itself. Ladies and gentlemen! In a well-executed environmental impact assessment, it usually succeeds in taking into account the concerns and concerns of the avians into account, so that the project can be optimised. I would like to see this law, which has finally been passed in this House – including your majority – respected. For me, this question is about... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] You will then also be able to revise your prejudices in relation to the fact that I am only excited about the road, but not with regard to the rail. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: We have no prejudice.]] [[Abg. Wittauer:... European solutions!]] It should be useful, yes, it would be useful to carry out this examination. If you do not accept this sense of meaning, you will at least be guided by the law adopted in this House, in which it has been clarified that major projects require an environmental impact assessment. Ladies and gentlemen! The far-reaching consequences for the arrivings. They are either given a damp handshake before the election and the promise of noise protection – after the run-up they can shape it in the hair – or they have indictable rights. I am concerned about these rights for avians in procedures concerning large projects. It's not about prevention. I want this project. That's a smart project. It is about fulfilling the legal obligation to examine. The time lag, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties you believe to be able to reach here has long since taken place, namely at the moment when they said: You do not have any viable projects in the rail sector and can't build anything with them! You already delayed the project back then. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] If you had used this time to go through the EIA, we would have been so far today that we could achieve a smart and good railway link, also an ecologically compatible rail link in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13184	Mr Mag (S). — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. Kukacka. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13202	Mr President. High house! In principle, I would like to say that, as you know, the traffic flows in Austria are constantly growing, and that is why the relocation of road transport to the environmentally friendly modes of transport Rail is one of the major transport policy concerns of this Federal Government. That is why this Federal Government has also decided to extend the Tauernbahn accordingly. All the data available to us and the studies we have commissioned show that the expansion of this route is very important in the future, so that freight transport can be transferred to the rail in the future. I also note that a mediation procedure was carried out in the course of the planning of the extension of this route. This is a procedure that uses the findings of conflict and participation research and is trying to bring the conflict parties together into a common conflict settlement. In this mediation process, all parties were represented: in addition to the mayors of the municipalities of Bad Gastein, Bad Hofgastein and Dorfgastein, also the planning departments of the ÖBB, the state environmental prosecutorship, the representatives of the citizens' initiatives, the Alpine Association, the Kur- und Tourismusverband, as well as the representatives of the Ministry of Transport and the Office of the Salzburger Landesregierung. There are essentially comprehensive agreements. The submissions by the public authorities regarding construction permits and water-law authorisations are fully in line with the mediation procedure carried out in this context. The approvals for the individual components and construction sections have also been carried out according to the findings and results of the mediation procedure. There are also similar agreements between the ÖBB and these two municipalities as regards the route to be constructed in the territory of the municipality of Bad Gastein and the market municipality of Bad Hofgastein. The submissions carried out by the ÖBB are fully in line with the results of the final report presented by the Mediation Forum in 2001. As far as the environmental impact assessment is concerned, I would like to note that projects or sub-projects are only planned to that extent and submitted to the EIA, as the prospect of implementation also exists for this purpose according to economic possibilities. These projects were submitted in accordance with the subprojects. I would like to stress that this has also been determined by common accord in the course of the mediation procedure and also in accordance with the agreements between the municipalities of Bad Gastein and Bad Hofgastein. For the environmental impact declaration and for the environmental impact assessment, there are very specific clear legal provisions. The competent EIA authorities are in one case the country Salzburg. In any event, the State of Salzburg or the Salzburg Environmental Procuratorate has not yet submitted a notice to the BMVIT, to the Railway Authority, whether an EIA has to be carried out for this project “Angerschluchtbrücke – Bahnhof Angertal”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] I note that there is no question in this respect as to whether an EIA needs to be implemented for these sub-projects. The ÖBB has also not yet submitted any relevant documents for the environmental impact declaration. The ÖBB are applicants and must provide appropriate documentation for the environmental impact assessment. This has not yet been done. In other words, it could and did not yet have to be determined by the authority whether and for which sections an environmental impact assessment is actually carried out. I would like to expressly support this. This decision is still open and not final. Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖBB is of course obliged to comply with the statutory provisions. This also applies to noise protection, namely the Immissions Protection Regulation. These requirements will also be met if the above-mentioned construction projects fall within their scope. In addition, a number of measures were also carried out in the municipal areas of Dorfgastein and Bad Hofgastein in the context of the reorganisation of noise-technical stocks, a total of ten measures. That's why I'm holding it: We are also spending a euro on noise protection measures and noise protection walls in Austria for every euro we invest in the expansion of rail infrastructure. This means that €500 000 per kilometer of rail is used for infrastructure and €500 000 for noise protection. Finally, Mrs Lichtenberger: I note once again that the Federal Government is making a clear commitment to the implementation of the general transport plan adopted in 2002. It is a very important building block that will further increase the competitiveness and attractiveness of the economic location. For this purpose, €45 billion has been set up and planned, which are divided as follows: € 15 billion for road construction, € 30 billion for the expansion of the rail, about € 200 million for the expansion of the Danube. You see, therefore, that we have a very clear priority for rail construction and we clearly assume that there is an increased need for follow-up in this area, which we also implement accordingly. We want to expand the high-level road network, we want to close existing gaps in the road network and in the rail sector. Above all, we want to expand rail as environmentally compatible modes of transport, seeking higher customer service, greater efficiency and an increase in passenger and freight transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13273	Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary. The next speaker is Mr Haubner. All speakers now have 5 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13296	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lichtenberger has already mentioned it: With the EU Accession Treaty, Austria has committed itself to the expansion of the rail and thus also to the dual-track extension of the Tauernbahnbahn. Due to the traffic overload of the north-south connections, this project is also of particular importance to us in Salzburg with a view to shifting traffic from road to rail. Already in 1996, the ÖBB presented this project of the two-track extension of the Tauernbahn in the Gastein valley. This is an existing route, which is to be extended by a second track. At that time, much of the Gastein population expressed concerns about the expansion, and the fronts were quite hardened at that time too. Principal differences of opinion and procedural questions aggravated the existing conflict between the ÖBB project promoter and those involved in the Gastein Valley. There was hardly any more a basis for a critical and objective discussion. The example with the neighbours mentioned earlier is not quite correct, I think, because there was suddenly the willingness of all those involved to start almost at the hour zero. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] This was the process with the aim of finding a common solution for the high-performance route in the Gastein valley. All concerned were aware of the basic need for this two-track extension of the railway. It was then very gratifying that a consensus solution for the expansion of the Tauernbahn could be found in an example – which really must be mentioned – for the first time in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It should not be forgotten that this mediation procedure cost more than €200 000, in which both the Federal Ministry of Transport, the ÖBB, the Land of Salzburg and the municipalities of Bad Gastein and Bad Hofgastein took part. Again, the interest of all in a satisfactory solution to this transport project is evident. 15 full-day Forum meetings and 24 working-group meetings with great approval from all parties were held. The results were recorded in a contract – but you know that anyway – between the parties involved. The subsequent administration by the ÖBB corresponds to the results of this mediation procedure. The Secretary of State has practically carried out the details of this EIA procedure, which is how it should be done. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger:...! That was mediation!]] According to today's discretion, future authorities will also comply with these requirements. There is an agreement between the ÖBB and the two municipalities of Bad Gastein and Bad Hofgastein regarding the route to be constructed. I believe that through this mediation procedure, the ÖBB has greatly increased the cost framework for route management and environmental and safety measures. If you look through the list of the noise protection catalogue, you can see that noise protection walls have already been built in Dorfgastein, that they are under construction and that many will follow in the next two years. The same applies to the area around Bad Hofgastein. Even your green countrymen Heidi Tab requests: “The expansion of the Tauernbahn must at last be a priority.” It likes to see the rail expansion supplemented by loading stations and further railway improvements. I think the project should be pushed forward. The Federal Government – the Secretary of State has carried it out – has given a clear signal in the General Transport Plan for the expansion of the rails. Thus, the total investment volume in the amount of €45 billion is €30 billion in the expansion of the rail. We also benefit from the Tauernbahn project in our state of Salzburg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13348	Next speaker is Mrs Scharer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13366	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary Kukacka, your statements simply do not vote, as far as the Salzburg country's motion for a resolution is concerned – it has already been submitted. You have, I think, a decision to make within six weeks, so the ball lies with the Ministry or the Minister. These six weeks seem to have not been observed. In this case you were given a three-week deadline. [[Abg. May. Worm: Up-to-date!]] - That's what you're saying. I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the government for the applause, because it is indeed the case that this project is already under Minister Caspar One thing was started. He has also installed this mediation group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] One was for Caspar A very important thing – I think that is exactly what is missing in this procedure –: It was the highest commandment to inform everyone involved, but above all the people very well! In the meantime, there has been half a dozen transport ministers and a transport minister, who is surprised that people in the Gasteinertal are increasingly losing confidence in this matter. Through this mediation group, the high-performance line of the Tauernachse and thus a very important North-South connection has been negotiated for years. The agreement is open to all parties involved. The mediation process has been completed more or less successfully, with the motto: If built, then as decided together! Due to their lack of information policy, the population and the citizens' initiative – legitimately – fear that their concerns will not be sufficiently respected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] The project is suspected of preventing or avoiding environmental impact assessment. The population, the immediate residents and the citizens' initiatives have a right to information and expect clear positions, but they also expect a clear commitment from the Federal Government to ensure that the funds are built, and above all the information on when construction is started. Mr State Secretary! The Land of Salzburg confesses itself to the high performance line in the Gasteinertal, but also admits that new conditions need to be clarified and discussed, but there must not be delays in environmental impact assessments. We are also committed to an environmental impact assessment. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Mr State Secretary! The negative effects of the ÖBB reform are already noticeable. Where does an open dialogue between federal government, country, ÖBB – you don't seem to be interested either – take place, population and locals that would be necessary, especially at this project in Bad Gastein, to renegotiate according to the current detail problems? [[State Secretary Mag. Kukacka talks with an employee]] This dialogue does not take place! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to take the heavy road from the road seriously if you want to protect our environment and in the case of Gastein a spa region, if you want to have the rapid expansion of the North-South connection and if you are particularly interested in the concerns of the population in the affected regions, you act!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13431	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13449	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Lichtenberger, the only one you are doing here is to ‘get out’ on a citizens’ initiative, even more frightened and even more uncertain. But you know very well: In Europe, the project has not only been mentioned, it is one of the most important North-South connections, and Austria has committed itself to adapting this route in the Accession Treaty, Protocol 9. It's a transit corridor. It is therefore an obligation and is not just mentioned or merely mentioned. So we cannot deal with it as we want, but we have committed ourselves to implementing it. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No one has disputed that!]] If the EIA, the detailed projects are questioned, I will tell you the following: This is not an intolerable or abnormal state, but a legal state – one has adhered to it. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Mrs Scharer said something – and I thank her for that – earlier: [[Abg. May. Worm: With UVPs you have a bit of a problem!]] The mediation procedure was successfully completed. But then you can't say in the second sentence: Yes, it wasn't that successful! because then people will still be insecure. So either one or the other. Mediation makes sense not only to inform people, but to achieve results together. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You said you wanted the information when the subprojects started and when they were completed. I'd like to give it to you. I chose this extra because it's important. [[Abg. Scharer: The population needs that!]] People want to know, as well as you as Members. The two-track expansion of the Tauernbahn has been in progress for many years, we know, several projects have already been implemented and some are in planning or construction: Track development Brandstatt–Loiparn: around €59.3 million, completion probably already in 2004. You know that! As it was said before, there is no money in the hand and we do not know how to spend it for transit: We know exactly! I'll give you the numbers! We know how important this Tauernbahn track is! Construction of the line Schlossbachgraben–Angertal: around 10.9 million €, completed in 2006; Railway station conversion Böckstein: around €8.9 million, completion was recently; safety measures in the Tauerntunnel: about €16.3 million, completion 2004; Route expansion Mallnitz–Lindisch: around 118,2 million €, completion was already done; Route extension Kolbnitz–Mühldorf-Möllbrücke: around €36.2 million, completion 2006; and so on. The problem in the Gasteinertal is, of course, the two-track extension of the northern ramp in the area of Bad Gastein and Bad Hofgastein, which we know is the subject of mediation. As we have heard, this mediation procedure was successful, otherwise it would not be said by the Social Democrats. The result was an extremely expensive tunnel solution – you will certainly have to talk about it. But what has already been decided and contained is the renewal of the Angertal Bridge, which is implemented in accordance with the requirements of the mediation procedure. In the package 1b from 2007 onwards, the remaining two-track expansion in the area of Bad Hofgastein is planned with € 47 million. Only in Package 2 from 2012 is the Bad Gastein tunnel planned with € 285 million. These are funds that are very good, I say, not only benefit the population, but also positive for transit. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But are not budgeted, Mr. Colleague! Are not budgeted!]] Tunnels are expensive, but they will also be built there. I would like to tell you the following because the people are at our heart and noise protection is always very important to our Minister: noise protection costs – I just mention two examples –: Village Gastein: around €2.4 million has been used; Bad Hofgastein: around €3 million, which is a total of €5.4 million. So with you, millions are nothing at all! – We are trying to implement projects for people. To say only polemically: There's a citizens' initiative again, that's fine, it's doing the work for me, I'll just sit on it and say that we've always been for it!, that's not right. I have to ask which Europeans are the Greens. We have a European commitment, we have a commitment to Austria – we want to fulfil it and we fulfil it – even without your consent, hopefully with your consent, but that will probably not exist because you are running this kind of foaming policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13541	The last speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13559	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I have to get some real air now because I'm so surprised – really so surprised! – how the Secretary of State is able to produce himself here and in peace to claim facts that simply lack any correctness. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Facts!]] That's really amazing. I wouldn't trust that, honestly. You have to expect us to know this and to be able to disprove what you are saying here: for example, that the country of Salzburg is sparse. As the colleague Scharer has already correctly said, the country of Salzburg is not stingy! The documents for environmental impact assessment have been in Vienna for some time now. And I have to tell you, these are extensive documents. It almost can't be that the Minister has come by. The citizens' initiatives have told me that the whole suitcase is full. I would also like to talk about this possibility of disbanding. This is particularly infammous, because people have been promised that there will be no quantification, but an overall project. You are, of course, already very uncertain. The second fact that I have to think about is that you say, Mr State Secretary, that the general transport plan already provides for this expansion. Yes for whom and for what? For Bad Hofgastein, there is something in the general traffic plan, but not for Bad Gastein. Bad Gastein should only get information about how it continues in 2012 at all. We do not know whether the funds will be available or still exist until then. That means you scatter sand into people's eyes, and they react so sensitively to it. Mr Wittauer said, after the introduction of the speech by Mr Lichtenberger, that she would not have done anything about it. I have to give you some advice, Mr President: Hold one hand on the ear, so that the content that goes into the other ear can also turn a round in the head. The head is round so you can think. Otherwise, this will go through very quickly and possibly unabsorbed, if nothing is between them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We're not sitting here on any car on it. The fact is that the Bad Gastein citizens' initiative has turned to us, the Greens, with the request, yet again, to examine the full details of the competent authorities, to review the letters already written, namely those of the then head of state Dr. Schausberger as well as those of Minister Gorbach, and finally to ensure clarity. Something else happens, which has been successfully prevented by this complex mediation procedure: Social dissatisfaction arises, because in the meantime the impression is that they are to be played against each other. It was precisely the purpose and purpose of the mediation procedure to avoid creating this social dissatisfaction. And it's worth spending money because you save something afterwards. If you say that this may become too expensive, I have to tell you the following: We have asked the Minister the very specific question as to how he assesses the fact that in the Bad Gastein-Bad Hofgastein region more than twice as many revenues are generated each year than the overall project would cost according to ÖBB, and that these revenues would be at risk of increasing noise problems in a spa region due to incomplete implementation. You have to say that. We note that this government and in particular the FPÖ in this government are not particularly interested in the environment and the implementation of public concerns. I can only say that Hans Kronberger almost makes us sorry now when he is so disavowed by his political party friends, by his party friends in Vienna and Carinthia, for one thing is clear: Environmental policy and an environmental transport policy in Europe are particularly badly abolished by the EIA and the Freeman.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13604	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. 4. Point Report by the National Defence Committee on Amendment 304/A by Mr Walter Murauer, Dr Reinhard Eugen Bösch, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 2002 Military Award Act (459 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13634	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Desirable time: 6 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13658	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, the National Council is voting on a federal law amending the 2002 Military Award Act. In the future, military signs will also be awarded to contract staff of the Federal Government in special units of the Federal Army for foreign use. This means those soldiers who, within the framework of international operations, participate in peacekeeping measures in Europe as so-called KIOP forces. These Austrian forces for international operations make a decisive contribution within the EU intervention force. As early as the previous year, we made it possible to pay a delivery premium and a kioP supplement, making use of such a force more attractive for young men. The financial improvement made by this law is already leading to the fact that more soldiers for foreign operations are reporting in individual barracks. Now we also need to improve these soldiers in relation to the Military Award Act, because it cannot be that Austrian soldiers serving abroad do not have the same rights to military awards as Austrian soldiers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] KIOP soldiers are often used under more difficult or even more dangerous conditions. I believe that this courage and service to the country must also be rewarded. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria committed itself in November 2000 under the EU's Common Foreign and Security Policy to participating in the development of military crisis management capacity. We have already committed ourselves to participating in the common foreign and security policy with the SPÖ as a government party in 1998. Unfortunately, it is not enough for the EU to deal mainly with the financial, social and humanitarian aspects of international relations. We must not leave the US alone to deal with the external and security problems of world policy. The European Union's common foreign and security policy has emerged from these considerations. And as part of the European Union, it is also our duty to take part in these security measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria therefore has a contribution to make to security planning in Europe with 1,500 soldiers. Occupational soldiers or time soldiers undertake to participate voluntarily in foreign operations within a period of three years for six months. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a service which every individual KIOP soldier does not only to Austrian citizens, but also to all EU citizens. These achievements are, as I mentioned earlier, as well as special awards to these soldiers. Of course, these awards are not the most important thing that matters to a soldier. The most important thing is that he can return to his family in good health. Nevertheless, I say that awards belong to this and are a visible sign of recognition by the Austrian state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At present, Austrian soldiers are involved in twelve international missions. The most important sites from the presence of the troops are Kosovo and the Golan. This peacekeeping is important in order to allow people there a safe life and to prevent refugee flows. 38 different military signs can be awarded in Austria to a soldier, from the Grand Star of honor to the merits of the Republic to the military medal in Bronze. No matter what awards a soldier receives, for him it is always a great honor to serve his country and the people there. But an award is not only a special honor in the military field. Awards are always a confirmation of good performance and an incentive to give even in the future the best. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This amendment to the Award Act is an important step. Finally, at this point I can thank all soldiers for their commitment to maintain peace in Europe. This bill was adopted unanimously in the Defence Committee. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give your consent to this amendment of the law today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13735	This is now the time for Deputies of Ing. Kaipel to the speaker's desk. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13753	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying that, as in the present case, there is unanimity in a question of defence. Although it is not a major issue, such as the neutrality or NATO or the painful history of the interception hunters, which, as we learn from the “Kronen Zeitung” today, we need to buy much more expensive than the Germans, but it is a little novel to the military award law. I think that even this little novel, which is about recognition of performance, can also be motivated. Therefore, from this point of view, these small novels must not be underestimated in their effect. I would also like to point out, however, that the Ministry has failed to deal with this little novelle with the change of military law as early as the previous year. But this procedure is not entirely new. Such halves and superficialities have proved the government several times in the past. At any rate, we will fix this mistake today and the law retroactively with 1. December 2003 in order to ensure that it is possible, as my previous speaker has already said, that women and men working abroad can also be awarded according to their performance. I should also like to thank all the soldiers here for their achievements in the service of the fatherland. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I am concerned about the future of our federal army, because of the many millions who are wasted on prestige projects. When you take the suspicion – it's about the Eurofighters – it's more of a project of displacement. In any event, it is appropriate for the remaining parts of the federal army to no longer have any funds available. That's why you're going to starve the federal army. [[Abg. Großruck: What shift? Explain “Shift”! Don't put allegations in the room!]] They will not be able to guarantee the security of the soldiers. This, of course, leads to de-motivation and also hinders performance. That is why this novelle, which we decide today, is probably also ineffective or unnecessary, it will only serve as a fig leaf so that you can cover the shortcomings that exist in the federal army. With this policy, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, take the content of it very much! But not only that, with your policy, ladies and gentlemen, you have also taken a good piece of democracy and social justice in the past four years Austria. It is not gratifying, but I am still glad that this government is the way it is.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13796	Next, Mr Bösch, speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. However, there is no obligation to exploit them.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13823	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kaipel, it is not about the interception hunters here and today. I suppose it will be here sometime again about these planes, but not here today. Today, we have only a technical supplement to the Military Award Act, which is due to the possibility that contract staff of the Federal Government with special contract in the German army Wehrdienst, precisely because of these kioP units, no longer and no less. The colleagues have explained that in the future, the KIOP Soldat will be the Austrian contribution to the EU intervention force. That is why it is of great importance that we, of course, also consider this group of persons within the framework of the military award schemes. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13853	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13874	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Also very briefly: I am actually glad that we are constantly working across party borders in the National Defence Committee. And I would ask for a unanimous decision to be taken here too. Of course, it must also be possible that KIOP soldiers, who will have a special importance in the Austrian army in the future, will also be given the rapid EU intervention force, military awards. For a soldier, a soldier, this also means a special personal award. It is therefore not to be underestimated. If I look at the task, the Austrian federal army will naturally deal with the domestic tasks in Austria, which are necessary. In addition, we have to deal with even more foreign operations, as peace operations abroad are also security missions in Austria at the same time. I place that there is a great interest in the KIOP soldiers. We have 1 600 messages so far, with a total of 245 already installed as a KIOP Soldiers. 923 are currently carrying out aptitude tests. We're on a very good way here. The track is laid in the right direction. And I wish and hope that in the future, our KIOP soldiers will receive the awards they will certainly also need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13907	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kapeller. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13925	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! This legal adjustment for military awards is, of course, necessary and is beyond dispute. Military awards are intended to give public recognitions for soldering services. And that's exactly what the award is for. Men and women who advocate law, order, justice, democracy and freedom are awarded. Soldiers who serve in order to give others freedom and peace, if necessary also use their lives in such crisis regions, should experience appreciation for their courage, for above-average benefits. Visible awards are to be rewarded and highlighted in both military and civil models of courage, courage, civil courage, willingness to use, comradeship and loyalty. Especially today, in our time, honorary signs, orders are not anachronistic or obsolete. Especially in our fast-moving, invigorating time, in the performance of individual, individual services to be easily forgotten, at a time when what seemed to be true yesterday, at a time when orientations are often no longer given, such portable and visible appreciations of one's own performance are important. That is how we give recognition to those whom they deserve.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13959	Next speaker: Mrs Stadlbauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e13979	Mr President. Minister! High house! I agree with the request, as did my previous speakers. As we have heard, the 2002 Wehrrechtsammlungsgesetz has provided the possibility that contract staff of the Federal Government with special contract can also provide military service in an organisation unit of the Federal Army for the posting of foreign operations. It has therefore become necessary to extend the military service times necessary for the award of military service signs. In principle, I am not in favour of it. Assuming military service signs: What I do not want, however, is that there are sexist signs in the Federal Army, as I found them on the official website of the Ministry of Defence a few months ago: Substances of the Austrian air forces with naked women depicted on a Dragon fighter, including the saying: ‘Your back is free!’ Only after public pressure did Minister Platter react and have the badges removed from the homepage. However, it is not clear whether they are still in use. I don't know. I asked you at the time in a parliamentary request for these badges, and you answered the following: These badges have not been official and have not been approved. - Good. But why have they been pictured on the official website of the Ministry? And unfortunately, this is not the only case where the fear confirms that sexism and women discrimination are still present in the men's federal army. For example, in the magazine “Truppedienst – Zeitschrift für Führung und Bildung im Österreichen Bundesheer” three male German army members were recruited, staring at Palmers-Plakate. The editor of this paper is the Federal Ministry of Defense. After a request from me in the ministry was made...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14010	Ladies and gentlemen, you are already referring to the Military Awards Act!Unknown term type: "%s".?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14029	... this advertising is now exchanged, and now it is advertised with war representations. I don't think that's really evidence of taste and sensitivity either. The fact that this is done by official bodies of the Federal Government like the Ministry shows what is to be thought of by various announcements of this government, which are as follows: Equal treatment is important to us, we want to introduce gender mainstreaming, and the women's promotion plan is to be implemented. In any case, this is very, very unbelievable for your place of business, Mr Minister. The fact that it is not far from with gender-righteous speech also surprises in view of the...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14053	Madam honourable Member, could you at least use the word ‘military award’ in your speech?Unknown term type: "%s".?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14080	It is really significant that this is not so much heard whenever you talk about these issues. But I would just like to tell you that even the Austrian City Association, in an opinion, would draw attention to the fact that it is concerned that No female forms were introduced by the Federal Minister for Defence of the State on the degrees of service. Mr Minister, you repeatedly write in response to questions and say that in future you will create a particularly strict level of discrimination against women. I'm just wondering: When do you finally do that? It remains to be hoped that, with the law we decide here today, at least women will not be excluded from the award. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14122	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14140	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! To ensure that I do not fall into the same position and to draw the attention of the President to the fact that I am not speaking on the subject, I will be very brief, because there is consensus on this issue. As my previous speakers have already pointed out, it is a very positive signal that this amendment to the Military Awards Act will now allow all soldiers who serve a great service abroad to be awarded in the future. Mr Kapeller has already said it; I also believe that today awards are very important. They are proof that people are still ready to defend the homeland at home and abroad and to maintain this idea of defence. In all cases, we from our group would like to agree with this and with a calm conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14171	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14189	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The content of the bill has already been mentioned: It is now possible to identify those who are travelling internationally for us in order to secure peace in Austria and Europe, namely the forces for international operations. It is certainly not an easy service. They should know, ladies and gentlemen, that these forces, who have a high level of interoperability, are called for a high degree of training in order to carry out their task where they are sent. It is certainly not an easy service, and with this law we say a thank you, a thank you to those who are willing to participate in international efforts. It's an award, it's a recognition – it's not a financial impact. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You may also be interested in the fact that we have a long tradition in this area, that we have and have had 50,000 soldiers and civilians in international service since 1960, and that we have been trying to secure peace at Golan for 30 years this year – a achievement that we can be proud of, ladies and gentlemen! At present we have twelve missions running, a thousand soldiers are in about operation, including 600 in Kosovo, at our doorstep, where we are most interested in calming the situation, perhaps even in peace. We also have observers in operation; the area of action reaches the Western Sahara and Ethiopia. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to tell you something after today, at the first item on the agenda for the defence of the state by some representatives of the opposition, that you would not be the right way to doubt your way of security for the Republic, for Europe, and that you are doing anything other than providing security. I would like to confirm to you, in contrast to those speakers of the opposition, that the path is right to have two equivalent aspects in security policy, namely, on the one hand, for security in our country, in Austria, to do everything, to ensure that we make preventively every opportunity to counter new dangers, but on the other hand also to be internationally willing to participate accordingly, together with the European forces. Today we decide that we can give the Austrian award to our internationally employed soldiers and give them a thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14237	The next speaker is Mr Lacner. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14256	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I too am given the honour of being allowed to refer to the military awarding law. This is a special pleasure to me; my colleague, Mr Kaipel, has already mentioned that my group will, of course, also give its approval to this military award law. After we have given our consent to the Military Award Act, it will be necessary to speak to Mr Scheuch, along with this Sunday Act, about the true things in defence policy. It cannot be assumed that we are constantly only talking about such Sunday laws, we should also devote ourselves to the essential things in defence policy. Mr Scheuch, it is not true that we do not want to participate. It is you who regularly prevent discussions, meaningful discussions on defence policy by delaying the treatment of the opposition applications in the committee. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You've done that for 30 years! 30 years!]] Mr Scheuch, this is cold coffee! You're at work for four years! You could decide everything yourself in this area, and you don't need us to do that. What'd you do? Nothing final! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I have such a dull feeling, Mr Scheuch, that in view of the fact that people in this country do not want to hear and know anything about you, whatever the last elections prove, are trying to hide our requests, so that the public can't get rid of the good requests of the opposition in this House. Ladies and gentlemen! In today's statement on EU enlargement, the Federal Chancellor has considered how the EU will develop further. He has forgotten to refer in detail to the fact that this EU is, of course, also a major peace project. I believe that it is clear from this fact that there must also be new values in the field of defence policy, and I would just like to mention some of them here. Ladies and gentlemen! Because of these new challenges arising from defence policy, namely participation in peacekeeping, peacemaking, strengthening democracy movements and the like, it will be necessary to rethink the whole defence policy completely. You, Mr Minister – and that must be said – have to answer for the most expensive false decision or misinvestment of the Republic. Today it is in the “Kurier” and also in the “Kronen Zeitung” that the Eurofighters are not only a misinvestment, but that you have also bought it overpricedly. You will also be responsible for this before the taxpayer. The next elections, ladies and gentlemen, will prove it: The taxpayer, the citizen will present the invoice to you! In this sense: Do not continue to conclude a reasonable defence policy! We are willing to involve our competence in this area as well. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14304	Mr Parnigoni is now speaking. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14323	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Ten speakers have now taken a position before me on the Military Awards Act. So I fulfilled the requirement to have said the word “Military Award Act” twice. – Of course, I also believe that it is right that soldiers who work abroad for us, who represent the interests of Austria there, are equated with the soldiers in Austria and receive the corresponding awards. Mr Platter, it is too little, however, to extend this law to those persons who can receive such a military medal, because you must already maintain that your policy – slowly, but surely! – in the direction that you are unfortunately beginning to put the separation before the Joint Assembly in defence policy. Mr Minister, with your decision you have left the usual way, because you have opted for these sinterers and unnecessary Eurofighters! I say immediately and very clearly to my group: We from the SPÖ are against these Eurofighters, we say no to that, but that does not mean that we say no to the Federal Army. On the contrary! And I can say that out of personal perception; I really have best contacts with the garrisons on TÜPl Allensteig, in Horn, in Weitra and therefore know the concerns and needs that plague the colleagues there. For example, it is about missing equipment, and it is about the fact that whenever there are infrastructure requirements for the barracks, the necessary money is not available, et cetera. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, you have to be told that your decision is not for people, but for unnecessary and above all sinister fighter planes! If you follow media reports, you can see that, Minister of the State, Austria has 50 percent more to pay for these products than the German Bundeswehr. [[Abg. Scheibner: nonsense!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, we also look at your decision that by €75 million you can also use Ural Flyer as a transitional solution – and that in addition to the total purchase price! – taking into account that, I believe, the chaos of your policy is clearly recognizable! Mr Federal Minister, we Socialists are on the ground of cooperation; we have now also agreed to this Council of Europe agreement, and we will also agree to this proposal. I can only ask you, Minister of State Platter: Return to the path of cooperation! And I can recommend you: Order these unnecessary and sintering aircraft again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14362	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 459 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 5. Point First reading: Request by Dr Christoph Matznetter, colleagues on a federal law amending the Income Tax Act (364/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14412	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Muttons. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14436	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A parliamentary survey on “Architecture and Building Culture in Austria” has recently been held here in the House. The importance of architecture and building culture and also the internationally important reputation of Austrian architects has been identified accordingly. Good architecture was a trademark, so was one of the statements in this survey. However, in order for this trademark to develop, good architecture must be recognised as an important part of our society and our culture; positive framework conditions must be created to promote a contemporary building culture. I understand this as an excellent training and Talking know-how, but also very specific support for young architects, so that they can easily take a foothold in their profession. For this purpose, this proposal can contribute 364/A, with the aim of bringing about fiscal equality between the architects with artists, writers and writers. In concrete terms, the possibility of a return on profits already applied to artists is also to be opened for architects. In other words, for income from self-employed work as an architect, a three-year distribution is to be made possible upon request at the first time. I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, that you yourself have described the return option for artists in income tax law as a major improvement, which should give the artist bureaucratic relief to the Fiscus or reduce its financial burden. – Architects understand themselves as construction artists and see themselves exposed to conditions similar to those of other artists. With the involvement of the architects in § 37 of the Income Tax Act, there would also be fiscal equality. However, improving the tax situation of architects can only be a first step: A clear commitment by the state to high-quality architecture also includes optimizing the conditions for a construction culture. In this regard, a number of fields of action have already been shown in this architectural survey, in which continuous work is now to be carried out, yes. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is a first step and I would ask you to support it. However, further steps, such as the report on the situation of construction culture, should be taken soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14484	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14503	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot share the tax argument of Colleague Muttonen, but it is true that according to § 37 para. 9 of the Income Tax Act from the year 2000 on the first time in respect of a calendar year, positive income from independent artistic or written activity may be taxed equally for a total of three years on application. The technical term for this is: Return on profit. The objective justification of this distribution lies in the fact that artists, who often work long-term, also work cross-periods on a particular work of art and receive only in the event of recovery or completion and are regularly lacking in income during the art creation phase. This sequence of financially worse and better years is typical of the work for artists, writers and would often be in danger of existence without distribution. For the professions in the narrower sense – such as doctors, lawyers or even architects, civil technicians – there is no such distribution possibility because typically there is also no comparable distribution need. Although these professional groups may see themselves as artists in their profession, they are not treated as an artist in tax terms, as these groups of professionals in their to distinguish between the works and the work of artists. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, it would be a clear competitive advantage to the planned builders, who will also have to measure their income from commercial operations annually. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! On the basis of the reasons just mentioned, the ÖVP cannot agree to your own initiative, although it is possible to reflect on the basics and periods of corporate taxation. A return bill would be beneficial for many entrepreneurs and would lead to more uniform progressions and a better tax burden distribution for individual companies, individual companies. The loss premium for revenue and expenditure computers outside the first three years would also be a great advantage for many small entrepreneurs, but also for freelancers. If the Fiscus allows the distribution of income over three years, the return account or the loss statement, this should be possible for all professional groups and industries. These ideas can and will certainly be a proposal for the next tax reform. – But now back to the architects. Mrs Muttonen! The architects are certainly an important professional group. But why do you want to allow only the architects the benefits of the distribution of income? – Here I would like to become very clear: Lobbyism for a particular profession must not prevail in tax legislation!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14563	Mr Bucher is now speaking. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14581	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Muttonen, I can offer your comments in so far as the appreciation of the artists and the artistic architects is concerned. But I do not think that a tax approximation of the architects to the writers and to the free-lance artists is a goal, because one also has to distinguish that there are two differently oriented currents of the architects – one is technically oriented, the other artistically oriented – and that, as my previous speaker has already noted, we tend to tend towards a uniform corporate tax in the near future, which will be located around 25 percent. In other words, it must be our desire not to distinguish the individual professional groups in Austria, but to introduce, fairly, a corporate tax which corresponds to the income of the industry in the context of income tax and which is located in the above-mentioned order of magnitude. So I don't think much of opening up this field, because that's how we get problems with the professions, with the doctors or the lawyers. If we start to assess each professional group on its own, it will be problematic. Therefore, I think that from our point of view, this request cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14621	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14639	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not entirely agree with Mr Bucher's speech, in that you say that professional groups should not be taxed differently. I think that this really needs a discussion and that this discussion is correct if you look at architects and architects – as well as artists or other professional groups – in a specific situation, especially at the beginning of their career, as far as the irregularity of income is concerned. But where I'm right, it's not just the architects and architects. We have discussed this before, and I think – as I would join my colleague Steindl – that there is a need for a discussion, such as how we deal with start-ups, i.e. small businesses in the start-up phase. If you look at Austria as having one of the highest insolvency rates at exactly this company, you can already ask yourself what you can do for them. [[Abg. Bucher: The first seven years!]] There is a way to find a tax opportunity for the first years – I think you can then discuss it – to make life easier for them or even to allow survival at all. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In other words, we would like to discuss this proposal, which is available here, also in the Committee. In principle, we think it is right to cut this issue and look at it in principle. But we would also like to have a discussion on a further fiscal reform, particularly with regard to these small and young enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14686	The last speaker on this point is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14704	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the present proposal for a change to the Income Tax Act is concerned, the position of the liberals has already been set out. I can only join this fully in content. However, I would like to use the item on the agenda to make a small addition to one of my follow-up speakers to the last item on the agenda, namely Mrs Lacner. He has stood out here and has quite nicely demanded that more discussions on the defence of the state should be held here in the House. I looked at this – and Toni Gaál as an interlocutor will do it to him, since he himself is not sitting here –: Mr Lacner has been sitting in this place for eight years, four years in the government and four years in the opposition, and has not once talked about national defence in more than 70 speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14749	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 364/A to the Financial Committee. 6. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dietmar Hoscher, colleagues in a federal law amending the Income Tax Act (369/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14787	We're now on the 6th. The item on the agenda and the debate. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hoscher. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14808	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If it were not a first reading, you would have to say: Of course, at a later hour exactly the industry is talking about, which is probably one of the most important in this country. We are already used to this, for example, by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, when the tourism report is being negotiated by 9 p.m. and then everyone is pushing, because the trains are going home. But it's a first reading, and that's normal. I hope that we will discuss this at a more favourable time in the financial committee or in the requests we have in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and perhaps talk about it a little longer. Very briefly on the request and on the concerns related to it: I don't think I need to mention how important tourism is. We all know from the figures that, depending on the narrower definition, it is a share of GDP between 9.6 and 18.3 percent, and it concerns more than 150,000 workers. 12.6 percent of apprentices work in this field, which is a very, very essential area for apprenticeship training! It is also about employment growth – when it comes to about a five-year period – of about 1.4 per cent per anno, whereas in the overall economy it is 0.6 per cent. That is to say, it is really a growth area, a hope area, especially in the European Union. I mean, that's reason enough to look at the tax side here, too, and I still believe that tourism is a high-tax industry. I know that the objections will come, in particular tomorrow: The tax reform will in any case be very preferable to this sector, there is a reduction in corporate tax, there was already half-rate taxation in the profits not collected from personal companies. However, this is so – it is evident when you move through the countries and talk to the economic representatives in the federal states too – that in the meantime it is no longer only behind your hands, but it is plainly emphasized that you do not expect a large number of companies to be affected, especially in the tourism and leisure sectors. Therefore, we believe that accompanying measures are also necessary, additional measures. One of these measures – and that is what this request deals with – is the increase in the rate of decommissioning to 4 percent. This is not a new invention from us, but an old demand of the economy and the industry that we have taken up here, namely for hospitality and accommodation. That is, we want to extend it to the whole area. To counter the objection – but it will not come from tourists, but perhaps from tax lawyers – that this is unconstitutional and that one cannot do it: That's not a constitution. Inconsistency! We have a wide range of depreciation rates in the various sectors, and we all agree – and also that with reasonable and truly renowned tax regulators – that the need for renewal is so high in tourism that a higher depreciation rate is well justified here. However, I believe – and this is one of the central concerns of this request – that we see this request as the first point of discussion “only”. That is to say, we want to have a broad discussion about the tax burden on the industry, not just with regard to the AfA. I think it would have to be at the heart of this question: How can we really achieve a tax reduction in this sector, which will continue to help the industry and which would not be passed on to consumers directly and, above all, to consumers? This may sound a bit strange from the mouth of a social Democrat, but I believe that a significant part of this tax reduction would have to go into a capitalisation, because it is an industry that is on average equipped with negative equity, and because we are very competitive internationally over a wide range of pricing in tourism. That is, we should talk about reducing the reduced rate of sales from 10 to 5 percent in the industry. This is something which has not come from us originally, but which the French in particular have proposed at European level, because it is within the framework of the 6. It is important to discuss the VAT Directive – although in Austria it is controversial whether we could not do it nationally. There is a need of about €250 to €300 million, that is, it is a very substantial contribution to the industry. We should talk about the reduction of pay-related taxes, for example through a re-basing, about the loss of company tax and the credit contract fee, for example announced by Federal Minister Bartenstein during the Schönbrunn tourism talks in autumn, but “cancelled” by the Minister of Finance, saying he has no money for it. I wonder why we call the “bagatell taxes ” if we don’t have any money for that. It is similar with the basic book registration fee or with facilitation in the follow-up. We will take a good look at what is supposed to have been decided in the Council of Ministers – because we do not yet have the draft – about small AGs. I'm quite ready to talk when it comes to the industry. However, there is also criticism from industry representatives, because this draft should set the limits different from in the EU. That is, we stand for a meaningful mix. I am quite ready to talk about which individual areas we can address, and I am not entitled to a single tax. Only: What we need to do and what we should be doing is a substantial discharge in the tax sector in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14876	The next speaker is Mr Schweisgut. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14894	Mr President. High house! I would like to thank my previous speaker for the fact that the Social Democrats are also developing ideas on how to bring important reliefs to the tourism industry in Austria. Mr Hoscher has offered that this should be a contribution in a broad discussion, and I see it as such. It's from the Tourism always demands – and this demand is also a very old one – in the room to relieve tourism. On the other hand, it must also be seen that, in recent years, tourism in Austria has had a very good development with constantly increasing figures, that we in Austria have been driving an unprecedented quality offensive that has brought us very much forward in tourism, and that we have seen new trends in time, in contrast to surrounding states. Looking at the ratio of tourism in Switzerland 30 years ago to tourism in Austria 30 years ago, one realizes that we have made investments in a different direction, that is, very forward-looking. We have set out in time for wellness, we have developed trend sports such as golf in good time for the summer, which has naturally led to large investments in the individual businesses and continues to arouse them. The demand for a reduction in depreciation is, of course, a logical requirement if you look at tourism. Tourism only lives on up-to-date events, tourism only lives on new developments, and tourism only lives – be it in the small house, up to the large facility – from constantly new developments. That is why there is of course a relatively short period of use there. On the other hand, we need to see that there are other industries in the economy, which are very dynamic. For example, I use telecommunications, I also make high-tech businesses of a different kind, or I refer to the food industry, which in recent years and decades has also been called upon to make permanent investments. Therefore, one may not like to see a discussion purely for tourism on the economic side, nor that an industry is treated in favour of other, also dynamic undertakings. That is, I see it as it is the case at a first reading: We should now start a wide-ranging discussion. My previous speaker has already pointed out that, for the reasons I have mentioned, there are also concerns of a constitutional nature that one industry is preferred to others. Perhaps the possibility already provided for in § 8 to shorten depreciation rates should be made useful and appropriate advice should be given on how to provide the industry with appropriate opportunities in this way. By the way, I do not believe that tax-technical differences should be made. But we will talk about it, and a first reading is there, I think, very positive. As a tourist speaker of our party, of course, I see it this way – it has already been mentioned – that we in tourism must be careful to remain internationally competitive, but also to remain internationally competitive. This includes investments, including future projects, but we have also taken first steps in the tax reform by reducing the tax burden on profits that we have created opportunities for investment. We will discuss this, we will certainly be ready for discussions.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14939	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14960	Mr President. High house! Mr Hoscher has listed the entire demand bar, which would, of course, be desirable. I am a tourist and a businessman myself, and of course I wish you all the things you've asked for here. But I think we should also remain realistic and see what is feasible and what can be achieved because of the budgetary situation. I think that on the point of reducing depreciation periods – which were extended from 25 years to 33.3 years in 2000, when I remember correctly – this is actually a very long and unwarranted period. For example, we know that hotel projects need to be financed in a much shorter period of time and the return on investment must also be achieved, because the projects are otherwise not lucrative. That is, the duration of use is far too long for the actual depreciation period, and it is also a mixed form of depreciation because, for example, a hotel room can never last more than 33 years. You know that reinvestment in hotel rooms must take place at the latest after 15 years if they are to be attractive enough and also to be marketed. I therefore believe that this is a very reasonable proposal that we will discuss in the Committee. However, I also say that a number of very important discharges have been made for the tourism industry in this year, such as the abolition of the 13th anniversary. VAT prepayment and half-tax rate on profits not collected. I believe that this, in sum of the tax reform that we will decide tomorrow, is a strong relief, but say that, for example, the halving of the tax rate on Logis – as you have suggested – is a point that, for example, has not led to anything in Switzerland. In Switzerland, there is the negative example of reducing the rate of VAT, but the companies have not benefited from it and have not achieved a more favourable price in international comparison, so that this has brought nothing in total – except lower tax revenue for the Minister of Finance. In other words, I do not think that VAT reduction is an appropriate means, but reducing the period of use to a realistic level is a point that we will discuss in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e14993	The last speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15019	Mr President. Here I am given the word “Eurofighter”. I'm just telling you one thing: If we were only to make semi-scientific type decisions – and if we had already made wrong type decisions, at least the prices would negotiate successfully – we would not have many financial problems that we have to deal with here! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But there will be another opportunity to talk about it in the next few days.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15051	The speaker is speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15067	In the sense of a lively debate: I think we should be careful not to introduce such an economic skill everywhere as in the Ministry of Defence, otherwise this issue will become virulent elsewhere. But I can do the thing a little bit. I mean, you're all interested that it doesn't take so long. Klubobmann Scheibner said earlier: Oh, my God, you have to make a request again! How long do you want to sit there? Now, please. Gentlemen! – Ladies are not there from the FPÖ. The thing is relatively simple. The one of you... [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Excuse me, Mrs Colleague, I have now been so fixed to the three honourable Members in front of me that I really want to turn to her again. In particular, it has been your contribution, together with the first speaker, to praise the economic merits of tourism. One will now have to decide on this instrument of favoured depreciation: Are we doing this because tourism is such an important economic factor? But then the question arises as to what is the appropriate funding instrument. I am not so sure, Mr Hoscher, whether we can actually go in there as a priority – the doubts range from the principle of equality to the economics – and whether the depreciation can be reduced in this way, without looking at what it looks like in similar other sectors. In other and simple words: It must be objectively acceptable to shorten the amortisation period. I also think we can find such reasons. In the case of investments in investment assets in particular in the tourism sector, we can justify this: If we go to four percent, we would have a full depreciation period of 25 years. You have to do this, and I am very open to this argument. On this occasion, however, there is something different: that there are already other sectors in Austria that would also be eligible. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The agriculture!]] And if you already tighten the economic promotion instrument's period of depreciation, it would also make sense for me once again in the light of tomorrow's debate to break our minds on what it actually looks like with the tax investment promotions in Austria as a whole. A lot of things have gone out. The rest has remained essentially the investment-increasing premium support that all here welcomed. And, of course, that's something that needs to run out. It's so designed that you can't extend it year after year – and when it runs out, it's just gone. We've come to know each other. In fact, in international comparison, it is true that in Austria the direct investment favour instruments are no longer available, but in many comparable OECD countries already. There are a number of proposals here, I do not want to determine. One would, for example, even introduce the special instrument of early depreciation in general, which is degressive, therefore very much beginning and then falling down, because this in the short to medium term favours investment decisions, since, of course, rapid profit reductions occur accordingly. Of course, this requires that we go from companies that make profits. I could befriend you with that. That would at least be ten times better for me than this rather generous one and I do not think it is so effective to reduce the cost. This would once be a useful debate which we could hold on the occasion of this request in committee. It is true that the reduction of wage-related taxes is long needed and this would also be the best economic promotion especially in the tourism sector. This is also an investment criterion, and as we all know, tourism is very labour-intensive and not just capital-intensive. So the bow closes: Unfortunately, no major tax reform of all time, but at least a request worth thinking about in order to become smarter in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15114	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 369/A to the Financial Committee. 7. Point First reading: Request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Plant Protection Act 1997 (375/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15151	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. It is the first Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Requested time: 5 minutes. - You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15175	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! The Greens' own-initiative proposal is a subject which has been dealt with more strongly in the media in recent weeks. It is a very sensitive area of food safety, namely the issue of pesticides in Austrian agriculture and the authorisation of pesticides based on the current plant protection legislation. The aim of our application is to amend § 12 para. Delete 10 without replacement. Let me get something! This section was introduced under Federal Minister Molterer in 2002 and, through so-called equality regulations, leads to a total liberalisation in the import of pesticides. There are already two countries for which these regulations have been pronounced, namely the Federal Republic of Germany and Holland. These Dutch pesticides are currently heavily burdening Austrian agriculture. And above all: The so-called fine food shop in Austria is really in danger. Imagine: 800 pesticides or 235 active substances were simply approved with this equality regulation! This is a completely incompatible process when considering the orientation of Austrian food production in recent years. Most of the farmers operate in the Austrian environmental programme, and there is a high proportion of organic farming in Austria. This one-sidedness – an equality of pesticides without own national risk analysis – is unique in Europe. No other country has passed such a regulation, such liberalisation. In addition, this means a levelling down, which is legendary. Concretely demonstrated on an active substance: For tomatoes, buprimates are now authorised. This is an active substance that has previously been authorised for tomatoes in Austria at a maximum of 0.01 mg/kg. According to the new approval regulations based on the Dutch provisions, it is now a milligram. It is thus allowed a 100-fold value. This is a levelling down as we have never and never had it in the last decades, and you are responsible for that by ÖVP and FPÖ because you have approved it. We will make every effort to ensure that this incredible situation and damage to Austrian agriculture and the Austrian food industry is also eliminated by the uncertainty of consumers. Mr Schultes! Sagittarius You don't have your head! That's the case. Consumers are insecure when a policy is pursued, where it is no longer clear what is inside the products, because the control is made impossible. Pesticide control, ladies and gentlemen, is made impossible by this strategy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is perfectly clear and obvious. The pesticides chaos must also be admitted to the Minister. In some responses he admitted the de facto. The approval of an active substance should be verified on the websites of Holland. In Dutch! Which controller can Dutch? Which farmer can Dutch? There are no German-speaking documents indicating the cultures or the application provisions for which these pesticides are authorised. That's the point! There is no influence on the authorisation criteria of these Dutch pesticides. This is another central deficit! In the short term, it even allowed for the authorisation of prohibited substances. Substances that we had long banned were again approved, and a new prohibition regulation had to be issued. Especially good-looking: Direct imports without German-speaking labelling are now legal. Farmers have no protection at all. They don't know what to do. They don't have any safety evidence that they could do. Furthermore, the Food Safety Agency cannot prove 86 percent of these pesticides at all. This is another fact that is incredible. Finally, let me say briefly that the provisional report of the European Union, the control report of the Directorate-General for Health and Consumer Protection clearly states that there are huge shortcomings in this area, controls are not carried out, or – I quote literally now – that: The fact that the 100-fold residue maximum content is taken as a trigger for a warning message under the Rapid Warning System could seriously endanger consumer health. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Even if it is just a preliminary report, this criticism is so serious that we expect it to come very quickly to an agricultural committee where we decide on the novel of the Plant Protection Act and finally end this unsustainable state. [[Abg. Wittauer: What does that mean “unsustainable ”?]] Completely unsustainable, Mr Wittauer, because pesticides are applied without risk analysis, without consumer protection and also to farmers. I hope you will agree to this Green Initiative proposal. The consumers will definitely give him their consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15218	The next speaker is Mr Praßl. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15238	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! phytosanitary products, which have been authorised for distribution and use in Germany, have been in Austria since July 2002. This is an essential innovation brought about by the 2002 Agricultural Rights Change Act in plant protection legislation. § 12 para. 10 of the phytosanitary legislation provides that plant protection products authorised for placing on the market in an EU Member State are also authorised in Austria without official examination. By spring 2004, Germany was the only state to fulfil the above conditions. A further equality regulation is also available for the Netherlands. Mr Pirklhuber, if you claim in your statement that the consumer is being insecure and responsible for agriculture, I must strongly tell you that our farmers, who are willing to produce excellent food in the agricultural environment programme, ÖPUL, have to undergo intensive control. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Who? There are many non-capable pesticides here!]] Each farmer is obliged to undergo these checks. He just can't do anything else. I believe that we will have to discuss this change very seriously in the near future. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I am convinced that we have taken a right step towards liberalising plant protection products and that, in the end, there is also the right orientation – towards the European Union and harmonisation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's incredible!]] I think we should assign this issue and this request to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, where we will discuss it intensively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15298	Now, Mr Magz, I would like to say a few words about Mr Magz. Maier. 5 minutes speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15316	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A word to my previous speaker. It is incredible what we have heard here, namely that the liberalisation of plant protection products would have been the right way. Mr President, I should like to thank I think you don't know what you actually talked about. [[Abg. Steibl: I don't think so! He knows that very well!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the SANCO's control report and to make it clear in all sense what is still in place in Austria, but also in the rest of Europe. In this preliminary control report, SANCO has given nine recommendations to the EU Commission and the Austrian Federal Government, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health. If one reads through the board, ladies and gentlemen, then I'm partly bad. In the case of studies carried out, there were no risk analyses by the AGES, by the Food Safety Agency, especially in baby food. Now I ask you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Where did we get to with the much praised food safety in Austria? The Socialist Group will support the Green Group's request for a number of reasons: On the one hand, because we see the problems the same way, and on the other – which most of you may have missed – there is a draft to amend the Plant Protection Act, which is currently under review. On the one hand, I understand this draft as an admission that we have great shortcomings in direct imports, because the transparency of farmers must not only be improved, but must be regulated at all. To do this, you need to know: Direct imports were disputed in particular by the ÖVP Farmers' Association. The Minister, like his predecessor, has always explained that there are no problems. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I ask you: Why Make So you're going to have this scheme? I don't understand. Or did you get a bad conscience because there are too many direct imports of plant protection products to Austria? This, in turn, depends of course on this scandalous determination in § 12 para. 10 phytosanitary legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In principle, we should discuss how we can increase food safety in Austria. This is not only a question of the use of plant protection products, it is generally a question of restructuring. It is a question of who is to be responsible for agricultural property law, plant protection legislation and feed law. The current situation of competence in Austria is a fatal and objectively justified by nothing: This is where the Minister of Agriculture is responsible, the Minister for Health. With the AGES, on the one hand, there is this virtual Federal Office for Food Safety, which allows at the same time and then controls it again through AGES cooperation. – By the way, I consider this provision to be unconstitutional. This opinion is increasingly shared by officials. In principle, we need a new regulation, because it is a question of testing plant protection products not only in terms of their authorisation, but also of controlling plant protection products in marketing. I also wonder why no ads have been returned if so many shortcomings have been identified by the control bodies. This answer is still to our credit to Mr Pröll. However, it is crucial – and the Commission has noted this – how application control is carried out. The main criticism of the Commission was that in Austria the use of plant protection products in fields has never been checked to determine whether the plant protection products have actually been used in accordance with the authorisation. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We had the same problem with feed. The Federal Minister of Agriculture has finally issued a decree to the Councils of Agriculture so that such checks can be carried out. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we invite you to discuss it with us so that we can achieve more transparency and more food safety for consumers in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15359	Mr Wittauer is now speaking for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15379	Mr President. High house! Member of the Maier, it's like this: Austria in particular has the highest safety standards in the food sector, and I am therefore surprised that it is simply claimed that we are stupendous in this area. The Food Agency also guarantees that there is continued safety. Now, when I see the methodology that you're trying to present everything in a somewhat strange light, I have to tell you one thing: Your commitment, Mr Pirklhuber, in all honours, but with us the trend is going down significantly when it comes to pesticides. No farmer, no farmer will go here and use pesticides that are very expensive only from jux and tollery. No, he's going to use it sparingly. Pesticides have improved, including in the European field. As the European Party, the Social Democrats, and the Greens always say Europe, Europe, Europe and highlight the complexity, they should also see here that harmonisation is an important step, that the risk review must take place at European level and not only at Austrian level. When you look at this in Europe: There is a man who has worked well, this is our top candidate, Mr Kronberger. It has managed, precisely when there is a need for action in Brussels, to enforce amendments aimed at strengthening the Commission's proposal. The aim was and must be – and this was also implemented – to limit pesticide residues and the associated health risk to an absolute minimum. That is, one who has a good name for the environment, which has always worked well, namely Kronberger, cannot be blamed. He sees this and has also worked there. I didn't see anything from you, and I didn't see anything about the greens. This work was not particularly supported by you. There are also progresses in the Agriculture Council, all of which aim in one direction: to harmonise the authorisation and harmonisation of the maximum values. It is also clear to you that this Federal Government, that agriculture ministers Pröll and also we have always taken care to ensure that these things are respected, that there are improvements and that, of course, the use of pesticides is reduced among our farmers. We're doing everything we can to keep it going. And you don't need to worry about food safety. This government will take care of it!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15423	Mr Schultes has now made a real correction. – Mr Commissioner, you know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15444	Mr President. High house! Mr Maier claimed that the use of plant protection products in agriculture would not be examined or controlled. I'll put it right: My operation has been examined as many Zig thousands of others, because we have made many commitments under the reduction programmes of the Austrian environmental programme, which are controlled by plant samples in the application of the field by the AMA. If you do not know, Mr Maier, ask at least!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15476	Mrs Rest-Hinterseer is now speaking to us for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15495	Mr President. High house! Only a brief comment on the previous remarks on plant protection. The Ministry could not provide any information on which of these Dutch pesticides are authorised for the treatment of apples or pears, I would soon have said – peppers. The Minister doesn't know here, it's about apples or pears. [[Abg. Hornek: But this is polemic!]] No, that's not polemic! Mr Pröll – please read – refers to an Internet address of the Dutch authorities, where all approved products were listed. However, a targeted question of cultures is not possible there, said the Minister. – That’s not polemic, it’s tragic! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Nor is it about controlling farmers to torment them, but it is about food safety. You all know that. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: They do not control the farmers, they control the farms, Mrs Colleague!]] Pesticide control, reduction of pesticides use is actually the command of the hour. The review is not possible – as the colleague of the SPÖ has already said – and if you say, your colleague Hans Kronberger will do this already: Hans Kronberger is a lonely caller in the FPÖ desert, as far as pesticides control is concerned. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What?]] A lonely caller, Mr Scheuch. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who?]] These around 800 pesticides, which have been approved with no reputation, are really both environmental and agricultural scandals. Finally, I must say that in our journey on the Danube, I was most shocked with the Polish ambassador, that she has reported on the prejudices that prevail in Austria about Polish agriculture, and that she is constantly being asked where the horses are, which are always shown in the newspaper. She said that's always the same horse, and the farmer knows it already at his vest. [[Abg. Scheibner: But that there are 35 percent farmers is true!]] There is quite another fear among the Polish farmers. There is fear of having to use pesticides now and of having to introduce food treated with pesticides. [[Abg. Lens: This is necessary!]] And this is really a shame that we, which we claim to be state-of-the-art environmental policy, are returning here to the time of environmental policy and agricultural policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Have you been to Poland?]] Yeah, several times even.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15618	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is therefore closed. I agree with Amendment 375/A to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. 8. Point Election of a replacement member to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15656	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item: Election of a substitute member to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Since only one election proposal, speaking on power. Eduard Mainoni, present, I will be in accordance with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the adoption of the election proposal which I have announced, on the basis of power. Eduard Mainoni, step in to a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-05-05-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e15700	I am still announcing that in today's session, independent requests 376/A to 386/A have been tabled. Questions 1688/J to 1710/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 6. May 2004, 9 a.m. The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. The session will begin with a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
