ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e473	I'll open the 72. Meeting of the National Council. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported to be Grossruck, Mag. Lunacek, Mag. Posch, shale mare and power. Weinzinger. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e501	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e580	I would also like to point out the motion for a resolution by Mr Magnificent 434/A. Tancsits, Dolinschek, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the General Social Security Act and other laws, Social Rights Amendment Act 2004, to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e604	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform the honourable Members. Mr Tancsits and Mr Dolinschek asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on Mr Mag. Tancsits, Dolinschek, colleagues on a Social Rights Amendment Act 2004 a period of until 8. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place now. We are going into the debate. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Tancsits. He has a business time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e635	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I spoke in this debate on this deadline request, because I am well aware that the procedure for such an important social security law – package, I would like to say almost – is justified by why we want to take advantage of this time in order to make significant improvements for our insured persons and to maintain the social security system before the summer break of the National Council. I therefore request approval of this package right from the beginning or consent to the deadline requested by us. [[Abg. Ollinger: You don't mean that seriously, do you?]] – Of course, I am serious about this, Mr Commissioner. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Where is the application?]] In the short term, which includes this package: first of all, the rehabilitation of the health insurance fund. Until the last day, it was within the institution and was negotiated with the Federal Minister for Health and the Minister for Social Affairs. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Where is the application? We want to see the package!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Where is the application?]] Fortunately, there has been an agreement on this. I think that, in view of our complex system of co-operation between social security institutions, self-government bodies and legislators, we have the obligation to implement this agreement in order not to restore security for insured persons and health insurance in Austria, but not to ignore it for a minute. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Now at once!]] There is also a considerable relief for insured persons as regards the obligation of chief physician. I'm not going to explain this now, we've been talking about this a few times with Maria Rauch-Kallathier, just: I think it is a very essential point not only to put in place low-priced measures, but also to make it easier for the patient’s or his family to go out of business between health insurance companies and their contracting partners. There is a third – and I believe we can be proud of our Austrian self-government system – a proposal for consolidation from farmers' social security funds for their insurance institution. This is necessary for a good reason, because this recognition of the Constitutional Court did not make the compensation fund possible for farmers – rehabilitation step 1. Therefore, another reorganisation step, proposed by the local insurance institution itself, was necessary, and it is now in place. [[Abg. Ollinger: That was all puss!]] We also have the cooperation of social security bodies, self-government bodies, representatives of interests and legislators. To round off the whole, we want to increase the amount of tobacco tax for health insurance providers' compensation funds and also to enable the allocation of resources for individual health insurance. This too, ladies and gentlemen, is, I believe, a solid and logical step, because if our preventive health care measures are to be taken, then, inevitably, the income for health insurance from the tobacco tax must be reduced, because people will then smoke less. As a result, the supply of funds must continue to be ensured in the future. I therefore call once again for this deadline to be accepted in the interests of our sound and exemplary health insurance system and for a positive start to the next Friday, as I believe, of the debate to be taking place.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e747	All other speakers have a legal speaking time of 5 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Donabauer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e780	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There is nothing else, Mr Gradwelt, but a few important legislative instruments that have been presented here today with the deadline, because we believe that some important measures must be taken, which we should decide before the summer. First of all, it is about the big question of the obligation of the chief physician. Anyone who works in social security will observe the development there, knows that we have a huge cost development in this area, which cannot continue because otherwise a financing is not feasible in the long term. That's what the local health phone tells you, just like everyone else. This is a topic for everyone, a topic of health and social policy in Austria. Mrs. Rauch-Kallat has succeeded in restructuring this topic together with the doctor's chamber, with the main association and many others, and two things are being re-regulated. First: There will be structured access to the medications, and this embarrassing approval by the chief physician, that is, the obligation of the chief physician, will belong to the past. The whole thing is made easier. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has the following to say: It's running the paper and not the patient! – This is a very crucial point. Secondly, It is regulated in this law that there will be a 2 percent refund of turnover in the future. Who knows what difficulties, what problems this entails, getting back funding from the revenues, can only say: That's a very good template! Thirdly, Of course, these are also measures in the field of industrial social security, various derogations, and they are also measures in the BSVG, because we have been faced with financial difficulties for years now, you know. If I say “we” then because I belong to this group and also have to stand for it. – There are two reasons for this: For the first time, we have a dramatic ageing, and for Secondly, we are insured with those groups of families that have most children. And as you know, children are mainly insured for contributions. That is why we have an acute financial problem. We want to solve this problem (a) with contribution measures in our own group, and we also expect (b) that we can claim the aliquota share of tobacco tax for this group. This is also regulated by this law and, I believe, is a matter that is unique and correct; this concerns Article 4 of the amendment of the Health and Social Aid Act. I conclude my remarks with the last consideration. Yesterday, after the recognition of the Constitutional Court, the compensation fund for this difficult matter was able to regulate it in a consistent manner. Social security schemes have agreed that the new compensatory allowances areas will be re-regulated, that the loans granted will be provided with correct repayment periods; this is about the settlement of many million euros. Furthermore, the question was whether a new settlement should take place beyond the year 1999, down until 1977. There won't be any. It has all consistently stated that they agree with this scheme. That is why I believe that this reorganisation is fundamental in a very, very difficult matter, and we are glad that we have been able to develop it so far that the negotiations have been successful. That is why we want to do this with deadlines in the next few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e832	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. 5 minutes speaking time. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e850	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already a bit strange that we are having a debate on setting deadlines today at an assignment meeting. This is a request that we discussed at the last plenary session, which was actually held in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The coalition parties could have agreed on it on June. At the time, you said that this request would not have been made because you wanted to give the Committee a fair opportunity to discuss content. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing a deadline by Friday today, a request that most of your own Members probably do not know, because he has not even been distributed here in the house, I wonder... [[Abg. Wittauer: Just don't underestimate...!]] – Please, show me your request! Did you get him? Then you have a special position here in the house. The request has not been distributed here in the house! You are discussing a subject that is so important to you, although the Members of this House are not even able to assess what is contained in this motion because it has not been distributed. Do you believe that this is really an appropriate way to deal with issues? Do you believe that any person is taking you away that it is really your concern to discuss it with us here? Or are you simply in an emergency situation because you know that a health insurance institution that is politically close to you is in a particularly difficult situation? What about the other health insurance companies? What about the debt carousel that you triggered here in the house by your decision-making, which reaches the compensation fund, a law that has been repealed, as we all know? What about health insurance companies in which all self-employed persons are otherwise insured? Are you completely the same as the local health phone? It looks that way, because I don't see financial rehabilitation projects flying over the one application I've organized. I would like to discuss this with you, including the seriousness with which you are addressing the matter. If you still want to do this today – in a mood that takes you out of normal everyday life – by means of a deadline request until Friday, although tomorrow is a day that will probably touch us all, then I think this is very strange. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I do not want to focus on qualitative matters, such as, for example, the obligation of chief physician, where you have not come to a solution. The ‘solution’ is now a regulatory authority. That's not a solution, is it? If you do not come on the same footing, you will do everything you can about the way of the regulation, which is a free letter for the ministries, in this case for the Minister, who obviously did not do anything in the way of negotiation. This is a failure of your policy! Because you are obviously trying to cover up this failure of your policy, you are now trying in this truly unscrupulous way with a deadline proposal – as said: it is a request that is not even pending! – to decide on the coming Friday, fast, fast before the summer break, husch-push, so that no one has the opportunity to ask: What exactly is in there? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] Mr Wittauer, you were not in the Committee. We discussed the whole subject matter. Great was said: We will give this thing a wide space so that you can handle it properly! – This is the “wide space” that you grant to this subject, which is supposedly so important to you according to your own statements? Yes, health policy is important to us. The safeguarding of health care is important to us in Austria. Whether people have to go to the head doctor, that is, whether the person or the paper is running, that is important to us. These are the issues we need to deal with. It is important to us how the local health phone is financially available – and not only what the rural social security system is, but that is also important to us. These are topics that are important to the people who affect people. But what you're doing here is insidious, it's inaccurate, and it's also – I say quite openly – undemocratic. It is undemocratic if, under such a time pressure and under such conditions, you put forward a proposal for a deadline, which does not give us the possibility of a detailed discussion which does not allow us to discuss with experts in detail whether this is again a hush-fuch, whether it is again a law which will be repealed by the Constitutional Court, because it is once again not constitutional whether these regulations are at all designed to secure the future of health care. I find this to be exasperating and I really want to reject it with all my determination.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e903	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes speaking time. – Please, you are speaking, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e921	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Silhavy, 'undemocratic' is not this procedure, as it is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. [[Call the SPÖ: But! Yes!]] It's strange, I admit. I would also like to see a different approach to this matter, including a comprehensive treatment in the Committee. Unfortunately, we only once again have a situation like so often at meetings before the summer break... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] – Listening You may also be able to speak – if I already agree that this procedure is not a happy and not a cheap one for me. But, ladies and gentlemen, especially from social democracy, you will remember that in recent years we have always had such strange conditions here – no matter what the Federal Government was at work, no matter how it was composed: Everything had to be decided before the summer break. [[Abg. Oils: That's not it!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Not in the assignment session!]] At the time, Mr Schieder, we often had such amendments at second reading, which could not be read by anyone. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Once! In history once!]] At least you admit it. We had x-time agendas that occupied us here in the high house until the early morning hours. I say to you that last year we also had situations that did not correspond to what we had in mind. We've tried to change this by far. In this case, this has unfortunately not succeeded in setting deadlines, because until the end, I say quite openly here, we have conducted negotiations, for example as regards farmers' social security, because it has been especially important for us as a liberal, at the same time ensuring that the planned aggregation of the social security of farmers with the social security institution of the industrial economy is fixed and will really come in a manageable period. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was also necessary – and this has also come very close – to present the new regulation of the compensation funds accordingly. That's why this special situation. I say again: I am not happy with this procedure, and we all, the government parties in the first place, will have to work to ensure that such a thing does not repeat in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e1010	The last speaker was Mr Van der Bellen. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e1028	Mr Scheibner, because of your remarks, you have got the impression that you not only find this procedure strange, but that you have a bad conscience as well. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, I say quite openly to you: I don't think that's strange what happened here, but I find that simple and touching scandalous. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This accusation is essentially addressed to the ÖVP and not to the FPÖ. Why? Colleague Tancsits goes out here and says to us anointingly something about a “package” that is present here. We have not seen a cover sheet, as Mr Böhmdorfer recently described, nor a package, but nothing at all! Through his acribical-detective ambition, Mr. Oellinger was successful ten minutes ago and the eight pages of the law – which is apparently the "package". I am convinced that 175 Members of the 183 do not have a pale shimmer, which is in this package. But Mr Tancsits goes out of here and says that this is a very great package, and we have to decide on Friday. – I think that is a shame, Mr Molterer. I find this scandalous! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Donabauer, also from the ÖVP, in the same situation: a very important matter of law. And then he's trying to tell us that it's already been chordd, yesterday, if I'm not crazy. – Do you think we're stupid?- Oh, my God! It is now 16.58 a.m., and between 4.20 a.m. and 4:25 p.m., I should have come up with this “package” at the top of the Bureau. Why so late? Mr Scheibner says it quite openly, and there is nothing to hide: because you did not agree before! That's what you call parliamentarism?- Oh, my God! What do we have a committee for? On Wednesday evening, you will make a request for a deadline, a request for content, which will be decided on the next morning. We'll get rid of the committees. Is that your philosophy? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] - Ah, that's not legal. But what you're doing today, it's legal. And that's not the first case. At the previous meeting, held in 71. Meeting of the National Council, we had a very similar case, namely the KommAustria-Novelle, 430/A. I'll read you a little bit. I wrote a letter yesterday to Mr Molterer and Mr Scheibner. This was discussed at the Presidential Conference, and there is a protocol to this. And as long as there is no opposition to the Minutes, I will stick to the accuracy of this Protocol. In this Minutes of the Presidential Conference, I quote: ‘In the event of its timely completion, application 430/A (Media Laws) will be put on the agenda at a meeting of the Constitutional Committee as item 1, with the President taking the view that such important requests should be discussed in the Committee.’ But what are you doing? – There is no Constitutional Committee against this Presidential Protocol! Well, don't do anything, you might think, although it means that the President has intervened for such important requests to be discussed in committee. – Is he supposed to be “braising”, Mr President? [[Abg. May. Molterer: You don't seem to know my protocol supplement!]] I take note of this, but I warn you, Mr Molterer and Mr Scheibner: The Rules of Procedure also give the opposition certain rights, and if you are trying to demolish the President to a "Shelf-Bold Meeting" and continue in this form, then we will also have to consider what form we are going to take – but not for fun, but because we are convinced parliamentarians! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e1093	Mr Van der Bellen, you really quoted me. However, after this opinion, which was recorded, Klubobmann Molterer took the floor and said that it did not exclude other legislative appropriations. And everyone in the Presidential Conference understood exactly what that means. I did not record this, and Klubobmann Molterer then has a protocol supplement in which exactly the inside was in circulation – before yesterday, I think – and I have left it to all political groups. This is only so that the facts I do not wish to assess from the Bureau are fully presented. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The shame remains!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Tancsits, Dolinschek, colleagues, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on request 434/A concerning a Social Rights Amendment Act 2004 a deadline until 8. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – The request is the majority and is therefore adopted. [[Call the SPÖ: A shame!]] This also completes the agenda of the allocation meeting. I would like to thank the House for having done this very difficult session today in a dignified and certainly exemplary way for parliamentarianism. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Friday, 9. July 2004, 9 a.m. The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. This meeting will begin with a Question Time. Statement by the President on the Federal Assembly and the joint funeral meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00072_d7e1167	Ladies and gentlemen! Tomorrow, at 10:15 a.m., in the Historical Session Hall, the Angelobung of the newly elected Federal President Dr. Heinz Fischer will take place. We have an unexpected attendance of over 1,000 participants, and I recommend you to be in the House in good time, that is, a little earlier. A joint funeral meeting of the National Council and the Federal Council will take place at 11 a.m. following the fishing observation of the newly elected President of the Federal Republic of Germany, in which we will commemorate the late President of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Thomas Klestil. There the floor will take place after the president-in-chief of the National Council, the President of the Federal Council, then Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, then Cardinal Schönborn – about the family’s wish – and then the newly elected Federal President. The whole thing will be over by 12 o'clock. Following this, the members of the National Council and the Federal Council have the opportunity – the Presidential Conference will make use of this possibility – to honor the late Federal President Dr. Thomas Klestil, who was raised in the Hofburg Chapel. The flag parade starts at 15 o'clock, it is limited to the minimum and will take only 10 minutes. The funeral of President Dr. Thomas Klestil is on Saturday at 11 o'clock; it begins with a requiem in St. Stephen's Cathedral. It will take two hours; and Then the blessing is. The whole thing will probably go all afternoon, including the burial in the president's group at Vienna's central cemetery. Then there will be another event, I think. Ladies and gentlemen! You will receive all of this in written form. I just wanted to inform the House about this in detail and in detail so that you can make your time plan. Before closing the meeting, I shall inform you that the Standing Subcommittee of the Main Committee will meet immediately after this meeting in local VI. The sitting is closed.
