ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3105	The meeting was opened. Griefing
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3127	I ask the ladies and gentlemen to rise from their seats. [[All present rise from their seats.]] [[On the square of the Federal President in the Middle Loge lies a bouquet of white roses.]] High house! A few hours ago, the sad news reached us that our head of state, President Dr. Thomas Klestil, was divorced from this world. It was not for him to hear for himself the thanks, respect and recognition that we all have for this statesman. We mourn for our head of state. We are shaken and affected by the circumstances and tragedy of death. Our participation today applies to his family, whom we think with compassion, with participation. We thank Thomas Kletil for his work for our homeland! His great concern was the installation of Austria as a fully-fledged member in the European Union, for which he fought, for which he exposed himself! And we all achieved this goal with him. The enlargement of the European Union to include our natural habitat, our neighbours, the Central and Eastern European countries, was another goal that he persistently pursued. We have also continued with the Central Initiative and the Regional Partnership: Thomas Kle Stil has led the way! The economic and labour location, the jobs of our Federal President were a major concern, and he himself has been in the service of the export industry. Social partnership was also an important asset for him. Thomas Kle Stil has contributed to the importance of the social partners. The Republic has become stronger under its leadership. For twelve years he was at the top of our country. We thank him. We mourn for him. Now I'm asking you to hold for a short moment of grief. [[Those present persist for some time in dumb mourning.]] Thank you. [[Those present take their seats again.]] I can inform the House that, in accordance with Rule 64 of the Constitution, the Bureau of the National Council is carrying out the duties tomorrow until the fishing of the elected President of the Federal Republic of Germany. We will interrupt this meeting at 11.45 a.m. to 12.45 p.m. so that the Presidential Conference – that is, the three Presidents of the National Council and the four club members – will be held. the possibility to receive the mortal remains of our Federal President in their transfer to the Hofburg there. Tomorrow, at 10.15 a.m., we will be welcoming the newly elected President Dr. Heinz Fischer to his office. Following this, that is, at about 11 o'clock, a funeral celebration of the National Council and the Federal Council will take place. And following this funeral ceremony, all Members of the National Council and members of the Federal Council and members of the Presidential Conference have the opportunity to honor the dead, our President, in the office of Presidential Office. I would like to thank you and interrupt the sitting briefly.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3226	I'll start the interrupted session again. The official protocols of 69 and 70. Meeting of 28. In June 2004, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported to be Grossruck, Mag. Lunacek, Mag. Posch, shale mare and power. Weinzinger. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3259	The Federal Electoral Authority has received notices that the Deputies are Mag. Eduard Mainoni, Rudolf Nuremberger, Mag. Ulrike Sima waived their mandates. Instead of Deputies Mag. Eduard Mainoni was replaced by Member Markus Fauland, instead of Member Rudolf Nürnberger, Dr Richard Leutner, and instead of Deputies Mag. Ulrike Sima appointed Dr Elisabeth Hlavac to the National Council. Furthermore, the Federal Electoral Authority has issued a notice that Mr. Dr. Dieter Böhmdorfer was re-appointed on the occasion of his appointment as a member of the Federal Government. – This means that Member Anton Wattaul has been expelled from the National Council. As the electorate of the said Members is already present and the new Members are present in the House, I shall immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the scribe, the new ambassadors will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the author, Mr Jakob Auer, to read the vow formula and to call for the name.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3336	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3360	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3384	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner is represented by the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture Elisabeth Gehrer. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3412	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3648	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform the House that the Members of Parliament have requested Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr Bleckmann, to report to the Constitutional Committee on the application 430/A of Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr. Bleckmann concerning a federal law amending the Private Radio Act and other laws, a deadline until 8. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3669	The debate on points 1 to 4, 6 to 8, 10 to 12, 13 and 14, 17 to 20, and 21 and 22 of the agenda are proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We are therefore going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3696	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration and shape of the debates. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 140, Free 96 and Green 104 minutes. The House decides on this, and we shall therefore proceed to the vote at once. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted; we will therefore proceed in this way. 1. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (474 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Chemicals Act 1996 (Chemical Law Novelle 2004 – ChemGNov 2004) (566 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 285/A (E) by Dr Eva Glawischnig, colleagues on Austria's position on the reform of the EU's chemicals policy (567 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (503 e.g._Other Organiser Amendment of the Montreal Protocol on Substances resulting in a decomposition of the ozone layer (568, e.g.) 4. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (555 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Environmental Management Act 2001 (569 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3776	We now come to points 1 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There is no oral reporting. I inform you that Minister of State Dipl.-Ing. Pröll now has to be briefly at a special Council of Ministers in connection with the death of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. – Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. However, Pröll will soon arrive here. The club members have agreed that for this short period the government bank remains unoccupied. We are now going into the debate. First of all, Mr Krainer has spoken. He wants to talk to us for five minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3813	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's hard to speak here today. I am a little clumsy, and it would have been better for me and myself if we had postponed today's session on Friday. But since there seems to be consensus that we should do the agenda today, I would like to say a few words on the subject at least. I'm just trying hard to discuss the chemical law now. And I find this inappropriate and really embarrassing; I don't like it on and on myself very much and actually don't want to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3841	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. He too has 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3859	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Despite the current events, we have today to complete our agenda here. I therefore go into the first four items on the agenda. Among other things, we have to deal with the Environmental Management Act and also a novel to the Chemicals Act. It's not about Austria being number 1 in all international rankings regarding the situation of our environment. To this end, various measures, as well as regulatory measures, as well as voluntary environmental protection measures, especially in firms. This is also the purpose of the Environmental Management Act. In future, it will include further systems of operational environmental management in this environmental management system and will allow for administrative simplification for businesses. I think we all agree relatively well here that this is a step in the right direction and therefore this law is to be welcomed. The Chemicals Act is a national implementation of EU regulations. In this respect too, there is broad consensus that this is a step in the right direction – in the sense of our environment, in the sense of further improvement of the environmental situation in this country, which is already very good anyway. In both cases, I ask you to agree to these laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3896	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. 8 minutes speaking time. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3915	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have great understanding for Mr Kai Jan Krainer, who has found it difficult to speak on the matter. It's hard for me, too. And at least I would like to send from this point of view from the Dr. Thomas Klestils family the deep participation of the green club. It is, however, I think, in his sense – he has also made it possible for us to continue despite illness. work – to continue, and in this commemorative, I want to talk about the matter now and work on what it is our task to do. On the substance of the matter, which is now before the decision-making process: This is an international environmental protocol for approval. The Greens will, of course, agree. Furthermore, there is a novel on chemical law, essentially the implementation of EU directives, which we welcome, which we support and which we will also agree with. Unfortunately, a motion for a resolution has not been adopted in the Committee by us, which should have had a more critical impact on European chemical policy. I'm sorry. This is a very problematic situation, and more than a hundred chemicals currently known are to be re-registered. The whole system is now being watered down. A strong Austrian position would have been appropriate here. I regret that it is not possible to solve this by agreement. The fourth is the Environmental Management Act, which we believe has failed to improve. Unfortunately, we cannot agree to this novice. Two consents, two rejections on the part of the Green Club: Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3960	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e3978	Mr President. High house! I too find it very difficult to talk directly about the matter today. I think, however, that it is certain in the sense of the late Federal President that we are continuing the work and that we are deciding on this chemical law, which makes a very important contribution to the safety of people in Austria, to the environment and to the safety of health. I think it is important that there is also a change in the area of the Montreal Agreement that the less ozone-damaging substances, which, however, increasingly affect our environment, are also banned or the production of such substances is reduced. Ladies and gentlemen! I really ask you to agree precisely to these laws in terms of the environment and health.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4006	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4024	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The ozone hole was first mentioned in a report of the journal “Nature” 30 years ago, and it will take much more than 30 years for the first measures we have taken to protect the ozone layer to begin to work at all. At the end of the last Antarctic winter, the ozone hole has been measured to its second largest extent. It is now about three times the size of Europe, and I think that it is really appropriate to do something in the light of that. There are a number of international agreements to protect the ozone layer, to protect the climate. The Montreal Protocol is one of them. The cover reads: ‘Alternatives: None.” – I think that is rarely as literal as in this case. There are no alternatives if we do not protect our climate. Of course, our group will agree to the amendment of the Montreal Protocol. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4059	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4078	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A few comments about the Environmental Management Act and perhaps a few introductory and fundamental comments. Environmental management is concerned with the organisation of environmental protection in enterprises, in the development and management organisation. This means that the EMAS system helps to detect and eliminate the organisational, ecological and economic weaknesses. This gives particular attention to environmental protection in Austrian organisations. Yes, that goes on even further: With environmental management, environmental protection is specifically organised in Austrian companies. With this innovation, practical experience is included in the Environmental Management Act. All in all, then, it must be said: Austrian companies organize living sustainability, and that is a good thing. We agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4108	Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. 7 minutes speaking time. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4126	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Glawischnig has already said how the Green Club will behave and how we stand on this subject. I would just like to say a few words on sustainability, because I believe that this would be in some way in the sense of our late President Thomas Klestil. The issue of sustainability is far too little for me in our debates. This means that we also need to take into account and consider beyond our own lives how the following generations on this planet can achieve what resources they will find, how our children and children can live here. I believe that we need to take into account and address the issue of sustainability here in Parliament to a much greater extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4157	Mr Wittauer is now speaking to us for 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4175	Mr President. High house! Of course, the Chemicals Act or the Montreal Agreement on such a day is not necessarily a subject to be discussed. But I remember: There has been a lot of debate in the Committee on this matter. The Montreal Agreement, of course, is a positive one for everyone, because, as a result of this agreement, ozone reduction should be slowed down, products that are harmful should be removed from the market. The Chemicals Act is about safety, safety for the citizen, the exchange of information. It was high time this law was renewed or improved. I did not fully understand why the opposition was against such a subject, an environmental issue. Some critical remarks are all right, but in principle one should agree. What we decide here today is for the environment, is for the people, means more security, and I believe that this is a step in the right direction and that we have done something for the people with this law. I hope that the opposition will once again consider it and give its approval to all three points. The Montreal Convention is undisputed, there is a four-party consensus in this respect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4207	The next speaker is Mr Steier. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4226	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Deep participation and mourning move us today, and we want to share that with family members and family members. I am also allowed to comment briefly on the Environmental Management Act. On the occasion of the revision of the Environmental Management Act 2001, called UMG, the success story of this Environmental Management Act in Austria was conjured in the Environmental Committee. This can only be difficult to understand. They took the decision-making process of the UMG in 2001 with the aim of motivating businesses by deregulation to the EMAS certification, in concrete terms: the so-called display procedure for plant changes, in which an environmental expert is to ensure that no environmental or neighbouring interests are violated. The environmentalists are now in the precarious situation of not only dealing with complex legal problems, whose solution would in itself be reserved for the authorities, they are still fully liable for them. This represents a massive overestimation of the possibilities of environmental experts and gives the impression that the legislator is trying to steal responsibility from extremely complex materials. I should like to remind you that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have decided against massive protests in 2001 that we are advocating neighbouring and neighbouring rights and reducing environmental control. In the meantime, the practice shows that the legislator has clearly placed the wrong horse with the advertising procedure. Why, it's quite simple to explain: Only the least farms use it. In Vienna, 44 registered EMAS companies have not used any of this administrative simplification; in the federal states it is only one hand full. This is because, although companies want rapid procedures, they also want legal certainty through proper authorisation procedures. So even though there is a retrospect Your model has proved to be practical, ladies and gentlemen of the government, with the now present novel to the UMG one step further. Instead of resolving existing problems, it is deregulated further. We cannot give this our consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4263	The next speaker is Mr Sieber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4283	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. High house! I agree with the opinion of my previous speakers, who have meant that, despite our concern, we have to carry out our tasks here today. With the Environmental Management Act since 2001, we have a law that allows companies to take environmental measures on a voluntary basis. And it is precisely this voluntaryity that characterizes this law. More and more entrepreneurs in our country recognise that economic interests on the one hand and environmental protection on the other, and that voluntary certification is a very attractive and modern instrument. In June 2004, there were 266 establishments that had been registered and set themselves the higher requirements of the EMAS programme. These companies have recognised that it is paying off to take on responsibility themselves and thus to relieve themselves of government administrative activity. And the success gives them justice. There are still no major controls, but expert environmental experts can carry out unannounced checks at any time. In addition, this new legislation extends the supervisory measure to ensure that environmental experts carry out their activities with utmost care and continuously improve their expertise. This amendment will make adjustments resulting from the previous practice of the Environmental Management Act and will ensure greater legal certainty and clarity in the future. This will further increase the incentive for companies to obtain certification and provide a good service to the environment. In addition, other organisations with sustainable, EMAS-equivalent systems should also be registered in official directories. All these simplifications support companies that are pioneers in environmental protection, but of course they must continue to comply with precise rules and requirements and are regularly monitored. All in all, a template that can be accepted with good conscience in the sense of the environment. – Let’s do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4327	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4345	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, also difficult for me to go to the agenda and refer to the Chemicals Act in the light of the current events. I would just like to point out that it is important to adopt strict laws on health and the environment in the field of chemical policy. This law, ladies and gentlemen, is an important rule for the handling of the whole. That is why we will give our approval to this revision to the Chemicals Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4372	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Winkler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4393	Mr President. High house! The loss of our highly esteemed President of the Federal Republic of Germany is of course a cause for reflection and for great concern. Nevertheless, I believe that the issue of the environment was also a particular concern of our esteemed President of the Federal Republic of Germany. And since in the past too many criticisms have repeatedly been made that far too little is being done in this area, I can point out, on the basis of a few figures, how much has happened in this area, for example, since 1993. In this context, I can only mention that a total funding amount of €345.5 million has been generated with a total investment volume of €1.4 billion and therefore environmental measures have been put in place, giving Austria a pioneering role and a role model. It is precisely the laws that are to be adopted here today that are another milestone for a forward-looking and gripping environmental policy. Ministers of the Environment and Agriculture Ministers have already achieved many things in the past. And I should also like to mention our Minister Sepp Pröll, who is a guarantee that this gruesome environmental policy will continue in the future, that - I may mention it again - an environmental policy will also be continued in the sense of our highly esteemed late Mr. Federal President, which is also characterised by sustainability. In this sense, I can all call for support in the construction of this further milestone.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4430	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4448	Mr President. High house! Legal provisions on the industrial and industrial use of chemicals are a subject matter adapted to European chemical law by means of this novel. From my point of view, I would just like to point out that it would be necessary, above all at EU level, to make greater efforts to ensure that European chemicals policy is once again a top priority in terms of safety at work and the protection of consumers and the environment. Overall – as has already been noted by my previous speakers – these adaptations to EU law are necessary, which is why we will also give our approval to the novelle.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4476	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, three minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4494	Mr President. High house! I too can express my sincere participation and announce that, in view of the current events, I will only briefly address a few points of the current revisions and ratifications. Climate protection is a very special concern for us. This federal government and all of us take this very, very seriously and do a lot accordingly. Of course, it's in First and foremost, only small steps we take here. Nevertheless, the sum of these small steps has brought a considerable success in the field of environmental and climate protection. Austria is an environmental model country, Austria is certainly a pioneer among the EU-25, and with the measures that are being put in place here today, we are going on again a small but important step. In recent years, we have been able to counter the ozone reduction in particular, and we will continue to drive the protection of the ozone layer intensively. I should also like to point out that there has been a number of measures in the last two years, whether this was the Eco electricity Act or the road pricing or ecologisation in the tax reform. All of these are important steps that will enrich the overall package in the field of environmental protection and climate protection accordingly. I therefore believe that we are still on the right track with the measures taken. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4533	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. 3 minutes speaking time. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4552	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I too express my deep participation to the family of our esteemed President Dr. Klestil! In accordance with the objective to be achieved that hazardous substances will no longer enter the environment from 2020 onwards, all four parties are today grateful to call for the ban on the production and use of hazardous chemicals, the carrying out of a thorough test of all chemicals and no exceptions to chemical law for industrial policy reasons. Furthermore – and I think that is just as important – an alternative chemical research must be forced. The Montreal Protocol, the content of which is to regulate substances that lead to the decomposition of the ozone layer, has already significantly reduced global emissions of ozone-degrading substances. The contents of the Montreal Protocol on Ozone Harmful Substances are ratified in accordance with the results of the Beijing Conference. Our duty, I believe, is – and in it we are all happy to agree – to preserve our offspring a life-worthy and healthy environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4585	The next speaker is Mr Kainz. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4603	Mr President. High house! Undoubtedly, sorrow, sadness and our participation in the face of the tragic death of our President Dr. Kletil overshadow this plenary day. However, environmental protection and, above all, cooperation between States, as provided for in the Montreal Protocol, are undoubtedly within the meaning of our President-in-Office. Climate protection ensures the basis of life, obliges the people currently living to become active, also in responsibility for our children and the next gender ratio. No, no, 1979 at the first World Climate Conference in Geneva was the birth of climate protection. A further step was taken with the signing of the Kyoto Protocol in 1997. I think climate protection is also awareness-building. In this way, much is contributed to this in the sense of our climate alliance communities. With today's decision on the Montreal Protocol, we are taking a big step, including in terms of global climate protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4640	Since Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll has now arrived, I give him the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4658	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am deeply concerned that it was possible to attend the Special Council of Ministers, although important environmental issues were discussed here. Thank you for welcoming the High House! I would also like to make no further comments on the individual points in detail today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4682	The next speaker is Mr Schopf. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4701	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The government's proposal to the Environmental Management Act is, as I believe, problematic in terms of content. Finally, this is a new, additional hallucination of private control, which has been legally enabled since 2001. The basic problem here is that the best environmental management system cannot replace public responsibility and control in the environmental field. Ladies and gentlemen! The control of pollution cannot and must not be completely privatized. The amendments now proposed are intended to further privatise and thus to further simplify environmental self-control by individual undertakings. Privatisation of control brings not only less security, but also increased legal uncertainty. For example, the liability issues are largely unexplained in the event of damage. That is also the reason for my group, why we are not willing to give our approval to this government proposal. Such an extension is neither in the interests of the environment nor in the interests of the neighbours concerned nor in the interests of the workers and is therefore rejected, as already mentioned. In view of the low level of participation, it is clear to me that there is no reasonable reason for this extension either. Ladies and gentlemen! We need initiatives to achieve improvements in the combined sector of workers and environmental protection. A evasion in environmental control ultimately does nothing for employees and weakens the protection of the environment quite safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4731	The last speaker was Mr Oberhaidinger. He also wishes to speak for 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4751	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My participation is also valid for the family of our German president, who died in such tragic circumstances. Nevertheless, as many previous speakers have already said, we must finish our agenda, which we have set ourselves. At the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have dealt with a lot of points. Nevertheless, I would like to express my regret that the environmental report, both in terms of content and design, cannot be discussed in plenary. I'm very sorry. To amend the Montreal Protocol, I would like to say very briefly that the media have often pointed out that, together with Denmark, we are the pioneers in reducing emissions of air conditioning and air conditioning equipment. And I'm sorry because the ozone hole knows no limits. Unfortunately, the negative effects caused by other countries affect us too. Perhaps it is quite in the sense of our late Federal President, who was very active outside politics, that we also carry the subject of the environment more externally and urge our neighbours to see the implementation of the Montreal Agreement actually taken seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4782	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft Chemical Law Novelle 2004 together with the title and receipt in 566 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this bill, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimous and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 567 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – The report finds the majority and is therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Amendment of the Montreal Protocol on Substances resulting in a decomposition of the ozone layer to be approved in 503 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft Federal Law amending the Environmental Management Act, together with the title and receipt in 569 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to be a sign of approval. – The request is the majority of the House and is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – The request was adopted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 5. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (479, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Family Compensation Act 1967 (562 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4880	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to the honourable Member. Scheucher-Pichler. Your welcome time is 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4904	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of the amendment of the Family Tax Compensation Act, which was gladly discussed in the Family Committee very constructively and consensus-orientedly, and which was also adopted unanimously there, a further expansion of the school travel aid will take place from the next school year, i.e. from 2004/2005 onwards. In future, this will also support the journey to multi-day school events which are not held at the school location and take place outside the school period. I think this is a very encouraging extension of school travel aid, which is also very family-friendly and, above all, youth-friendly. After the reintroduction of the home aid for apprentices, this is an important improvement that this Federal Government has made. I am pleased that the competent State Secretary Ursula Haubner has also promised in the Committee that, after an evaluation phase for this home travel aid for apprentices, further discussions will be held on further improvements in the field of boarding school students. I think this too is a good approach that we can then discuss. The fact is that the increasing practical design of curriculum is important, that we stand by it that this is an important contribution to better entry into work and that this practical training requires additional internships. It is estimated that around 28 000 months of internship per school year are applied, and this also results in the redefinition of the school path, so to speak, to extend the travel services and to support them through the family compensation fund. So there is a new concept, a new definition of the school path. The reason for this innovation was the unsatisfying situation in the health and nursing schools, where, due to the widest possible interpretation of the school concept, the journey to practical training in the hospital is now considered to be a free ride without a simultaneous visit to the school at the same location. As early as 2000, we held a very intense discussion in Carinthia, in which the representatives of all parties took a very constructive and positive role, and took a decision on this subject in the Land Day and also in the Land Government and requested the Federal Government to become an initiative. I should like to thank the representatives of all parties who have been constructively involved in this and have now made this free travel possible for those concerned. This also applies to internships in hotel schools, in agricultural schools, at higher technical educational institutions; there are a variety of special training courses, and I think this is a very important aspect. We cannot all be involved, it is important that we enter into an internship employment contract and thus determine exactly which internships are now supported. The expected additional costs for this initiative amount to approximately € 0.7 million. No additional costs are incurred for 2004 as they are organised by re-transmissions. I think it is a very positive aspect today that we are working very constructively and consensually here. I believe that this is a very important point, including in terms of quality of training for our young people. It is important to ensure the choice of the desired or necessary practice place, and this should not fail in financial conditions. Through increased mobility, we also facilitate the organisation of practical places for schools. So these are quite positive aspects in terms of training opportunities for our young people, but also in terms of further support for families. I thank you for the constructive cooperation on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4956	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e4974	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to express my participation at the beginning of the family of the late President of the Federal Republic of Germany and I will also be very brief on this occasion. On the subject of school leave: We will agree to the Government's proposal, which is in line with a long-standing concern of social democracy. It is a regulation that adapts to the changing circumstances in the training of many young people. Of course, the definition, redefinition of the school path, in order to offer the opportunity to obtain school-free travel assistance even for trips to internships, is only welcome. I would like to refer briefly to another point that we have already discussed in the Committee, namely that there is still a problem with apprentices, namely, apprentices who are studying several weeks in a boarding school, who receive only once a month a flat rate that does not cover travel costs. The boardings are usually closed at the weekend, and it was about creating a way for apprentices to go home on the weekend. Mrs Haubner said in committee that she would look at the problem and evaluate the situation. . I would now also like to make a request to this effect. This request concerning “improvement of school travel aid for apprentices” represents the situation I have briefly outlined, and with it an evaluation is required, with the aim of finding a way for apprentices to be given the opportunity or to change their financial situation in such a way that they can travel home from boarding schools on the weekend. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5013	Mrs Kuntzl, the request has not been submitted. You have to read it. I would recommend you go to the speaker's desk again and read these eight lines. [[Abg. May. Kuntzl: Someone else will do that!]] - Please, as you wish. The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5042	Mr President. High house! Family policy is good if it is implemented in many areas. In this respect, the response of policy to the new situation in schools, namely to the increase in practical education and the associated new definition of school routes, is very good. It's not for nothing, it's also become a consensual matter. The new definition of the school path and the replacement of the cost of the school path for practical teaching are a great relief for parents, for families, especially if they have several children in these schools. These are particularly affected by health education, tourism, but also higher schools, which are trained in vocational training, are increasingly a very reasonable new way, namely practice-oriented teaching. On Mrs Kuntzl's request, which has not been tabled: In principle, we can talk about the means of the flatrates. It is clear that some people are favoured by the fact that in other situations they do not fully cover the effort. This is a discussion that can be held without further delay. Not applicable, however, is the argument that the situation of apprentices would be worse compared to that of the student in this case, because the home travel allowance, which both students and apprentices receive, is a flat-rate grant in both cases and acts as a flat-rate allowance. For the Freedom Party, I claim that we have always insisted on equality between apprentices and students, and also demonstrated this in Carinthia, where apprentice-free rides have been improved for example. This was then understood at the federal level. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This proposal to achieve equality between pupils and apprentices is in itself good. In this case equality has been achieved, so the argument is not appropriate, but there will be a wide-ranging discussion about the means of the flatrates.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5085	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. Speech time: Seven minutes. – Mr Geldernitz and Mr Collegue Van der Bellen, may I ask you not to turn your back on the speaker! Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5109	Mr President. High house! We also welcome and support this present request concerning the extension of school travel aid, which is based on the current state of the art, which is to thank God for coming to schools, namely that there are more internships and that the training situation has changed. That's a very positive sign. I would remind you, however, that the better is still the enemy of the good. I remember with grief that there have been times in Austria when the students have also been paid the trip home or the study place, something we can only dream of today, which for the affected parents – most often the parents – is also a huge financial burden in addition to the study fees. Unfortunately, over the past few years, we have made a very clear step back in this area – which is a longer period of time. This is very bad in so far as it promotes inequality in the education system and does not contribute to the fact that all those who come from different levels of education have the same opportunities to make a training. Even in the area of these student free rides, it is so that unfortunately not all still have the same right. One point to which this SPÖ application is also aimed is the question of apprentice-free travel when the apprentices complete their training in boarding schools. That would be a very, very important area. That is why we support this SPÖ proposal. It was also true that Mrs Haubner, the Secretary of State, clearly stated in the Committee that she wanted to evaluate the current state of affairs. On that point, the request is also written, and I think that everyone should actually be able to agree, because it is in the sense of the matter and because all parties have also welcomed the fact that the Secretary of State has said that. It is simply about ensuring a lot more liability, so to speak. I don't think that can hurt in any case. One point that is also a pity and where it is clear that funding is simply not available at the moment is the fact that there is no possibility of paying at least the journey by public transport – once and for all the return journey – for internships made or completed abroad. This means that pupils, whose families simply don't have so much money, are clearly disadvantaged here. I am very sorry, therefore, because traineeship abroad brings a lot to the different school types, namely not only the experience in another country, but it is very often linked to foreign language experiences. It would be very important to take a step further and also to ensure these journeys so that there is equality in this regard. The last point I would like to address is that the new improvements as well as existing support apply only to students of public schools or schools with public law. This is a shame because private schools are not covered and the parents whose children go to private schools through the school money they pay, without having to bear an additional burden and the cost of travel to it. – This would not cost the world, but would be a very clear sign of a very open educational policy, as we would like it to be for Austria. We agree with this motion for a law, because it clearly represents an improvement in the state of the world, but we wish - and will be in this direction continue to work – that the disadvantages still exist are opened up so that everyone really gets the same opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5160	The next speaker is Mrs Stadler. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5178	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! As a family politician and especially as a family politician in the rural area, I welcome this government template because it closes and closes an important gap. After we have already introduced travel aid for boarding school students, including apprentices who complete block training and schooling in the boarding school, the travel aid is now also granted to students of higher vocational schools who complete compulsory internships. This is also a particular concern for rural areas, because in such cases it is necessary to complete particularly long distances and which is also associated with a higher financial burden on our families. For this reason, I believe, this is a good contribution for the families in our country. A word on a committee statement, a clear determination of the Family Committee, on the need to provide a solution between the Ministry of Social Security, the Ministry of the Interior and the federal states for children subject to compulsory education, as provided for in the agreement between the Federal Government and the countries referred to in Article 15a on measures to provide basic services for those in need of assistance and protection in Austria. As members of the Family Committee, we are particularly concerned that a good solution can also be found for these children in the framework of a school-free travel aid. Finally, I would like to thank all family politicians of the opposition for deciding on this government proposal today. It is a sign that we jointly support our families, that we support them with good measures, because our society is only doing well if our families are well.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5209	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5227	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should like to make the following request from the Socialist Group: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I also ask you for your consent and support, and I think we should not only talk about consensus, but also live it in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5281	Mrs Mag. Trunk's motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5303	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Through the increasing practical design of curriculums, many school events take place outside the school location. As a result, the need for a redefinition of the school path can be taken into account in the existing travel services of the family load balance. The reason for the change is in particular the unsatisfactory situation in health and nursing schools, where the school location for theoretical training is usually the same as the hospital where practical training takes place. Internships similar to those in the health and nursing schools are also provided for in various higher technical training institutions, in the field of agricultural and forestry specialised schools and in the field of various other vocational schools. However, for these and other schools with special training, it is de facto impossible to include all trips to the internships in favour of a travel aid. The aim is therefore to extend the school's path to compulsory internships, which take place outside the school's time to a certain extent and to prove the school by means of a trainee's employment contract. In addition, the education concept for medical and technical training in the field of health and nursing schools will be extended to practical training. The aim is to facilitate the choice of practical places and to improve training opportunities through increased mobility by providing a travel aid for compulsory internships.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5336	Mr Oellinger. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5354	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What would have to be improved in the area of family policy and especially school and home travel aid has already been reported by our family spokesperson, or she has offered you detailed proposals here. In my contribution, I would rather refer to the fact that Mr Scheucher referred to something which I would not like to contradict. This is not an accusation to you, Mrs Scheucher, but you have said that it is a further extension of school travel aid and a further improvement. - Yeah, you could assume that. All you have to know is, Mrs Scheucher – you were not in Parliament at the time; I am grateful to God or how ever you want to call it in 1995/1996 – is: These were the years in which there was a massive reduction in the amount of school travel aid, family aid and the pension fund. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] We obviously experience a cycle every few years: There is a limitation – and then the improvement is made. Only: If you look at the condition before, it is not necessarily the restoration of the old state, but partly improvements in this area that go on or go less far. But some things will be forgotten, Mrs Brinek, and that is the point I wanted to point out to you. At first, 1995/96, there was a massive reduction in the number of access conditions, so that students no longer had the opportunity to receive a pension, as before, over a small amount of employment et cetera. Another important point – I can remember very well, Mrs. Brinek: Family allowances for children living abroad have been abolished. At that time – you may remember – it was said: If there's money again, we'll get it back in. – Now there is obviously money, but it will not be introduced! I would just like to say, Mrs Brinek: It is redistributed here: One is taken, the other is given. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is always the case in budget planning!]] This may also be useful and correct in detail, but you have to look at it carefully! Another final point, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen: It's not just about giving, it's also about taking. Where we have been repeatedly criticizing the same criticism over the years when it comes to reforms in the family compensation fund: A contribution justice, Mrs State Secretary, we do not have! No matter how it is taken to see whether the contribution to the Family Allowance Fund is now seen as a reserved wage component of the employed or – as a representative of the Federal Chamber of Commerce would probably prefer – so that employers pay these contributions: It is taken from a particular pot, namely the wage sum of self-employed workers, most of it. But other groups – for example politicians, if they have no secondary employment – that also benefit their children pay nothing! Self-employed don't pay anything either, farmers de facto nothing! – The list would be extended. Of the contribution-righteousness, when it comes to benefits in the family compensation fund, one hears again and again only: She's not being practised. On this occasion you should remember: When it comes to improvements, improvements are partly redistributions. And when it comes to contribution justice, there is still a lot to be done in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5400	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. 3 minutes speaking time. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5418	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! The four-party agreement on school travel aid, which, in addition to school leave, regulates financial support for the availability of the traineeship, is very welcome. The previous speakers have already pointed this out in detail. On the occasion, however, I would like to thank all those who put their work in the service of society – whether in tourism, in landscape care or in the care sector. I would particularly like to highlight those who decide to take out training in the health and care sector. The government's image and advertising campaign for the care professions is very important to me in this regard. All who are already active in this field are grateful for their sacrifice and performance.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5449	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for Grossmann to the speaker's desk. Desirable time: 4 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5467	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! It is very gratifying that, in some cases, the fundamental commitment of all political groups to promoting youth is also being fulfilled in political practice, as in the case of this four-party request for a change in the family burden equalization law. There are few such gratifying moments, but there are them. They may remember the four-party agreement regarding “election Day is the same day of the day”, where reason has also won and by this the unworthy state that thousands of young people have been deprived of the right to vote every year has finally been eliminated. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is about the fact that many young people who are doing practical training – which we all, especially the economy, can only wish for – have been excluded from school travel aid and are now seeking a reasonable and just solution and at least for students. Unfortunately, the apprentices look slightly different, but that has already been done by my colleagues. But in total, you see: It is a matter of getting together to take a serious stand, to weigh arguments, to shed light on different points of view – even if you see things from different angles; this is in the nature of the matter. Then, too, it is possible to achieve reasonable solutions for the benefit of people. I would like to see more examples of this, but unfortunately your constant decommissioning practice in the committees, as at last in the Family Committee, goes in a different direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5504	Mrs Rossmann is now speaking. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5523	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! This extension of apprentice-free travel is actually the logical further step, after the general introduction of apprenticeship-free travel, to extend it to internships. At this point, I would like to remind you that already the government agreement of 2000, on the initiative of the liberals, has already set out that the free movement of apprentices should be introduced in a general way throughout Austria. They didn't realize there was an apprentice free ride. There the federal state of Carinthia and his head of state Dr. Jörg Haider were once more pioneers than they were about to allow the apprenticeship free ride in general! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context I also recall the apprenticeship premium of € 1 000 for each apprentice. This was only possible by the Federal Government, and it carries a liberal manuscript: That too was our demand! I am speaking on this point, which concerns a family policy issue, as well as an educational speaker, because apprenticeship training in Austria generally needs a further boost in quality. I also know from my time as State Secretary that the social partners were only very difficult to move to create new careers in general. [[Abg. Riepl: That's not true! That's not true!]] I am thinking only of the discussion that I myself have held on the topic of the spa teacher. Ask your colleagues at the apprenticeship advisory board how much the spa teacher has been blocked! Here I come back to the Federal Republic of Carinthia: Under the head of state Dr. Jörg Haider it is possible that there is this spa teacher, namely as a pilot attempt in the country Carinthia. The economy needs and wants this spa teacher, because the spas are built everywhere, and the hoteliers have also invested in additional wellness facilities – and there is no professional image for it. Take note of this! I am willing to discuss this with you in more detail. I was really concerned about this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I also say: A further step must be taken towards a general equality between apprentices and pupils, namely that it cannot be possible for apprentices to continue paying €1,000 for the professional maturity test. I know that the Chamber of Labour supports it in part. Finally, €1,000 is left. Explain She wants to do this to a young person who, in addition to a degree in teaching, wants to make the professional maturity test that he has to pay for it – in view of the additional effort he has by making this exam next to the profession! I also said to Mr Bartenstein: There must be a change here! It is necessary to make money available here so that the apprentices can make a free matura at the end of the day. – That would be in the sense of social justice, and that means equality. However, I have not heard anything from you, from your group at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I also say: The apprenticeship offensive must be lived in all areas! If you look at the state of Vienna, where there are currently 500 teaching places for searching, then on the other hand you have to see the positive examples: These are once more Carinthias, but also the federal state of Tyrol, where a lot more teaching places are offered than there are people who are seeking a teaching. – This too is active youth employment policy at country level! In the Federal Republic of Carinthia, there was an apprenticeship offensive in time, which is now beginning to work. There are also new ways to go and more and more apprentices have taken up the national service. In the meantime, we have 130 apprentices in Carinthia. [[Abg. Shopf: That's so little!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] – This is a tangible youth employment policy, not just a lip commitment, but active action! In very good cooperation with the Chamber of Workers and the AMS, I say, the head of the state of Carinthia really made a quantum leap in apprenticeship training. I would like to point out something that I particularly like, namely the approach that we have to think about what is with those maturants who actually do not want to study. What are we doing with these maturants? Many maturants are handcrafted, many maturants want to complete a teaching in practice and after the matura. In Germany this is going and going, 15 percent of the maturants in Germany complete a teaching after the Matura. In Austria this is almost a taboo theme. At this point I come back to speak to Carinthia, even if you don't want to hear it. In Carinthia, there is a pilot experiment that AHS graduates who want to learn an IT profession also receive additional funding within the framework of the dual training system in order to be able to complete the teaching after the Matura. I think that's a real step. There is a great deal to be done in apprenticeship training, but I can say that in terms of the exploitation of all social opportunities and grants, the federal government has taken on a pioneering role here. I also personally thank Mrs. State Secretary for the fact that she really sets accents on family politics – accents that you could have set for many years but have not yet set. [[towards SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5597	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5615	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! The increasingly practical training in Austria provides compulsory internships in the curriculum and, of course, improves school quality. With the amendment of the Family Tax Compensation Act, it is now possible that pupils will also receive travel expenses for their school route, and that is good that way. This, too, raises the quality of the school, because it allows for a greater choice of practical places. The visit of a school must not depend on the income of the parents. We are in favour of equal opportunities for young people in access to a wide range of training opportunities. Parents of children who attend vocational schools often have other expenses to bear, for example for clothing – I am thinking in particular of hotel schools – and therefore it is a pleasure for this government to show itself to be particularly family-friendly, not only about family or child-friendliness, but also about measures. In addition to the child's allowance, the parent's period, the increase in commuting fees, the child's surcharges to the single-earner's discount amount, and the increase in the earn limit, this is another measure to strengthen our families. I am pleased with the agreement on this measure within the meaning of our families, in the sense of our young people and in the sense of our school quality.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5651	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Mulder 4 minutes with us. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5670	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleagues have already mentioned it: The Socialist Group will, of course, give its approval to this bill. This novel is based on the changed internships of the students and is undoubtedly an educationally relevant measure. As I have taught myself at a vocational school, I know how important the importance of practical training for young people is. Even if we give this novel our approval and welcome it in principle, I would like to point out once again that there should be an evaluation of the gaps in the equality between students and apprentices. We should not be half-way here, and we should also grant these young people a right to school travel aid from the place of residence to the internal vocational school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5697	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. Speaking time: 3 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5715	Mr President. High house! I would like to follow up on what Mrs Grossmann said, namely that it is important to have a dual training system in Austria. Especially the apprenticeship is one that acts exemplaryly in this regard: The theory and school are linked to an apprenticeship, i.e. to practice. Many higher schools now take this into account and establish a link between the learner in school and practice. It is very gratifying that practical design is increasing in the curriculum, not only in the apprenticeship area, but also in higher schools, in HTLs, in hotel specialist schools, especially in the gastronomy sector. The dissatisfaction that has led, as it were, to present this government proposal is dissatisfaction, particularly in the health and health sector. It is all the more gratifying that we are able to respond immediately and provide a discount and support in terms of travel costs for those students whose internship is not directly located at the school. I think that is something very positive, and it has also been necessary to take this development into account in the balance of family loads. I think that this means an improvement for the Austrian school system and therefore also a higher equal opportunities for young people, because young people have no influence on whether training places and internships are together or not. I would also like to say something to the apprentices. I think the apprentices have a very good support. There are also for those apprentices who Internation is a travel aid. However, we can already discuss whether the amount is justified. If you compare students who travel home every day, and those who drive once a week, it is indeed the case that the person who uses public transport every day is supported to a higher degree. We can discuss this in the Committee. Otherwise I thank you for this paper.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5758	Now, Mrs Deputies is speaking. Binder 3 minutes to us. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5776	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The government template currently being dealt with concerns, above all, the amendment of the family tax compensation law; in concrete terms, the extension of school travel aid for events, courses or internships not taking place at the school location. We agree, of course, with this change, because it is a long-standing demand from us Social Democrats, who are being implemented today, and we welcome that. Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment also has a lot to do with rights, rights that children or young people have, and therefore I would like to mention one point, namely that I am very sad that our request for strengthening the rights of the child was postponed in committee. The various arguments for this have been exchanged. I very much hope, however, that our proposal in the next committee will be negotiated very intensively, very seriously and also with the necessary emphasis, because it is primarily about the rights of children being enshrined in the Austrian Constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5806	The next speaker is Mr Principal. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5825	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This federal law closes a gap in the aid for travel. The Government template provides that, from September 2004, compulsory internships for the school route can be sought for travel aid. It is essential that this is an internship required in the curriculum. This includes, for example, students of hotel-based schools, higher technical teaching institutions, agricultural and forestry schools and so on. The Ministry estimates that it will be around 28 000 months of compulsory internships. With this decision, we are taking a valuable step towards supporting families and young people in training. That is why we are happy to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5852	Mrs Haubner is now speaking. – You are speaking, Mrs State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5872	Mr President. High house! I would like to thank you for the previous remarks, because it has clearly expressed the concern of all four parties to close a gap here – to close a gap for young people who have their training in the field of vocational education and, on the other hand, to complete compulsory internships during the year or with an early end of the school year. We are creating a solution which is not only a political desire for years, but also, above all, a desire that has been made to us by those concerned over and over again. Very own-initiative – and I also say this here in front of the House – were the pupils of the health and nursing professions, because they have more and more with internships that also take place irregularly during the year, and above all with internships that are not on the site. Therefore, it is essential to do something here as a family policy, because parents sometimes have to spend a lot of money on travel costs, on the other hand, these internships are an important contribution to good training for our youth. I would like to thank you very much for today's decision on this four-party agreement, and would like to note the following – as one previous speaker has already said – that: It is a clear improvement, it is equality, and I do not think that we are continuing to do so. It is true that we can only compare between those who regularly go home from the school location and thus have the possibility of a free ride, and those who are irregularly driving and therefore only have the possibility of a school travel aid. These are also those apprentices who want to go home for the weekend or go home. So there is still the school travel aid, and we have now also granted it for the internships, because there is no possibility of introducing regularity in the tariff offer, but we only have the possibility of travel costs depending on the kilometres. I think that is not only the closing of a gap, but also the equal treatment of those apprentices who want to go home for the weekend and need this financial support. I would perhaps like to point out that this financial support was reintroduced by this Federal Government after it was abolished by an earlier government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I thank you once again for your support for the families. For me, this is a redistribution in the most positive sense. In fact, we should divert the funds where we need them: to the families, so that they can also enable their children to have a good education. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5934	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5952	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I will not take advantage of my speaking time for a given occasion. We will be all right in extending the travel aid, and we will also agree to it. You may, however, be able to overcome our request for extension to apprentices today. Luckily, only the one or the one who is an apprentice has colleague Fuhrmann. Unfortunately, tens of thousands don't have this possibility. If a young person has a teaching place, he is well, but many are looking for a teaching place and can't get it. A sentence on family policy. Family policy is not all right, it's not even well. In particular, the number of unemployed in June shows us that the first “sacrifices” – under quotation marks – are child-relating women who do not create child benefits after two and a half years of age and who unfortunately need to be noted in this unemployment statistics – 94 000 women looking for work. I don't think money alone is a successful family policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e5988	Next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6007	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, The current economic report by the Austrian Federal Government shows that success can be achieved with well-trained, motivated workers even in difficult situations. “Whoever stops getting better has stopped being good!” – This sentence is already read in the “Action Plan for Education, Training and for Youth” by Federal Minister Gehrer. The extension of school travel aid to compulsory internships is therefore not only a measure for the benefit of the Austrian school youth and its families, it is also a measure within the meaning of our economy. The high quality of teaching in our schools and the good work of teachers are appreciated. At least 79 percent of the Austrians conjure up our education system with “very good” or “good”. Since 1995, a student increase of 13 percent has occurred in the higher education schools, with an increase of 113,000 to 128,000 students. In other words, today about 70 percent more young people are attending a higher education school than a higher general education school in upper secondary school. Our excellently differentiated training system is a reason for Austria to have the lowest youth unemployment in the EU. These successes have not only been sealed by the major milestones of government policy, some of which are completely new ways, but also by the many small steps, the constant improvements and further developments of existing measures, such as the expansion of road aid. Even in small sizes: “He who stops getting better has stopped being good!” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6050	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6070	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The decision making of this Government template on extending the travel aid to practical training has once again produced a similarity with regard to freedom of movement for all in training. I would like to make a few comments on Mr Kuntzl's request: Firstly, it is a pity that we received this motion for a resolution only about an hour ago, and secondly, when examining the request, it has become apparent that it is not necessary, and therefore it is not necessary, because home travel aid applies not only to students but also to apprentices. This home travel allowance is available to all those who do not travel home from their apprenticeship or school place every day. I would like to reply to Mr Heinisch-Hosek's comments: Even if you say today that family policy is in trouble in Austria, I can tell you that this is not the case. Of course, it is your right to turn and turn some things as you like, but you should stick to the facts. In particular, child care money facilitates many families to reconcile work and family and is a milestone in family policy. This also proves a European comparison that shows that Austria really offers benefits for families here. I would like to mention that we have done a lot: whether it be the increase in family allowances, whether it be the family hospice, whether it be the care allowance from birth, or the redundancies that also benefit families, whether it be the anchoring of family and women-specific measures in the course of the pension reform and whether it be the measures now taken with 1. ==References== I would also like to mention the tax reform, the family package in this tax reform and, of course, the right to part-time until the seventh year of life – until the fourth year of life, this has been possible so far. I would ask you to agree to this request. Unfortunately, we cannot accept the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6114	Last word: Mr. Dr. Rada. 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6132	Mr President. High house! I also spoke at the end of the debate, because I was almost saddened by the tears when Mrs Rossmann explained what had happened. First, the government parties take away something from everyone else, then they give a bit of something back, and now we have to celebrate it. – That was the first reason why I made a statement. Secondly, Today, by-catches are also being discussed again and again about the modality of teaching practices. That's where I want to repeat: In the curriculum, it is stated that HLA students and HBLA students must make teaching internships. However, there is no guarantee that they will also find a suitable place, but parents and all the others, including the students themselves, are invited to find such a place. It would therefore be time, in the sense of a modern teaching policy, to provide education policy to these young students as well. They say they have this place, not only to promise, but to guarantee.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6168	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 479 of the supplements. Whoever agrees to this bill, I ask for a sign. – Adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft law in third reading, I ask for a sign. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Andrea Kuntzl, colleagues with regard to improving school travel aid for apprentices. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign. [[Abg. ==References====External links==]] Mr Wittauer, do you agree or not? – This too is not a voting behaviour. [[Abg. Wittauer goes into a cage.]] - He doesn't agree. This does not give the majority. The application is rejected. 6. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (511, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law establishing a “Brenner Base Tunnel Aktiengesellschaft” and amending the Federal Act establishing a “Brenner Eisenbahn GmbH” (578 d.B.) 7. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (537, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Italian Republic on the construction of a railway tunnel on the Brennerachse (579 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on amendment 423/A by Mr Mag. Eduard Mainoni, Werner Miedl, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Bundesbahngesetz, the Bundesbahn-Pensionsgesetz, the General Social Security Act and the Railway Act 1957 (580 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6267	We now come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Seven minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6297	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! These agenda items, which we are discussing here today, are very, very important, very important items on the agenda. All that belongs to the Brenner Base Tunnel, to the construction societies, to the agreement between the Republic of Italy and Austria, will be dealt with more precisely by other speakers of the Socialist Group. I can also say here in advance that we will, of course, give our approval to this project, because of course we also see that it is a very, very important transport policy measure. Secondly, which is also included in these agenda items, namely the Federal Railway Act and that part of the Federal Railway Act, which was taken out of the overall legal context a few months ago, namely the agreements on service rights and pension rights. We will also be able to agree to this part today, because we assume that the negotiations between trade unions, employees and employers have been organized in such a way that the contents of these negotiations can be found in this legislative text and that we can therefore also give our assent to this part of the law. I would have to make a number of comments on the Austrian Federal Railways directly, but it will, as I believe, give, on other occasions, the opportunity to present the views of the Social Democrats in this House again more clearly on the topic of Austrian Federal Railways. I do not think that today is the occasion to have this rather controversial debate, and so today I limit my speech to those words. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6327	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6346	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It is important that we debate such great decisions as we make today, even here in the House. Today we decide to set up the Brenner Base Tunnel Aktiengesellschaft on the basis of an agreement with Italy and will subsequently build a European stock company – one of the first European stock companies – together with Italy to build the Brenner Base Tunnel. It is noteworthy that the country of Tyrol is also half involved in this Austrian stock company. This participation must take place immediately after the company has been established. This should be of course because, despite federal competence, the country is behind such a large construction project with greater financial resources. I would also like to thank the head of state Van Staa, in particular our Secretary of State Kukacka and the Minister for Transport Gorbach, for starting this largest construction project within Europe with the necessary and offered hurry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] How important this is can only be expected if I tell you that since last year, since the expiry of the ecopoints system, a traffic increase over the burner on the road has taken place by more than 25 percent. We are always hard to explain what that means, but these are 1 100 trucks every day – compared to March this year with the previous year – more. This is all the traffic traffic in Spielfeld, on the Pyhrn motorway! The total traffic there is the increase from last year to the year over the burner. Of course it is clear that a hole through the mountain alone is not enough. A functioning infrastructure is the requirement that a shift to the rail can take place at all. If I don't have the necessary railways, I can't move traffic from the road to the rail either. At the same time, more than ever before, the Federal Government is taking accompanying measures – by the federal and state governments, I must say. On the one hand, the reform of the Austrian Federal Railways – where the Secretary of State really worked out great thanks to all Tyroleans – created the conditions for a modern railway with the creation of a powerful operational structure on the rails. I believe that with more customer-friendliness, greater flexibility and a more modern organisation, the Austrian Federal Railways also have an attraction for rail transport. On the other hand, we also decide today on measures to further reduce costs in the rail sector. The Federal Government is already working on the implementation of the 2005 Action Plan, which Mrs Lichtenberger would like to present in a motion for a resolution. To this end, I would like to say that this action plan has already been included in the work programme of the Transport Ministers in all its points and that in the near future a report by the Transport Ministers on the state of play in the implementation of the 2005 action plan is to be expected. In any event, I am pleased that those things that we have been implementing for a long time also receive your consent. However, we, my group and I, will unfortunately have to reject this motion for a resolution, for the reason that these measures have already been implemented. I hope that our common interest in shifting road transport from road to rail will be accompanied, in particular, by a reasonable road cost directive, whereby I very much call on Mr Lichtenberger to work with the heart and the brain in the European Parliament to ensure that a sustainable and environmentally sound transport policy is carried out at European level and that cross-financing can be achieved from road to rail for the construction of this large construction project for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6413	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. 7 minutes speaking time. Is that your last speech here? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: (on the way to the speaker's desk) No, not yet!]] Please tell us in time!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6447	Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing here with two points on rail transport in this agenda block: first, the question of the future of the Austrian Federal Republic. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. First of all, to create a monopoly to fight it so that you can serve your good friends with good lines, I think I'm a wrong process in terms of federal railways, in terms of public transport as a whole! We will, of course, not agree with this – not only but above all, because of it! Also, the regulations concerning employees are not satisfactory from our point of view. Let me now turn to the issue of Brenner base tunnels. If I could share Mr Hakl's optimism, I would not have to make the request that I will now make, because only with the establishment of these contracts and with the promises that this tunnel will be built sometime, the problems of traffic in the Alps cannot be solved. It is still lacking, in a blatant way, accompanying measures to ensure that this tunnel can be used at all. Furthermore, there is a lack of control measures, measures in the direction of road restrictions, because if the heavy road traffic – and this is probably a very banal situation – remains as cheap as it is now, this tunnel will not be used. Even in the newspaper of the GSV – I can only recommend it; the GSV itself calls itself “forum for transport quality” – it is stated that the financing question of the Brenner base tunnel is far from where it is announced that one is being. In this article it is very striking that you will not be able to build the Brenner Base Tunnel with the proceeds from ticket sales. Much more concern, however, is that due to the low rates of road pricing and the lack of controls – and this is not in European hands, but very well in Austrian hands! – this tunnel will not be able to be used. That is my main concern in this regard. I would like to quote numbers here, ladies and gentlemen, which prove that the current profitability account is so far beyond a possibility of utilization that, when it comes to a secondary route, one has to talk about its decommissioning. Ladies and gentlemen, in this way, Potemkinian villages are created, with which the population is put in front of the nose, in order to imagine that sometime, perhaps in 15 years, there will be a traffic solution in the Inner Valley, only: If there are no accompanying measures, there will be no solution! I call on you today to finally take accompanying measures in this context – controls, corresponding driving bans and regulatory measures – to finally address you from the coalition parties! If my colleague Karin Hakl here says that everything is already on track anyway, I can only be very surprised about it because there are really no effects visible. That's why I'm bringing him with it. Motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lichtenberger, colleagues, on the necessary transitional and accompanying measures for the establishment of a Brenner base tunnel. I am very sorry that it is not even possible for you today from the coalition parties to jump over your own shadows and decide what you always emphasize that you really want to have it. Clearly, this will is in fact not to be present. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's inevitable! If you are not only concerned with the construction of a tunnel, but with the solution of traffic problems, then these measures must be put in place! If the government wants to signal that seriousness, then it should Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, what we have requested today and what the Tyrolean Landtag has called for unanimously – and not play the old party policy game: What the opposition is asking for can't be right at all! Unfortunately, that's how it always comes from you. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I appeal to you: Voices Do you want to know what you want again and again – in newspapers et cetera! – Anything else would be very oblivious today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6568	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenberger by Mrs Lichtenberger, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. – By the way, your formulation is entered in the “golden book” by the “Potemkinschen Dorfs, with which the population hangs a carrot in front of the nose”. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6595	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Lichtenberger said that, today's conclusion here was as likely as the rest of the legislative period with her, we would have to invent reasons to reject her requests. – I always feel that it’s the other way around, because: We have long decided on things you put forward in your request, because it is clear to all of us that all this needs to be done to bring traffic from road to rail. There are a lot of concepts to be implemented: Transport management systems, transport policies et cetera; but, of course, financing is also an important issue. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now we are at Phase 2, where for the first time – and there is a need for great praise to Minister Gorbach; I think we all agree – in four months, an international agreement with Italy could be concluded, ensuring that phase 2 can be implemented. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But it is never enough for you, Mrs Lichtenberger. It is always with you that everything that happens to positive needs to be immediately occupied with a negative point. Of course, it is true that the Brenner Base Tunnel will be finished at the earliest in 2012 or 2015 – perhaps even later, you never know that exactly in such large projects. Now, to put all the measures needed to change from road to rail is a little bit of a check, because the potential is not yet available, even if such major projects will be the case – for economic interests alone, if you take so many billions into your hands – that traffic is actively diverted to the rail. There are a number of different measures where the Minister is active and is really trying to work with the countries, such as environmental protection measures. I wish you, Mrs Lichtenberger, good luck on your way forward, in the European Parliament, and I hope that with your help with the Road Costs Directive, we will achieve a better outcome than before, as a new opportunity is now open to the new European Parliament and to new Commissioners. We expressly welcome this project from the Tyrolean side. We are glad that this project was finally being pushed forward among the freedom ministers of transport – it is true, before that there was always much talk, but nothing was ever done. Now phase 2 is implemented. The country of Tyrol participates generously, one has to say that – one must also praise Landeshuptmann van Staa and Landeshauptmann deputy Gschwentner. They are ready to sell parts of TIWAG to participate in active financing. That is a great gesture, and we welcome the fact that the country of Tyrol is so actively participating in it. The next area is service law. Everyone knows what problems we had in this regard. We wanted to decide this in Parliament because no one has seen a chance that the social partners will come to a solution. I am glad – and I really want to thank everyone for this – that a new service right has now been created together, that the €100 million of savings potential and the future associated with it are guaranteed for the ÖBB. Thanks also to the social partners for their active cooperation and that we can now adopt this law. My group will agree to this – the opposition, I hope, also, since this would be a consensus matter. I mean, this is a common path, and it has also shown how positive it can be worked together in the companies to ensure the future of ÖBB, Post.Bus and others. It is to be welcomed that positive cooperation on this issue with the Minister of Transport is always possible. It will not be difficult for us to support this. We welcome this initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6669	Mr Reheis is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6687	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Unfortunately, it must be said that the people along the transit routes suffer more daily from the load of trucks and transports – man and nature, the environment, are still permanently damaged. And if one hears here from the government parties the confession to change from the road to the rail, then I have to say: There's already a lot of lack of it! In fact, there will be some concepts for this, but there is a strong lack of implementation. 25 percent more heavy trucks on the burner since the expiry of the transit contract, 161 635 more vehicles; in the category of trucks with four and more axles more than 30,000 “heavy brewers” were on the road than in the same month of the previous year. In view of these figures, ladies and gentlemen, a European special scheme for the burner is more necessary than ever. The current Brenner numbers show clearly why the EU should allow transport-oriented measures in the new EU toll directive, or why the Brenner base tunnel is urgently needed to relieve the transit route. It is therefore gratifying that the Brenner Base Tunnel Gesellschaft will be able to work quickly with the corresponding drilling from July 2004 to September 2005, so that the Brenner Base Tunnel with a total length of approximately 64,3 kilometres as the longest railway tunnel in the world – with an estimated cost of between € 4.5 billion and € 5 billion – can be realized as planned. This is based on an agreement between the Republic of Austria and Italy. In this way, the two countries undertake to bear the above-mentioned total cost of production, provided that they are not covered by EU grants. Mr State Secretary, in my opinion, however, the 20% prospected by the EU is too little, because beneficiaries of this new transport route are the Member States of the EU, and therefore they should be more involved. From today's point of view, a cost contribution of between €1.7 billion and € 2 billion would amount to Austria. To cover these, we need cross-financing from truck-road pricing, which again requires a new road cost directive. Questionnaires must also be asked, Mr State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, where Austrian interests remain. – Considering that the construction company is being built in Italy, it can be assumed that this will mainly lead to Italian companies in the construction phase. The fact that the carrier company will have its tax seat in Bolzano means not only tax failures for Austria but also the drain of an enormous volume of services. The construction company will remain in Italy, the operating company, which will not produce any profits, will have its headquarters in Innsbruck. Ladies and gentlemen! The negative effects are not projectable, in addition to tax failures, this will mainly affect the entire service area from planning to construction of the Brenner base tunnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6733	Mr Miedl is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6754	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of myself, I am not going to express my opinion today, but on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to express my official thanks to Mrs Evelin Lichtenbergerer, who, on behalf of the Green Group, has given substantial support to the Committee on Transport and Transport's policy. Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger, I already knew you before I came to the National Council, is clear, and I have always admired your work. Although there were differences between the politics of the Greens and our policies there – that is in the nature of the matter, that is living democracy – but what I was able to experience in yourself and especially admired is that you were a particularly contentious woman and that it has always been for you. It was fun to get together with you. – This has made a special quality of your transport policy, and I think that is your particular quality. I would like to thank you for the contentious discussions on behalf of my group, but I would also like to thank you for always having been in the foreground, and I wish you on behalf of my group to see as much of what you have done in Austria as possible in Brussels – it is ultimately in the interest and in the matter of everyone. Thank you very much for your work on transport and thus for the people in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6793	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6811	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Miedl, I am delighted that you can take a great deal from the arguments of my colleague, Mr Lichtenberger, that you largely agree with these particular arguments, but it is all the more incomprehensible to me – and I am really saying this because of personal concern; that is not only so with you, but with many – that these particular arguments, these technically 100 percent relevant formulations, all the facts presented as a background of argumentation, are naturally erased from the table and are not pursued by you in a proper manner. – I don't understand! That is what I am really saying to you today with special concern, because all the facts that Mr Reheis has mentioned repeatedly have been put forward by Mrs Lichtenberger, who reads you in a variety of media that you hear on the spot about the affected population, all the facts, facts, all the contentions for a green transport policy, just as the Brenner problem arises. There is a broad consensus in this respect, but on the other hand, there is a majority of governments – and that is the paradox for me – who know it from the table, which considers it non-politically relevant to their voting behaviour, which simply goes beyond facts. For me, this is really the constant shaking, both in the Transport Committee and here in the parliamentary debate. The meaning question at the Brenner Base Tunnel – just ask yourself the meaning question! I've heard – you've heard it too – now: 65 kilometers, 64.3 kilometres, the longest railway tunnel in the world. The cost: € 5 billion, in Austria probably more than 2 billion. Ask yourself the question of meaning! What about the meaningful, within the meaning of your party programme of the eco-social market economy et cetera, could you support investment in this money? But: A tunnel hole is being drilled for traffic flows, which could in part be regulated with the existing circumstances. A tunnel hole is drilled for traffic transfers that are often not necessary. A tunnel hole will be drilled, and up to €5 billion will be invested for an economic policy based on transport transfers that will be exploited and partially impoverished by the regions. [[Abg. Wittauer: This is a very important measure!]] That's for me the blatant question of meaning. I think we should once again discuss this point of view more intensively, because then all the technical arguments that Mr Lichtenberger has repeatedly argued about could not be simply erased from the table. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think that would be the best answer, that would be the best continuation of a discourse where you seem to be quite happy in the Transport Committee or, how should I say, of which you had a personal gain. I fear that I will remain alone with this proposal, but I can promise you: This policy will continue – with all the consequence, in all its clarity, in all its intensification, with special nuances. I hope that our agreement to the legal situation in the Brenner Base Tunnel will be seen as a dialogue element and that it will be the intermediate for you to finally address the matter rationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6857	Next item is the report by Mr Fauland. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6875	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It has now been asked the point of view. From the point of view of the liberals, this is quite clear: It makes sense! It is a project which has a European scale, a project that goes far beyond regional and Austrian interests. It is a project that is very valuable from the scope of Easter enlargement. But it is also a project that has a very, very high priority regionally and not only in Tyrol. It is a project that also affects Salzburg. It is a project that is forward-looking, a project that has a concept that very many things do not have. With the implementation of this project, we will achieve a lot. We will at least achieve that the expected increase in traffic and also transit through this tunnel construction will be “inhalable”. There'll be a status, but that won't be all. It will be necessary to consider accompanying measures, such as traffic control systems and, above all, the motivation of the economy to really bring transit traffic from road to rail. I am very confident in this regard, because the reasonable burden on the people living in such areas has far exceeded. The zenith is over, and something has to be done there. As far as the forthcoming change in the law of the service is concerned, I am particularly pleased that Vice-Cancellor Gorbach has succeeded, with the involvement of the social partners, in to bring the trade unions into constructive cooperation. I am pleased that the S & D Group will also support these service changes today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6921	The next item is Mrs Fleckl's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6939	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This draft law on the Brenner Base Tunnel is certainly to be welcomed, as my previous speakers have already said. That is why we will vote in favour of the law or agreement with Italy today. Personally, I would like for the state of Styria that there would be an equally rapid process in the realization of the Semmering Base Tunnel. From both the point of view of transport and economic policy, the construction of this railway tunnel is essential for the southern Länder – and the Carinthian head of state has already noted: Coral tunnel without Semmering base tunnel won't make much sense! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: Who says that?]] With a view to EU enlargement and increased traffic, the “New South Railway” project must be implemented as part of the Trans-European Network. The fact that the measures taken by the State of Lower Austria, which I regret to mention today, are not an invention on our part, but has been criticized by the highest authorities. And nobody – really nobody! – wants to understand in Styria and makes sense that in the near future a road tunnel is opened, which has been very well approved by nature conservation law, but environmentally friendly transport routes do not comply with the nature protection regulations and cannot be realized – from the point of view of the country of Lower Austria. In view of the situation today, I shall take a short look at it and just say: I would like to take the initiative, Mr State Secretary, at last to push forward the “New South Railway” project both in Brussels and in Austria, not leaving the time to October inactive, not to put your hands in the lap and do nothing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6980	Next item is the report by Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e6998	Madam President. High house! The longest path also begins with a first step. – In order to set up the Innsbruck–Franzensfeste railway tunnel, today we are taking a very, very big first step, which is absolutely necessary to enable this important project to be realized. The tasks for the new society to which the Transport Ministers are authorised to set up are the preparation of a sub-project, the obtaining of permits and the presentation of a financing concept – of course, this point will be very, very important so that funding can be ensured later. And for these works, I already wish you a warm welcome and a great deal of success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today, however, we also decide novelles on the Federal Railway Act, the Federal Railway Pension Act, the ASVG and the Railway Act. The aim of these innovations is to implement and secure the agreement between the Board of Directors of the ÖBB, the Works Council and the Railway Union. I think a good solution has been found. I am particularly pleased that the SPÖ will now be voting in favour of this proposal. I would like to address two points in particular. First of all, it is about the federal liability of the Federal Government for the Alt-ÖBBlers also being defined in the new companies, which is a very positive result for the ÖBB staff. Secondly, with regard to the bus and the postal bus it received, it is also a good solution to the question of privatising individual areas, with areas being given to other modes of transport. I am sure that this will not lead to any deterioration in the supply of services or the risk of jobs, because private companies also need the drivers of these power lines and their workshops et cetera in order to operate the lines. There was no other alternative, although the Greens repeatedly criticized that a bad act was committed with the transfer of the mailbox to the ÖBB bus. I say it was the only way to keep this large company in Austrian hands. The alternative would have been that a large foreign company would have come to the train. There is also provision for the future of public passenger transport. To Mr Lichtenberger's request, I should like to say: Point one: Many measures are taking place. Just remember that now is an approval, an improvement of the offer in combined traffic via the burner! So you don't have to ask the government to do what it already does. Point two: They demand that, when the railway tunnel is finished, measures be taken to ensure that it is used accordingly. - We've got a decade left. We all know that these measures need to be largely coordinated with Brussels. I also wish you very much success, Mr State Secretary, for us in Brussels to get a lot of understanding of all these measures that we need to put into place so that the Brenner Base Tunnel will also be a profit financially and economically and brings a good result. – You, Mrs. Lichtenberger, are all right in Brussels!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7052	Next item is the report by Mr Heinzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7071	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! The Brenner Base Tunnel is an important element of the extension of the Brenner axis in order to enable long-term and sustainable shifts to rail on a central European North-South connection. That is why we welcome all the efforts that lead to the realization of the Brenner Base Tunnel. The implementation of this project – as we have often heard today – is also about a lot of money. In total, the Brenner Base Tunnel costs about €4.5 billion from today’s point of view; these costs will be Italian and Austrian respectively. carry half of it. The European Commission has recently proposed that 20 percent of the costs should be borne. For this reason, it would have been important and better to get a binding commitment to EU funding before signing the agreement than only a non-binding declaration of will by the Commission. Overall, the project is positive. We of the SPÖ will also give our consent to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7110	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kukacka. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7128	Madam President. High house! I very much welcome the fact that the coalition parties, but also the Social Democrats, have expressed positive views on this item on the agenda and will also agree to the draft law. I believe that this is a great step forward also with regard to a common and consensual transport policy, which is necessary because it is a very strong issue here to enforce national interests within a larger Europe. That is why it is important for us to act together in this House, but also in relation to Europe. I very much welcome that. I particularly welcome this with regard to the Brenner Base Tunnel. The Brenner Base Tunnel is an indispensable key element in an environmentally conscious transport policy. I honestly do not understand the position of the Greens on this question either. Mrs Moser, if you ask the point of view, I must return this question to you. The government has answered this question positively in itself: Yes, we think this Brenner base tunnel is useful and necessary and also for traffic policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But how do the Greens actually answer this question of meaning? – I have heard out quite clearly from your speech: They're against that Brenner base tunnel. But that can and will not, I hope, be the official policy of the Greens in this context. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] The motion for a resolution that you have tabled does not include the rejection of the Brenner Base Tunnel, but it is quite clear that the Brenner Base Tunnel must bring tangible improvements to people and the environment. What does that mean? Reply Now you have the question of meaning for yourself! Do you want this burner base tunnel? Should he and he bring improvements for man and the environment, or are you alternatively unscrupulous and categorically against this Brenner base tunnel, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens? – I would like to return this question to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As you call for a number of measures in connection with appropriate steering measures in this motion for a resolution, I note that: Where the railways are concerned, for example, Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany and Italy, these voting measures are taking place. There is a clear catalogue of measures in which responsibilities and periods are clearly defined. But we have a problem: There are also accompanying measures which we cannot implement and regulate alone in Austria, because there will also be General driving bans, sectoral driving bans and general cross-financing requirements. This is not yet possible, I say. We agree on this – and we also discussed it in the Committee – that there will ultimately have to be appropriate steering measures so that this Brenner base tunnel can also be operated in a business and economic manner. To do this, we also need the support of the other European states and the support of the European Parliament. That is why I call on you here to go a clear line, to support our position towards the European Union and to ensure that we also receive the economic and transport conditions for a meaningful realization and for a meaningful operation of the Brenner Base Tunnel, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, a sentence on today's decision on the legal implementation of rail service negotiations. I very much welcome the fact that the Social Democrats – I would like to say almost – have leaped a little above their shadows and voted in favour of this legal implementation today. I think this is very positive. This is a good signal, although a relatively late signal, but it shows, ladies and gentlemen – I can interpret this – that this reform will be permanent and that it will not, at least, be reversed by other governments, because it makes sense because it is politically balanced and because it was urgently necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It has not been a question of reducing any of the railways' social benefits, as it has always been assumed – and I would like to expressly stress this – but it has only been a question of reducing these special rights, which no longer existed in any other company, and adapting them to the Austrian labour law regulations, so that the ÖBB is able to prove its economic competitiveness overall in competition with other comparable railway companies. That's exactly what's done. These special rights have been abolished; it now applies to the ÖBB exactly the same labour law, which applies also to other large companies in this context. I therefore welcome the fact that this broad agreement has been reached in the payment of compensation, in the case of sickness benefit, in the case of weekly benefits, in the case of extended healing, in the definition of the insurance group, the question of the insurance institution of the railways, also the question of the follow-up security, i.e. the liability of the federal government for those former ÖBB members who will work in future in the successor companies of the ÖBB. I think it is also very useful that we have made our own rules for the decommissioning of the railway bus, because this will enable a large uniform bus company to be established in good time and that we can finally manage those synergies that we have been talking about for ten years, namely between the bus and the bus; but so far, it has never been possible to actually implement this. This time it succeeds, and I think that is also a milestone in the reform implemented by the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In conclusion, I would also like to call on the social partners and the collective contractual partners to implement it in an appropriate collective agreement, which was also negotiated in this discussion between the trade union and the board of directors, namely that in the future also the group-wide staffing of co-workers. It will be possible in all the companies and companies of the ÖBB that the so-called rosin picking, i.e. enhancing the benefits of both the contract law of the ÖBB and the respective sectoral collective agreement, will not be possible in the future that employees of the ÖBB will be able to opt out of their old service law into the ASVG, and that a comprehensive working time regime will quickly arise through collective agreements in the ÖBB. Ladies and gentlemen! If these measures are implemented by the end of this year, it is ensured, both at the legal and collective level and at the operational level, that the ÖBB can carry on its necessary reform speedily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7247	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7265	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The present draft law for the Brenner Base Tunnel is a milestone and another important step in getting to grips with the increase in traffic, which also concerns Austria very strongly. It is also spent a lot of money on the part of Austria to shift traffic to the rails in the future. That is why I am also incomprehensible that Mrs Moser said earlier that she cannot agree to this great project, this shift in transit traffic in the Brenner area to the rails. With today's decision, Austria has fulfilled many of its obligations. A legal and institutional basis is laid for continuing phase 2, i.e. the planning phase to be implemented by 2006. The aim here is to develop a project which is mature in construction and approval. One thing is clear and must not be forgotten: Conscious and regulatory measures will be taken in the future in order to ensure that, even if this great building is present, traffic can really be guided from road to rail. There are certainly still some efforts needed in addition to the construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also welcome the good agreement reached by the social partners to amend the Social Security Act and the Pension Act for ÖBB staff. It appears once again that it is possible to obtain rights and security for the ÖBB staff, in spite of savings, which are intended to apply in particular in the area of newly founded companies and companies. That means, ladies and gentlemen, The present amendments ensure social and labour rights for all employees in the field of public health and safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7304	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7325	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There can be quite a variety of ways of resolving traffic problems, but I believe that a milestone is being laid just by the creation of the Brenner Base Tunnel Aktiengesellschaft as a whole, so that we can better arrange transport routes and traffic flows at European level. I can politely remind you that there were many critical voices in the planning of the Unterinntal-Trasse. Today, this project is being realized; many citizens have great hopes that the realization of this project will improve and, of course, improve the quality of life and, of course, the quality of the economy in Tyrol as a whole. The Brenner Base Tunnel and the studies are intended to contribute further to the reduction of traffic flow and traffic loads. We have to deal with this issue with reality here, populism does not bring solutions. We must admit that traffic on the road is just increasing and that we can only deal with traffic problems via a working rail. Switzerland, where there were clear political decisions, has shown for many years that 80 percent of the freight transit is handled on the rail and that the rail represents an important milestone. Switzerland is currently investing a lot of money in these rail projects. It is, I believe, very serious when it is decided today to set up such a society that the country of Tyrol, that Austria, but also the EU, provides money for such a future project. We should all believe in it and not put distrust in the foreground. From the point of view of the Tyrolean citizens, but also of the economy and also as a political representative, I am pleased with this agreement and satisfied with this agreement. It is about putting the rail in the front line, it is about offering alternatives, and it is about securing quality of life in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7358	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I will only give the floor to one speaker and then interrupt the sitting, because we have a relatively long voting process and we would not have enough time to interrupt the sitting. At this point I would also draw attention to the fact that, after the resumption of the session, only one speaker will speak – at least the list of speakers at present – and we will therefore proceed very quickly to the vote. Mr Kainz, you are next to the floor. Your speaking time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7379	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We also deal with a new right of service for the Austrian Federal Railways, among other things, under the current item on the agenda. A law that has been discussed for a long time and concerns the necessary structural reform of the Austrian Federal Railways. The decision-making process in December 2003 was preceded by heated debates, including strikes on the back of consumers. However, the structural reform adopted here in December 2003 undoubtedly constitutes the framework with which the Federal Railways will be a modern service provider in the future. xible service providers, but also as providers in international freight transport, are undoubtedly competitive. This decision preceded very constructive discussions in the Committee. Federal Chancellor Schüssel removed the right to serve, and an agreement has now been reached between the trade union and the board of directors and a right of service has been drawn up which is to be decided here today in the National Council. This agreement on service law is undoubtedly a transport policy milestone and is really the conclusion of a very historic and sustainable reform. A new, modern service law now enters into force, with the agreement of all those involved. However, the new regulation of service rights and working time also saves more than € 173 million. However, without reforming the rights of employment and employment, a large number of previous special rights in the field of working time would have existed. The costs are over €57 million alone. The special holidays with the very interesting short names WUZ, TUZ and FUZ are undoubtedly known to all who have been involved in this reform. But we have also created, I believe, with this modern service law, the basis that corresponds to modern labour law. This arrangement has already been subject to all the other Austrians, and of course it also applies to the servants of the Federal Railways. I would be pleased if the motivation in the company continued, which ensures that our Austrian Federal Railways remain or are still becoming a modern transport company, so that they can continue to keep pace with the benefit of our customers in the international and, above all, European concert. I expect and wish my approval in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7425	I am now interrupting the meeting for probably one hour.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7451	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. Mr Rädler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7478	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As a representative of the Lower Austria South constituency, I refer to the tragic events of the last days, but the deceased President Dr. Thomas Klestil has been with us in the region over the past few years through his second residence in the municipality of Feistritz at the change. I should like to express my deep sympathy for the people of this region from this point of view of the grieving family. Just as life brings light and shadow to us who accompany us through life, so tomorrow's day is connected with light through the fishing of the new Federal President. The new Federal President Dr. Heinz Fischer is also at home in our region. He has a second residence in my district, in Wiener Neustadt, in the municipality of Hohe Wand. I can also give him the best wishes for his new and difficult office here! Let me now say that I am going into today's agenda very briefly, namely the changes to the Railway Service Law. As a member of the Committee on Transport, I remember that exactly a year ago, we were working on dealing with this matter immediately. I think it was right – and this is thanks to our Secretary of State Kukacka – that we have removed the right to serve from the general scheme and left it to the board and to the employee representatives. As a member of the Committee on Transport, I would also like to thank our chairman, Mr Eder. Even if he has a different political access to this discussion, it is, I believe, that today's decision has jointly enabled all of us to take the chance that we will give the PDO staff special legal certainty with the approximation to the ASVG law. This, of course, involves a certain amount of service, but it is also fair to all other ASVG insured persons, it is justice and security for the approximately 47 000 employees in the field of public transport. Finally, I take the wish that we will also succeed together in creating a new state agreement in the context of harmonisation here, as our Federal Chancellor has called it, so that we can share the same legal certainty with the younger people, the younger generation in our country, and that is a pension insurance contract that will have a positive effect for the elderly people in our country for decades to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7518	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First we reach the vote on the draft federal law establishing a “Brenner Grundtunnel Aktiengesellschaft” and amending the Federal Act establishing a “Brenner Eisenbahn GmbH”, together with the title and receipt in 578 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is unanimous, and the draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Transport, the conclusion of the present State Treaty, the agreement with the Italian Republic on the establishment of a railway tunnel on the Brenner axis, in 537 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenberger, ladies and gentlemen, on the necessary transitional and accompanying measures for the establishment of a Brenner base tunnel. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. This motion for a resolution is rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Railway Act, the Federal Railway Pension Act and other laws, including title and entry into 580 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 9. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (196, e.g._Other Organiser European Convention on the International Transport of Dangerous Goods on inland waterways (ADN) and Regulation and Declaration (577, B.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7610	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I'm going to open the debate. Mr Marizzi is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7637	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, This European Convention on the International Transport of Dangerous Goods on inland waterways is a matter of consensus. The three main points of the law are as follows: So far, there have been a lack of international rules for the transport of dangerous goods. Another security gap is concluded with this agreement; we think only of the accident in Hamburg. Third point: Transport shall only be permitted if the security provisions of the Agreement are complied with. Allow me a few more sentences on the importance of inland waterway transport in Europe. Inland waterway transport in Europe, especially on the Danube, is strengthened, especially environmentally consciously. There is a uniform system for the construction of tankers. It can also make a stronger shift from road to waterway, in particular with regard to EU enlargement. According to a study, freight transport can be shifted more to the Danube. An example: A truck develop four times as much CO2 emissions per tonne as the ship. Some 54 million tonnes of goods are currently being transported on the Danube, with almost 100 million in 2015. It is also very important for the transport industry that the railway and the ship are much cheaper than the truck. That is to say, the law allows the Danube shipping to be modernised. It is an essential contribution to the transport industry. That is why we are happy to give this law our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7677	Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller's word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7695	Madam President. High house! With today's agreement on the international transport of dangerous goods on inland waterways, we are laying the last building block in the entire international law on dangerous goods. It is, as it were, a historic moment. The ADR has for a long time regulated the transport of dangerous goods on the road, the RID the transport of dangerous goods in rail transport, in high sea shipping we have the IMDG code, and ICAO regulations in air transport have been in force for a long time. No one really knows why the importance and importance of rules for the transport of dangerous goods appears to have been considered less important in inland waterway transport. At any rate, Austria has also been a leader in the preparation of this present agreement, as has already been the case with the previous dangerous goods agreements, in particular with regard to the control and training of the inspectors. It is at this point my personal concern to thank the officials of the transport resort, at the head of the Council of Ministers Dr. Gustav Kafka, who has been working internationally and nationally for many, many years for a good right of danger, very much for their exemplary work! [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] The present agreement will enter into force if it has ratified seven States. Austria is with today's fourth state decision, and I hope that three more countries will soon be able to ratify it. According to the agreement, it may become members of the agreement of all those States that have inland waterways on their territory, which appear in the register of main inland waterways of international importance, i.e. in the AGN. These are currently 28 states, from France to Russia, from Sweden to Greece, and I hope that, as I said, three more will be found soon. The importance of this agreement is that water, so that groundwater and so on, are protected in Europe. The appropriate safety standards will be aligned in all countries. This is important because the conditions also need to be fulfilled by ships of other flags. The distortions of competition which still exist in the Austrian shipowners are thus eliminated. There is a ban on transport of particularly dangerous goods, and we have a number of technical specifications: Safety provisions, the inspection and approval of ships, the controls, the training of experts. This also replaces the previous regulation on the Rhine and the provisional regime on the Danube on the basis of the Danube Convention. Austria has already set up In 1997 with the ADN Regulation, it was also a milestone and was a European pioneer. A declaration by Austria excludes rivers such as March, Thaya and Inn, but also inland waters such as Neusiedler See and Lake Constance, on which no such transports are currently permitted in Austria. There's nothing going on there either. In this sense, I am looking forward to the consent of the House to this important agreement in order to protect the Austrian population and the Austrian waters.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7752	The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7771	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This agreement, of course, has a four-party consensus. It is about increasing security, ensuring international security. Inland waterway transport is upgraded, which is also an essential factor. I think it's been a long time since this ratification was finally implemented. We are all happy and happy about that. I would like to thank Hubert Gorbachda for his continued operation and for being able to make this decision today. We are pleased that this is happening today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7801	The next speaker was Mr Böhm. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7819	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! You certainly know the situation: You drive on the motorway comfortably and occasionally overwhelm a truck. All of a sudden, you will find an orange sign about 35 times 35 centimetres, which is mounted on the side of the trucks. You may notice that several trucks on the motorway or on the federal roads are equipped with such signs, once with numbers, once without numbers. These are dangerous goods transports, and the figures indicate the means of transport of dangerous goods. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I myself have been a businessman in the field of gas technology, entrusted with the transport of dangerous goods for decades and, of course, I am also suffering from everything related to the inspections of such companies. The new rules bring together not only the vehicles on the road, but also the vehicles in the air and – ladies and gentlemen have already mentioned this – the water vehicles. It is called ADN in short for the transport industry, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in Austria, through harmonised rules. This is an important contribution to the harmonisation of the rules for the transport of dangerous goods. – I would ask you to support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7853	The next speaker was Mrs Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7871	Ladies and gentlemen! This international agreement is a very important step in terms of security in the Danube. I hope that this will be followed by the appropriate monitoring measures. Let me, however, because this will be my last speech in the Austrian Parliament, which I hold in my capacity as Member of Parliament, a few more personal words. I have been in this House for about four and a half years now, I have experienced five transport ministers – the State Secretary has not yet included them – and have experienced and contributed to many intensive debates on transport policy. My concern was – and a part of it, I think, has succeeded – that the problems of the Western Austrian Alpine transit, as well as the traffic burden in the cities, should increasingly be put at the centre of the political debate. I have spoken very often in this matter and have tried to convince you of initiatives that I am still convinced that they will be important for the future and will continue to play a role in this House. I am handing over my role as a transport spokesperson to the proven hands of my colleague Gabi Moser, who will continue with you these debates, which I consider urgent. We have experienced very intense discussions in this House in these four and a half years. In these violent debates, I have also sometimes responded to and reacts to highly digestible accusations, in a Western-rich, uneconomic language. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Tyrolean!]] If I have hurt someone very much, I ask for for forbearance! It was not out of the will to hurt personally, but out of material commitment. This will, of course, continue to accompany me, and I will certainly not only remain connected to this House in a certain way, but also retain it, because, as a Member of Parliament, I will try to participate as much as possible in the debates of the main committee, or also to contribute and contribute to the European debate in the House. I think – and this is also a great wish from me to this House – that, after the involvement of parliamentarians, Austrian parliamentarians in the European Constitution – I had the honour of playing a role in it – the European question should increasingly go to the centre of the debate and move. I wish that the cooperation between the respective national parliaments, such as our Austrian Parliament, and the European Parliament, will be a very, very intense one. In doing so, as in the past, one would sometimes react to emotion with emotion, but the common thing or the common thing in the European matter should connect us so far that we also try to come as far as possible to a common line. I would have liked so much today that, at least at the end of my parliamentary activity in the transport sector, a request I made – and we deliberately formulated it in such a way that the two government parties could easily have approached him – would have been accepted, because – and I would also like to address this appeal to the House – cooperation is also that one sometimes also accepts and appreciates opposition initiatives. [[Abg. Scheibner: You should have told us before!]] This is how the linkage and improvement of the climate between the parties are strengthened, and I think we sometimes need it urgently. First of all, I would like to thank the parliamentary staff. They do an excellent job! [[General condolences.]] I would like to thank colleagues from the other parties for their dedicated discussion, whether in the field of foreign policy, in the area of defence, in transport or tourism, or in matters of the main committee. – Thank you very much! It was sometimes very, very exciting discussions. And I am particularly grateful to my group, our Greens, our group, which has grown so well in recent years, for the good cooperation and the great support for my parliamentary work, for our joint initiatives, which I have received in particular at the beginning, but also until the end and also during the Convention time. It was an exciting time, it was also fun. We also often had the opportunity to laugh together, either outside or even inside. That's not quite irrelevant either. I hope that we will be able to maintain a good link in both content and personal matters. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e7933	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore voting on the request of the Transport Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty, the Regulation and the Declaration in 196 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Transport, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act, that the English and Russian language versions of the Convention are made known by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. 10. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (557 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the Motor Driving Act 1967 (24. KFG-Novelle) (581 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 385/A by Mr Klaus Wittauer, Mr Mag. Karin Hakl, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 6 November 1885 was adopted. In July 1960, it was amended to amend the rules on road police (Road Traffic Regulations 1960 – StVO 1960) (582 d.a.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 422/A by Mr Mag. Eduard Mainoni, Werner Miedl, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Road Law in 1971 (583 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8015	We now come to points 10 to 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The first speaker was Mr Eder, with a four-minute voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8036	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me also to thank Mr Evelin Lichtenberger for her cooperation in the Committee on the agenda item on behalf of my group and as chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. In her speech, colleague Lichtenberger provided me with a few words. When she spoke of intensive debates, I must say that these were really intense. I can only confirm that Mr Lichtenberger has always made great efforts to convince the government groups and the social-democratic group. The Socialist Group has often succeeded in working on and agreeing with one another project or another. But unfortunately, together we have not yet managed to convince the government that we also have good proposals. [[Abg. Rare!]] But perhaps we will succeed if we continue to work on these projects. It has also been spoken of by the Alpine transit. That was really a concern that you, colleague Lichtenberger, have always addressed with great commitment and full heart. I think you owe a lot of money to your work. You will continue this work in the European Parliament. I'm just not quite convinced that it'll be easier there. I am afraid it will be even more difficult in the large European Parliament to enforce the issues that are so important to us in Austria. In any case, I wish you all the right for this work and hope that we will continue to work together well. [[We welcome the SPÖ and the Greens, as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the agenda items that we are discussing here today, I should like to say that the Socialist Group unfortunately cannot agree to these points. On the question of transporting wood, I am going to say something to colleagues. As for the point of warning vests, I'm really sorry: We would have liked to vote in favour of this. I can assure you here again that we are, of course, in principle for the use of warning vests, but in a way that people would have understood better. The law is somewhat intrusive of the cases of carrying warning vests, and it is more aligned with motorways and motorways. We would rather have thought that an obligation to carry, especially in the case of pans, in the urban area, in dangerous curves, in other words, anywhere where one has to leave in the case of a pan and the traffic is passed by. There it would be very useful to put on warning vests. It is clear to me that it is not prohibited to put on these too, but it is a question of having clear rules. Another question that we have not yet been answered was the question of liability insurance. Is it clear what legal consequences it has in the case of liability insurance if a person gets a warning vest out of the car because of a shock or whatever does not attract in an accident and then causes another accident? That is not clear to us today, and this has not been clarified either. I already know that there are also different legal bases such as the ABGB et cetera, but this question should have been dealt with better. We are sorry that we cannot agree to this today, but perhaps one of the next meetings of the Committee on Transport can still be improved by further innovations. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8082	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8100	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of road safety, we have to hold a general debate once again. Today's novice of the Power Driving Act brings only two aspects, and of course the question of the wearing of warning vests is seen by us in a positive way. Here the example of Italy has given us some thought. It will also improve a lot in relation to the draft presented. The other aspect of road safety is also somewhat related to the additional axle control for forestry operations. These five axles are certainly attractive to many from a forestry point of view. However, our problem is partly road use and, most of the time, that this new regulation takes too little care of the safety conditions and the time of danger. The same applies also to the last aspect of this novel, to the 32-ton trailers with agricultural tractors. We have heard from experts that this is not unproblematic either. Therefore, because part of this novelle is quite positive, but two parts appear to us problematic, we unfortunately have to reject this point. I hope that, in the coming autumn, we will have more important steps on road safety issues, that we will finally discuss the issue of the point driver's license, and that we will finally make an offensive overall, which will lead to a general improvement in road safety beyond detailed measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8131	Mr Miedl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8149	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder, we have about 1,000 road deaths in Austria each year. One of the causes of the increased death on Austria's roads is the lack of vision or not to be seen. We all know that very high speeds are being driven on motorways and motorways in particular. And high speed in combination with non-sight then usually leads to accidents with fatal outputs. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, and I know this from practice to report that especially on The speed of motorways is underestimated by the road user himself. In other words, the passenger is driving at the roadside of a motorway, has a pan and rises out as if he were at home in his garage. And that's going to be overlooked. In addition to the fact that the West has a very high effect in itself, this discussion also leads me to let the road user know once again how necessary it is to prepare spiritually in the dry training, so to speak, for what happens if something happens to him on the motorway. And that's incredibly important. In other words, this discussion around the warning vests alone has already been done to signal the traffic operator: You're in a particularly dangerous area. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Günter Kößlweiß, what I'm talking about. – I can also justify it. The passenger's view of the motorway is, of course, forward. At the side angle, he sees quite little danger. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that it is right and important that the vests of warning be introduced. Since Italy has started to do so, Austria should also follow this right step. It is important, ladies and gentlemen - and there will be an amendment - that this measure enters into force as soon as possible. The right and important thing, ladies and gentlemen – and this is now in the light of the law – is: This law states that on free land roads the warning vest must always be carried when the warning triangle is to be set up. That means, that's a relatively simple story: Put on warning triangle and put on warning vest. In the sequence, better: Put on warning vest and set up warning triangle. On motorways it is always to be carried. If I use and climb the panstrip on highways or on a motorway, I just have to put on these warning vests. It's no different unless I'm on a highway parking lot. That means that this is a relatively simple arrangement, ladies and gentlemen. And: When I make a law that I expect as a legislator to be observed, I need a criminal framework to do so. The same criminal framework will be applied, as it already applies in the case of non-use of warning items. Ladies and gentlemen, a real step! I congratulate the State Secretary and the Minister for introducing this measure. I think she's right and important. The opposition does not remain much more to do than agree to this important law – in the interests of road safety in Austria! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8200	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8219	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about the warning vests. This is a part of the planned changes in the course of this 24. Novelle, by which various legislative adaptations need to be made and made, which are also in the interest of the parties involved. The improvement of safety by wearing warning vests has already been discussed. Mr Eder will not agree, but in the final effect he will still put on the vest, I say once, and thus a contribution to safety This is the first time You'll probably also put on them in inconspicuous curves and thus live on how this can get even better. It was only the discussion that proved that it is a pity that you can always discuss good approaches for so long until you get on with what you could actually do even better. I just mean, you can sell what has been achieved once more as good and perhaps do what should be better later.A second area, which is also very important to me, is the agricultural area, in which some improvements have also been made, changes for the followers in the agricultural sector. Here too, you have to go over time and take part in the technical adaptations that are urgently needed. I believe that this is very important for our farmers that they can make sure to remain competitive in order to be able to participate actively in this open competition in the course of an enlarged EU. A third area, which is contained here and which I think is very important, is this story with the 44 tons for the round-wood trucks. So I think it's a step in the right direction when you try to create competitiveness and equality. With the mandatory twin maturation, it is also achieved that the protection of the roads, especially the forest roads and the municipal roads, is preserved, because – and this is very likely to be critical – it is important that we do not destroy the roads in this area, because precisely these roads must be preserved by private persons or by local authorities. There is, of course, now a discussion as to whether this should be extended to other transports. For example, the dairy sector has come and has meant that raw milk transport should also be taken in here. I think you will look at the experiences you are now making and then decide in peace how this affects and how you continue to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8258	The next speaker was Mrs Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8276	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with Amendment No 385/A. This proposal includes a change to the road transport regulations. It is a matter of concrete transport impact systems and their regulations in the road traffic regulations. These systems, ladies and gentlemen, switch certain traffic restrictions independently according to a given programme. It will react quickly to how the weather affects the drivers, namely regarding smoothness, fog and other weather influences. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, it is about a greater level of road safety for all road users. Security, which needs to be guaranteed by legal frameworks, is something that builds on many small, individual building blocks. A missing building block is quite clear rules for trucks, because there is no day on which so-called truck toboggans are not reported or about rolling time bombs, as a newspaper has quoted, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is clearly disturbing. It is too little that individual federal states become active and regulate. Mr State Secretary, I expect you to make very clear proposals for solutions. and to protect people and to protect those road users who are travelling by private cars and whom we must guarantee safety. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8316	The next speaker was Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8334	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The present draft law contains several amendments to the driving law. This innovation creates important legal conditions for raising traffic safety, and I do not understand that the opposition does not go along here. On the other hand, important and reasonable suggestions from agriculture and the economy are taken up and implemented. This amendment introduces new categories of trailers into the law – very important for agriculture – and this law introduces facilitation for derogation for special transports. Furthermore, this has already been mentioned, a new regulation of the transport of timber will be enshrined in this law. The law makes a change to the effect that there will be no customs guard in the future, but financial management. But, in particular, we must and I should like to deal with the increase in road safety. Here, Mr Miedl, was addressed to the Warnwest. I believe that if, with the introduction of this warning vest, we prevent traffic deaths a year, then this law has done its guilt. I think this is a very, very important introduction. In various countries in Europe, there is already the legal anchoring of the obligation to carry along and, of course, to carry this warning vest. If you have to do a job on the ground in road accidents or even in road traffic, I think you know and you can talk calmly about how important it is to be seen in time to see how important it is, of course, that the road user also realizes that one is in a dangerous situation, where it is meant to reduce speed wherever it is, among other things, standing and providing help. From this point of view, I would particularly like to thank the Transport Safety Board and, of course, also ÖAMTC and ARBÖ, which have been very important. That is why it is unexplainable to me that there is no agreement from the opposition side here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8371	Mr Parnigoni is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8390	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to comment briefly on the KFG-Novelle. Some comments on this: Finally, as a success of the truck and agricultural lobby, this novel leads to the fact that, in the future, round-wood transports will be donned to a special extent, namely 44 tonnes, across the country roads, such as the forest district, Mr Grillitsch, not spread over six axes, but over five axes. [[Abg. Grill: These are thousands of jobs in forestry and agriculture!]] [[Abg. Grill: This means job security!]] That is to say, the pressure of the axle is getting even stronger. You may not know the streets in the forest district, I know them. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It is due to twin maturity!]] It is nevertheless true, ladies and gentlemen, that, of course, not only the roads with which it is not the best in my region will suffer massive damage, but also the municipalities will suffer enormous burdens, because of this, of course, the underlying infrastructure, such as sewerization, is seriously affected. The communities in the forest district are financially at the end of the day, and in fact this measure only leads to the fact that on one side of a small group there are appropriate opportunities to recognise privileges and, so to speak, massively burden the economy. It can't be like that. I can only say to Mr Kößl, who has left the meeting room, to the warning vests and to his accusation why the opposition does not agree with this: We are, of course, in favour of wearing such vests of warning, because this is, of course, a sensible measure, but we are, but we are, regulations that are not clear and meaningful. Because the question of liability is not clarified – that is, if, for example, I don't wear the warning vest and get hurt, do I get pain money or not? – because the question of double punishment has not been clarified – that is, if I do not carry the vest and therefore do not carry it, will I be punished twice? – and because it is a complex arrangement in the other areas too, we thought – and we discussed it very intensively in committee – that the government should change this, and the Secretary of State also promised that one would come to the opposition and perhaps even more sensible, more sensible arrangements would be considered here. We have not been approached, we know that the regulations will not work – by the way the ARBÖ has also pointed out – and therefore we will not give our consent to this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8453	The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8471	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Parnigoni – and I am surprised – was opposed to this in the committee, but there were a few other reasons. At that time, the warning vests – I have to look at them – were called a “populist measure”. I've got to say one thing. How can we call this a populist measure if it is shown to reduce the safety risk to someone who has an accident? Everyone knows, even a walker, that someone who wears a vest with yellow stripes is better visible. These are security measures! Transport Minister Gorbach has not only set himself the task of halving the number of road deaths this year, but also of introducing measures in the field of safety to ensure that this also applies. I wonder how to condemn all this in Bausch and Bogen. Perhaps – I even give you the right – one should have taken some measure. You should really think about what a reason there is for the two-wheels not coming in. But with one step in the right direction to say, I don't agree, just because that might be missing, that's wrong. This measure should be supported. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I'll give you the right. It is not quite understandable to me either, but one should continue to work in this direction. If the experience shows that this really increases safety, then it may be necessary to gradually extend it to all modes of transport, if this is possible. With regard to the date, one has talked to the various organizations that one should put this ahead. The main travel period is July. ÖAMTC has seen these warning vests everywhere. I looked at that too. They are offered relatively cheap to 4 € per piece. There's enough, so they're easy to buy. We have said that we will take this measure to 1. May prepare to ensure that this will be carried by everyone in the next great wave of travel. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I therefore hope that this measure will at least help to avoid some kind of road fatality or serious injury, giving maximum safety. We have other areas, of course. A great desire from me as a Tyrolean – we will also implement this as a pilot project in Tyrol – is the traffic control system, with the possibility to take measures afterwards on the basis of the IG air, in order to ensure that, if the pollutants go up, the traffic control system works in such a way that either traffic is diverted, stopped or speed is reduced. I believe that this is a measure for the future and also for the safety and health of the people who live there. I think it's great that these measures really take a lot of money into their hands. In Tyrol alone, it is €30 million, a total of over €200 million. Since I really ask the opposition now to recognise this variety of actions by Vice-Cancellor Hubert Gorbach. This is being done everywhere in the countries. You have to say that he does his work well in this direction. For him, it is a matter of real implementing road safety and reducing the number of road fatalities. This, of course, requires the support of all of us. There has also been criticism of agriculture, of agricultural lobbying. Does one of the Social Democrats know how much is a solid-meter of wood being traded in the meantime? Does one of you know that it's almost a minute to do forest work? And then measures will be criticized that bring improvement and that – I say – the roads will not be threatened because the twin maturity ensures that the pressure is distributed evenly. [[Abg. Gradwell: But the pressure of the axle remains the same!]] For us in agriculture, this means that we can transport more cost-effectively on short journeys. It must be worth it to us. We have an increase in forest that is huge. That is to say, it is about the management of our forests. So we should not only put in place support measures for renewable energy power plants, but also see that our forests are managed, otherwise there is a disaster there. The ageing of our forests is progressing. I believe that any action that is helpful should also be implemented. That is why I also ask you, Heinz, not to call such measures agricultural lobbying, as the colleague did, but to implement it actively with us in order to help agriculture create framework conditions so that agriculture can continue to exist in the future. [[in the direction of the Abg. Gradual well-being]] Forest care is non-profit care. [[Abg. Gradwell: Nevertheless, I say it again, the pressure of the axle is the same!]] That's what we do for everyone, not just for us. As the situation is at present, I hope that prices will rise again so that in the future forest management can be managed better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8560	The next speaker was Mr Steier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8579	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are debating today a number of measures to help increase road safety. One issue that should be of particular attention due to current events is the safety of children in road transport. Ladies and gentlemen! Recent figures show that in 2003 37 children were fatally injured in road traffic. This corresponds to an increase of 48 percent compared to 2002. The number of injured children increased by 1.3 percent by 4 074. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website Place dropped. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After 20 years of belt requirement, the gripping ratios at around 75.6 percent are comparatively low, with the use rates for child restraints falling 83 percent. Every sixth child in the car is completely unsecured on the road. And that, although there are very clear legal requirements for that. In view of these few naked facts and figures, we have to ask ourselves the question of what is going wrong here and whether the measures taken by policy are indeed sufficient. Ladies and gentlemen! Although there is a clear awareness of the problem and measures are also put in place in the form of education, prevention and training, this is still not enough to protect the most vulnerable road users, namely the children. The Austrian Transport Safety Programme 2002 to 2010 also contains only a few approaches. From our social democratic point of view, therefore, a comprehensive package of measures for greater child safety in transport would be essential. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8618	The next speaker was Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8636	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In these days, cereal harvests in Lower Austria begin, and the high quality standards in the food sector, which are not always optimal weather conditions, but also the increased competition in international competition, push Austrian farmers to increasingly mature transport and harvesting technologies. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for Transport Gorbach, Secretary of State Kukacka, and Mr Miedl, President of the Group, for the 24th anniversary. Novelle to the KFG also gave farmers a greater degree of security and simplification of their laborious activity; a trend in the right direction, for which positive aspects will also contribute to the supply sector of agriculture. Austria's agricultural chicken production has been testing new technologies for several years, for which now These companies are family companies that strengthen the economy in rural regions and generate world-leading innovations. There are also significant market opportunities for these companies in view of the partly huge investment potential in the applicant countries in the agricultural sector. Ladies and gentlemen! The newly integrated four-axle followers have been tested for years and are now incorporated into the law. Due to these trailers suitable for high capacity, the dangerous combination of two trailers at the farm and also on the field is avoided for the farmer. Improvements are also being made in the flow of traffic. The overtaking road is reduced by reducing the length of the train and the stability is significantly improved both in the braking process and in the driving mode. The transport capacities necessary for forestry are also created with this innovation. Especially to protect the forest from shady insects, it is necessary that shady wood be brought out of the forest as soon as possible. To date, it takes derogations to create round wood with high-performance technology from the forest – a condition that has been improved with this novelle. Ladies and gentlemen! Technical progress requires a power driving law that puts safety in the foreground, whose handling is practical and saves agriculture and the economy a corset with unnecessary obstacles: a practical solution that, as I believe, needs your all consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8677	The amendment tabled by Mr Wittauer is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. As the next speaker, Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Mr Achleitner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8700	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I think it is good that, in addition to the focus on noise protection, in the course of which twenty kilometers of noise protection facilities are built in the course of this year, transport ministers Gorbach also focused on road safety. It is a sad fact that more than 55 000 people are injured in road traffic a year. If you calculate this with an average life expectancy of 80 years, it turns out that every second Austrian is injured once in life in an accident. And there is only good if concrete measures are taken to increase road safety. The aim of all these measures is to drastically reduce the number of accidents involving personal injury by the year 2010 and to halve the number of road fatalities. That is why I believe that this step is now setting a commitment for reflective warning vests, for one in the right direction. It is therefore also absolutely incomprehensible to me why this step, which is clearly aimed at road safety, is against the opposition, because it has been shown that a not small percentage of major road accidents happen especially in the setting up of pan endrecks or when getting out on highways or highways by being overlooked. The few euros that cost this warning vest, which can be put in the car at any time and which remains there without great effort, must be worth everyone's own life. Ladies and gentlemen! Another measure for road safety, namely transport impact facilities, is to be found today in the road traffic regulations. These systems also represent a further point for prevention, especially in order to improve traffic flows or also to reduce the potential for danger. As the Upper Austrian, I remember very well the fog warning system in the Upper Austrian Lakes region, which has proved itself very well and by which some accidents could certainly have been avoided. Ladies and gentlemen! Each of us is confronted with road traffic every day, no matter if you are a pedestrian, a cyclist or a driver on the road. It must be in the sense of all of us that safety is given great importance in road transport. And I am really glad that Transport Minister Gorbach considers transport safety to be an important priority in his policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8737	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8756	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Lichtenberger is not present right now, so I would like to ask her to submit the following: As a Tyrolean MP and as a joint constituency in the constituency, I can say thanks here for their commitment and for their commitment to politics. I met Mrs. Eva Lichtenberger as an opposition politician with heart and soul. It has fought very persistently in all thematic areas and has developed itself in the business of politics acceptance and sustainability. [[I should like to thank the Commissioner, Mr President, for his excellent work and for the work he has done.]] Measures for greater protection and safety on the streets are a task to us here in legislation, to the economy, to research and to the representation of interests. We need to take measures to reduce the number of road victims and to increase road safety. We as road users need to be constantly and sustainablely informed. The world is becoming more mobile, traffic has to be guided and ordered, and dangers have to be identified early, it has to be pointed out. It is therefore a question of anchoring the traffic impact systems in the law today, transferring them from the test operation to the real-life operation and thus promoting safety and prevention in road transport. There are forecasts that traffic will increase by 30 to 40 percent by the year 2015, so it is essential that we use modern, intelligent technology. In my neighboring community, such a pilot project has been initiated and has been very positive with a so-called telematic system. It has been shown that the number of accidents is falling and that people who drive cars are very likely to be careful when they are pointed out. The aim of this legislative measure is to reduce road accidents. It is about avoiding personal harm, about transport safety and environmental protection, and it is also about promoting traffic flow, providing up-to-date information for all road users, but also about collecting traffic data. In practice, this means to us drivers: The view to the left and right, forward and back is supplemented by a further look, the up one. Our transport operators and our environment will benefit from this measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8797	The next speaker was Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8815	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I also think that this amendment will make a significant contribution to security. It is equally important, however, that it also makes a significant contribution to ensuring that the framework conditions for agriculture and the economy are in agreement, because it is important that the level of competition and thus the safeguarding of jobs in rural areas are part of this KFG-novelle. If one considers the accident statistics in the field of trucks and buses, it is particularly important that the speed controllers come in for trucks and buses, so that the accident figures can also be reduced in this ongoing process. The war vest, which has been mentioned more often today, is an essential part of the safety policy in the transport sector. Seeing and getting seen can save life. I very much welcome this measure and I am pleased that it was already adopted on 1 January. It will be implemented in May of next year. We need to anchor it in the consciousness of the people, the Austrians, not only to speculate on what penalties a possible non-carrying such a jacket could trigger. If you only prevent a death victim from wearing this warning vest, then this measure has already proved to be correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8849	The next speaker was Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8867	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Some of today's agenda items of negotiations in the Transport Committee are dealing with the issue of road safety, and we can say without a doubt that in recent years in the area of transport safety in Austria we have achieved excellent successes; for example, we are only thinking of the ever-increasing number of deaths in road transport. These achievements in the area of road safety could be achieved through various measures: on the one hand, through improved vehicle technology, better road construction, more control, even more awareness work, but of course also through new laws. Let us think, for example, of the 0.5-promille limit, which was introduced a few years ago, a measure that can be described as quite successful! And if by today’s decision the mandatory “yellow warning vest” per 1. This is a valuable contribution to preventing road injuries and deaths. What these new laws are about, however, I would also like to say a lot of criticism or to remind you of those provisions, where I believe that these laws have been partially formulated “overwhelming”. Today, we have heard variously that in the area of SPÖ and greens there is a certain kind of hostile image, for example, of agriculture and agriculture. – I believe that this is not really justified, although I already understand that it is sometimes not easy to get behind some agricultural and forestry vehicle – and that there is a certain aversion, so to speak, emotionally. However, as I believe, we are called upon to take account of this due to the technical development, which makes it possible to use even heavier vehicles to take account of it – and this happens with this novel, for example, if we allow a single-axle trailer over 10 tons if we allow four-axle trailers or higher tonnages in round-wood transports. Especially in connection with these roundwood transports, I cannot understand your rejection at all, but this higher tonnage is limited to that point, so to speak, where the next processing operation is, or there is a limit to a maximum of 100 kilometres of airline. There are therefore necessary and right restrictions. There are also – and this has already been mentioned – further wishes on the part of agriculture, in the direction of simply taking more account of the technical and economic circumstances of agriculture. Unfortunately, however, there is still little willingness to talk from the SPÖ and the Greens. I would like to see this willingness to talk, which would not in any way contribute to less transport safety – in many cases it would simply mean greater competitiveness for agriculture without jeopardising road safety – given to you by the SPÖ and the Greens at least in the coming months, so that we can deal with other issues in the sense of agriculture, without thereby limiting road safety in any way. In this sense, we will agree with this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8916	The next speaker was Mr Preineder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8935	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! There are days where life seems to be silent – and today we have to experience such a day. But also on such days it is necessary to do the necessary work, and some of it is precisely this change of the driving law. This is about adapting to developments, developments that the technology reveals: be it in the field of star-deck trailers or in the field of agricultural trailers. However, it is also about making necessary efficiency improvements, as is ensured in the case of round-wood transports, because it is simply necessary to bring the wood out of the forest on time and prevent a threatening risk of borch beetles. It also provides for a necessary change in the field of safety: Let's just think about the yellow warning vests, for example. The security aspect is thus put to the fore. If the criminal regulations are applied for, liability shall be: This can be seen in a similar way to with the panning triangle or with the bandage equipment that we can carry and set up or apply for a long time. So that's what we should focus on. Just in a day like today when the finiteness of life has been brought to our attention, I may ask you, in the sense of greater road safety To give your consent to this new law!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8972	The next speaker was Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e8990	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! To clarify any misunderstanding: Of course we are also in favour of carrying warning vests! And from the committee's date to this day, time would have been enough to formulate the law in such a way that you really know it. Citizens have a right to read a law clearly. In this case, however, we have a law, where one knows that one should put on the vests of warning, but the law does not show what is happening and whether one is punished if one does not put on these vests – and one does not know when to put them on. For example, it is here that on free land roads the west has to be laid only if the handlebar is located in an inconspicuous place, it is dark or the view is bad, only in the case of a pan. – My question: What about an accident?- Oh, my God! All of this is not clearly regulated. We of the SPÖ have been concerned with the following – and that is why I ask you again from the government groups, more we have not wanted –: That we use the time we have had from the Committee to this day to make a little clearer formulations. Nothing else happened! Now we have a law, after which warning vests are carried in some form sometime somewhere But the citizen does not know exactly how it is about when it is being punished or not and when, above all, liability issues can be struck. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not about small things, but it can often be about thousands of euros in a serious case. That is why we wanted to make it clear. I can say again: The right of a citizen to at least interpret a law clearly in the road traffic regulations would have earned the citizens of Austria. That's why we did it! Unfortunately, you have not used these few days by ÖVP and FPÖ, and therefore we cannot now use this wording, although we would agree with the content of the fact that warning vests are worn. Again: With this wording, we cannot help because there is no safe legal basis for the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9048	Mr Mag, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9066	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder, just briefly to clarify: I regret that the SPÖ does not agree with this, and I do not believe that this is justified in any way, because the legal situation is clear – and all of this is clearly expressed! Their claim that the scheme would be particularly complicated in any way is not at all understandable! I'll hold on to this. The obligation to use the warning vests is quite clear: On motorways and motorways always when leaving the vehicle as well as in those cases where according to § 89 StVO the panning triangle is to be set up. And when the panning triangle is set up, it's also quite clear. This is also contained in the law and is applicable legal status! What applies to the panning triangle now also applies to the setting up of the warning vest: Therefore, if a multi-track vehicle reaches a standstill on open-road roads at an inconspicuous road site, in the event of bad weather, in the event of dusk or darkness, and the lane is blocked by it. That is the current legal situation! It is also not to be seen why there should be something different for the panning triangle, and for the construction of the warning vest. That is quite clear, and all the experts agree on this too. As you point out, the term ‘autoroad’ would be problematic and, if necessary, would be replaced by the term ‘fast road’, I note: The term “autobahn” is also used as the term “autobahn” in the road traffic regulations. On the other hand, the term “fast road” is not found in StVO! That is to say, the legal situation is quite clear – and therefore: What you proposed by the SPÖ would only have been a complication – and unfortunately would have contributed to confusion, but not to clarity! The problem of liability also does not arise in the case of non-use of the West, because liability problems, i.e. co-indebtedness, would only occur if the non-use of the warning vest would be causal for damage. This too is a very clear rule. We have reviewed this, and all the lawyers have thought that this is so right. Everything else would only become a complication. This is the first time that we have been That is why we have felt that it should remain as we have proposed.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9126	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9145	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! From our point of view, the appearance of these new laws is definitely wrong and does not really serve the cause. In fact, if you catch up with security issues that are in themselves economically oriented, you don't know where you want to go. As far as the Warnwest duty - which my colleague Moser has already said - is concerned, in principle, we are also convinced that this is a right strategy, and, of course, we must also see economic developments in the field of the liberalisation of transport in the agricultural and forestry sectors. That's quite right, and it was argued like that. On the other hand, we also need to discuss the security issues accordingly, and that has really happened to us. They have not submitted or thought of any accompanying evaluations. They have not made safety requirements or carried out evaluations, nor have they considered appropriate training measures, nor have they explained the essential question of how to take appropriate precautions with regard to the damage caused by these larger equipment on municipal and forestry roads. These are moments of danger that we want to know before we can join in with this concern. That is why we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9184	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft on 24. KFG-Novelle in 557 of the supplements. Mr Wittauer, Mr Miedl, Mr Miedl, Mr President, have tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 29 of the draft law. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 557 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mrs Wittauer, Mr Miedl, Mr Miedl and Mr De Clercq. I am looking for a sign of approval for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of this. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The law is therefore also adopted by a majority at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law amending the road transport regulations, together with the title and receipt in 582 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Federal Road Act, together with the title and entry into 583 of the Supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the draft law to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – It is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (478, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Energy Charge Act (586, e.g.) 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (516, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Coal Tax Act and the Energy Charge Act (587, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9285	We now come to points 13 and 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. The first speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll, with a three-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9307	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If we decide today on this Energy Charge Act, I am doing so, I say quite openly, with great relief, because this is a problem that has been hanging like a damocles' heavy over energy-intensive plants for years. A decision by the EU Commission meant that the question of energy tax compensation in Austria was practically disputed from 2002 onwards. As a “worst case” a situation would have threatened, according to which the energy-intensive companies would have been burdened with an additional burden in the form of a reimbursement of the remuneration up to € 900 million. I am therefore very glad that long and months of negotiations have succeeded in enabling Parliament's present solution. I would like to express my thanks to the Minister for Finance and his staff, who had several very difficult negotiations and talks with Commissioner Monti, that we today, a regulation which, on the one hand, reorganises the years 2002 and 2003, on the other, will also find a solution that will apply for the future, ensuring that Austria's economic location and workplace can also be used by energy-intensive companies. The alternative would have been that many energy-intensive companies should have shifted their production. I am also grateful to the Ministry of Finance that a regulation has been found for a special case, namely the question of the treatment of the petrolocox used not only for heating purposes, for example, in the production of cement clinics, but also for chemical processes, by ensuring that 60 percent of the petrolocox used is not counted for heating, i.e. is not subject to the tax, but is required for this chemical process. This can eliminate an existential threat, especially for two companies in the cement industry. In this sense, it is a good step for the economic and work location Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9357	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9375	High house! Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The changes to the law to be discussed also take place – as my previous speaker said – in order to produce EU conformity. As a result, the years 2002 and 2003 have also been adequately rehabilitated for the economy. Two major changes have taken place: First, the claim limit was raised by at least 43 percent, and second, two new energy sources were included. However, these two major amendments leave us with three questions. The first question is: How many companies are now flying out of this area by raising the minimum limit? – It is likely to be offset in part by higher prices and taxes: The second question: To what extent will energy substitutions take place? On the third question: It is also relevant for us that there is an asymmetrical remuneration here. We now have compensation for the economy, which is reasonable. I think it is important that there is also a security of the stand. We have a compensation for agriculture as part of the last tax discussion. But for many commuters or for miles of money, nothing has been done enough. So there's an asymmetry in the remuneration. Our third question therefore: What wasn't done here, what wasn't started? – This is the ecological steering between the various energy sources. And we think this is important because we know that this could take into account the corresponding efficiency of the individual energy sources, but also the impact of the Immissions. Despite these three open questions, however, we will agree to this change of law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9416	The next speaker was Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9434	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the Energy Charge Act, my predecessors have already made a very detailed statement and explained the great success of the Federal Ministry of Finance. It was not only about negotiating these €900 million, which would have been repaid, but of course also about preventing the enormous administrative burden that would have been caused. I think that was a great success. Above all, the energy levy is a very sensitive cost factor in the Austrian economy; I am thinking only of the success of the allocation plan, where it has also succeeded in bringing the economy not only in the right direction, but also in easing it. We shall vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9464	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9483	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The tragic occasion of this day obviously means that there are extremely short versions on very important points as well. For the Greens, energy taxation is already an essential area. You just have to light the thing from the right side. In reality, we have legislation and EU directives, which we understand in part with these two points, which first of all provide for energy taxation and then, subsequently, reimbursements, if you want to, include exemptions and so on. This is a very wide field. Without referring to the details: We will vote in favour of both points which are being negotiated here, because it is something in the right direction: both in Austria and in the directive, on the basis of which this change was strictly forced and which is at least a symbolic success for environmental and energy policy from an economic perspective. There is no environmental and energy policy in particular without the introduction of central economic and, above all, financial instruments. I will now, totally unpopularly perhaps, this tone, that we always need cheap energy costs, both for the households – I may see it there even more – and for the industry, not without exception. Why? The question, however, is one of the overall tax system in an economy, both for the European level and for the open national areas of play. And once we understand that, even where we are constantly talking about reforms, there can be such a thing as non-profit restructuring within a tax system, it is more likely that it would be much, much more sensible to abandon certain types of tax, and at least in the long term, but also in the medium term – in line with our perspective – to increase energy taxation. The only question the national economic legislator has to ask is: What about competitiveness? What spaces do we create? without certain farms simply wandering and then in the Czech Republic possibly produce the same harmful, which in fact does not win much. But you do not want to turn to this question! This was clearly reflected in your statement – not here today, but in the longer debate in the Committee. They do not at all address this future-looking question, whether and in what form we need a major restructuring, a real reorganisation. I'll throw that in front of you, and today's one of these opportunities to do it. We are talking here about these reimbursements, but in reality it is about the principle of energy taxation itself, a big throw. We want to control these in the future – and always under the title of an income neutrality. This is very important, and this also means that the mutual commitment to environmental issues which the political groups are constantly operating: He wants more for gasoline, the other wants that, the other one! I should like to remind you that you yourself as a government group, starting from the government negotiations and, of course, during the legislative periods, you make much smaller and larger increases in energy taxes. But you always prefer to say: The other is to blame! instead of you standing down and saying: Yes, it can't go on! We need to tax more strongly what we want to prevent if we already want to have a market economy and preach, that is, what is less wanted – and in this simplicity everyone should understand – can be taxed higher. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would have expected that these fundamental simple insights would simply be achieved once and not always polemise each other around, who is the worse taxpayer of anything. In fact, this is about structural reform. We will observe how this will work out in the next few years, and that will really be the sample of nails, for example for the ÖVP, who will send out former Federal Party owners to present various eco-social forums and other things, with appropriate beautiful names. But when it really matters, they all disappear completely behind the bush – and it's not even green. We will feel on your teeth, and that will be the crucial question of future economic and industrial policy. This is also a crucial question at European level. It is true that national areas are limited, and if we are discussing an EU energy tax directive here, the mandate for the future is quite clear: Above all, this has to be implemented, that we are going down in the taxation of work and going up in the taxation of energy sources. It's clear: The EU-25's national economic area allows much more scope than if this is done only within Austria. But to do that, let you miss any initiative. They point out that we are cancering in the lower part of the area, while our importance as a country that has always used economic instruments for environmental policy is increasingly slipping backwards. It has already overtaken us many countries, and our job will be to reverse the whole process in further negotiations, in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9556	Mr Mag, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9576	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. These agenda items are essentially about two issues: On the one hand, the aim is to reorganise the energy refund, with regard to the years 2002 and 2003. It has already been mentioned that there has been an aid procedure here which the Commission has tried against the Republic of Austria, namely: Is Austrian energy tax compensation a general tax measure that does not have to be approved by the Commission – or is it a State aid which is subject to authorisation? The Commission's decision was to consider the energy tax allowance as State aid – and therefore, in principle subject to authorisation – but we were able to reach agreement that the Commission had finally come to a conclusion and we reached a solution where, in 2002 and 2003, that is, years earlier, no repayments had to be made from the Austrian industry. Ladies and gentlemen! Here, repayments in a range of €900 million have threatened, which for the companies affected here is a very, very large sum and thus a threat to the location, a threat to jobs. In several negotiations at expert level, it has succeeded in finding a way of reimbursing, in political negotiations with Commissioner Monti, in spite of the classification as aid, so that a reorganisation – as I believe, absolutely in the interests of the economic and labour location – has been achieved. I believe that this is an important success. The second is the entry into force of the Energy Tax Directive, where we had to implement the energy tax allowance in accordance with the directive. They know that the remuneration limit is increased from 0.35 percent of the net production value to 0.5 percent. It has already been mentioned that other energy sources such as mineral oil and liquefied gas have been included in the remuneration. We have tried, after, as I believe, there is rightly a sensitivity to the economy in terms of the development of energy costs, to ensure that no additional burdens are associated with it. We were also able to achieve this, among other things, by entering into an under-yearly remuneration of reimbursement in so far as we pay 5% of the previous year's remuneration under-age, which until now has always been paid with a delay in February, April of the following year. Although the remuneration limit is increased from 0.35 to 0.5 percent of the net production value, no additional burden on industry and the economy, and with this, as I believe, we have achieved an important success. Mr Moser asked the question: How many companies fall out on the one hand, and how many are coming in on the other? – 50 companies are about to fall out. As a result, for example, of the addition of liquid gas and other components, new companies are also added. We estimate that about 400 companies are coming up again. That means there's more to it than anything else. The ecological steering was addressed and also the asymmetrical remuneration, the counterparts. – To this end, I would like to point out that we have the second stage of the tax reform concerning the family package and the pendler's fee, with 1. In July, a more than 15 % increase in the number of commuters entered into force. have reached the level. In this respect, I think – this issue concerns people who have a longer path to work – that also a corresponding compensate – look at the development of petrol prices, the diesel price development, i.e. the price increases, has been achieved to increase at the shuttle fee. – That is, I do not see this asymmetrical compensation in this form. Mr Kogler, you once again presented the basic context: leaving aside on the one hand, laying down on the other hand a necessary structural reform. – First of all: We agree that such structural reform is necessary. Secondly, I think it's a question of the dose. How to make such a structural reform? . Some time ago, we held relevant discussions on this matter. If you look at the measures we have taken in relation to petrol and diesel price increases, you will see that we have taken this step by taxing the consumption of natural resources more expensively on the one hand, and on the other hand – this is happening since the Federal Government has been doing so – you will see that we have reduced additional labour costs of between € 640 million and € 650 million. Their question also concerned competitiveness: Make comparisons! We discussed this at the ECOFIN yesterday: How do unit labour costs develop? The question of competitiveness is also linked to this. – The number mentioned by the ECB was interesting to me. Example Holland: Since the entry into force of the euro there has been an increase in unit labour costs of 27 percent in the Netherlands, and in Austria we had an increase in unit labour costs of only 3 percent. The European average is 10 percent. – That is to say, we have managed together to significantly improve Austria’s competitive position with our competitors through appropriate productivity progress. It has already been discussed in the Committee and we should discuss this important question: I believe that we all in this House are in favour of reducing human labour force and making natural resources and consumption more expensive. The question is, as I said, the dose. However, it is also a question of steering effects, for example in the payment of energy taxes. We are very happy to enter into a dialogue on this: How can we best implement national economic effects that we have in common as a goal? In total, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have achieved a good success. On the one hand, there is no repayment, and the economic and working location on the other hand is ensured by a good, non-profit implementation of the Energy Tax Directive, which we were able to achieve. I would like to thank you many times and also thank you for the approval that we – I say – have been able to reach together in an all-party consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9659	The next speaker was Mr Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9677	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has been rightly mentioned by previous speakers and by Mr Finanzminister that this law for the years 2002 and 2003 achieves retroactive reorganisation. And that which has threatened, namely, Reimbursement, is not taking place now. This is not a question from the point of view of the economy. Nevertheless, I would like to say the following: Two things have occurred here, namely, the increase in the limit value from 0.35 to 0.5% of the net production value and, on the other hand, compliance with the minimum tax rates. Of course, this results in a total of winners and losers, and of course, the overall performance will not be reduced by other measures for the economy. One advantage in this context is that there is the underage remuneration. This does not force businesses to pre-finance – and this will increase competitiveness. But in the final effect, those plants that have been heated with energy sources that have not yet been compensated will benefit: Coal, heating oils and liquid gas. Meanwhile, for example, the field of stone and ceramic industry will experience disadvantages and massive loads. I would like to say that we have not only this situation, but we also have the eco electricity surcharges, we have emissions trading, and we have road pricing. All of this, therefore, is a very stressful situation as regards the location of Austria. Mr Kogler referred to the Energy Tax Directive, which provides for uniform minimum rates for certain energy sources. This Directive also provides that discharges of particularly energy-intensive companies may and should be granted. And that is what we demand and wish from the point of view of the domestic economy, because the scope has not yet been extended in this way. Therefore, our wish is that we adopt a kind of location security law on energy load, because in the final effect, an operation itself has to evaluate what total loads are available, and can not only live with a part – for example, with the reimbursements – even if this is a quite positive solution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9722	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take their seats, because we are now voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Energy Charge Act, including the title and receipt in 586 of the Supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Coal Tax Act, together with the title and receipt in 587 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously the case. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. 15. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (465, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which a federal law on the sale of unmovable federal assets is passed and the Federal Property Act is amended (584 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9787	We're going to the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mrs Bures. Your time is set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9811	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the current item on the agenda, we are dealing with a government template on the sale of parts of a building complex in Vienna I, on Himmelpfortgasse/Kärntner Straße. It must be mentioned that in recent years, when this Federal Government has made divestments, it has come to the realization that they have been done in a not very exemplary way. The last privatisations of this federal government have not only led to criticism of the opposition, i.e. also of social democracy, but also to massive criticism of the Court of Auditors. I just want to remind you: The Court of Auditors, with a majority of privatisations, spoke of the fact that there was too much consultation costs and, in fact, too little sales revenues, and therefore there was no economic viability of sales and privatisations. And under these conditions, we should see this divestment of the Ministry of Finance. We should take a very careful look at this matter and deal with it sensitively. Today, we are giving the Minister of Finance and his government template the Okay for the sale of parts of the Ministry of Finance, with a sales revenue of €50 million to be expected. The purpose of these funds is to reorganise the historical part of the building in which the Ministry of Finance is to continue to stay. I think: So far so good! – In the course of the Committee debates, however, a number of questions were raised. If the sales revenue of €50 million is to be financed from the historical part in which the Ministry of Finance is to be relocated, then the question, Mr Finanzminister, is why the rent should be increased in such an exorbitant way at the taxpayer's expense. You, Mr Minister, have spoken in the Committee about the future of renting for this small part of €1.5 million. These are costs to be borne by the taxpayer. So it's 1.7 million schilling to have an order to pay for rent per month. This means an ongoing budget burden, which is not comprehensible after the renovation is carried out by the federal government's own resources. Mr Finanzminister, you have also announced in the Committee that there is no spatial concept. This country has also been waiting for the administrative reform to be used for personnel savings for five years. There is no administrative reform on the part of the government. And I remind you that the staff status of the Ministry of Finance in the Himmelpfortgasse increased by 4 percent from 2002 to 2003, from 829 to 863 employees. Therefore, neither the need for space nor the use of fewer officials can be mentioned. You, Mr Minister, do not have a recovery concept for the part you want to sell. As always, in your privatisation everything is floating, there is no balance sheet or preview about future cost development. Federal Minister! Under these dubious conditions, under which you want to sell these parts, there can be no serious consent from social democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9872	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9891	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It will not surprise you if I say that my position does not correspond to that of Mr Bures. We have already discussed this in the Financial Committee, and I have already said that I am very glad that we can decide today because I remember at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s when I was still State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, when then Minister of Finance Lacina said that it would not really be possible to use the most expensive real estate sites in the country as they are used by the financial administration today, but to sell them. At the time, there was the idea that it would actually have been possible to sell this large complex, which is not listed as a monument – the two palaces are completely out of dispute, which must be preserved – these most expensive of all real estates at appropriate market prices. I am very glad that we are doing this today. It was not possible for 15 years, now it is ready. This is also proof that this government constellation has a reform force that had no previous governments. You have to find out very soberly. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also pleased because the alternative would have been that these €70 million need for restoration for listed palaces should have been imposed by the taxpayer. That is why I think that this is a very intelligent and smart concept, to say that we do not want to burden taxpayers, but rather we want to realize an idea that is not new, but that has long before also ventilated and failed to achieve social-democratic finance ministers. Ladies and gentlemen! We agreed in the Financial Committee that we would take out the Klimt-Villa complex. At the time, there were fears that this issue would come back into a Ho-ruck action in second reading: But that's not the case. I have already said at the time that all four political groups have an interest in the preservation of this valuable cultural heritage. As long as there are open questions, as long as it is not ready for sale. I'm on it. We will need to develop a concept through the summer to ensure that we can implement this sale at the next financial committee meeting in early October. I believe that the time is sufficient to achieve legitimate cultural concerns. I believe that a kind of Klimt museum would be a valuable part of the entire museum landscape of Vienna, with the state not necessarily owned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9945	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e9963	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! In the sale of federal assets, it is always particularly important to consider to what extent the medium- and long-term advantage is. Mr Finanzminister, I should like to surprise you: I can gain something from your process that you want to hand over to the recovery of the “Winterpalais” property along the Carinthian Straße/Himmelpfortgasse or also to the Johannesgasse for the exploitation of the BIG. I think this is a very useful approach. We have already heard it, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I have already pointed out that Minister of Finance Lacina has considered the problem of reorganisation of the "winterpalais" to be at the doorstep, and that has been a long time since. Mr. Finanzminister Grasser, you have been sitting on this issue for at least four years now, and there is still today – which is now our problem point – no recovery concept for these properties that I have mentioned. Currently officials are still working there, there will be priority in commercial interests in the future – and there will be a recovery in terms of income from private enterprises soon in the room. As has been said, it would have been enough time to think about the development of these real estates, in what form they can be developed, so that they can bring the total sustainable income to the federal government. What are we doing now? – We hand over the whole of the federal real estate company. Of course, due to the short-term takeover and the short-term information, this had no way to develop appropriate recovery concepts – nor has it been possible to gain partners. If we accept this request now, we will issue you a free letter for recovery concepts, which we might then have to object to. That's why I'm looking for understanding, Minister of Finance. In principle, the process is to be renovated and costs saved or brought in by recovery, all right, but my problem is that we do not know how to use it. I would like to thank you for the information from your cabinet, where the officials who are now in the "Winterpalais" in the Himmelpfortgasse will settle. This bridge rental is very useful, takes place within the framework of the federal government and does not mean wasting tax money in the form of rents to third parties. But my problem goes a little further: They had to settle a public institution, namely the Statistics Austria, which is now again rented in the private sector. This is – let me find the general conclusion – in total with this federal property management or when hireing federal institutions into buildings of the free market for me the problem that then constantly flows out budget resources. In summary, this means: We reject the law with caution, but at the same time we thank for the fact that a cultural consensus could be established in the area of Klimt-Villa. We hope that at a next meeting we will be able to discuss even more closely the development of this cultural jewel and this cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10021	Mr Neudeck has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10045	Mr Faul! That was the wrong call again! Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At this item on the agenda are the distribution of the federal buildings at the Kärntner Straße site and their transfer to the BIG. Mr Moser has already assessed this positively, and what this means, if the opposition sees a positive real estate management, I do not want to lose any further words on it. I am surprised at Mr Bures, who still, although already the data on the sale of the federal housing companies are available, still believes that this has not been a good sales situation. If I remember that even in the case of a Vienna subsidiary, you wanted to keep the common good for so long, until a real-color society became the owner of these joint-profits – or not more of them – then I see your criticism as a blow of political little money and not as a subject of criticism. We have a land number on the last committee, namely the Feldmühlgasse in the 13th century. District, not taken from the list of historically significant buildings, because behind this object is the last studio of the world-famous painter Gustav Klimt and there for many years an association has been running the memorial for Gustav Klimt and we therefore wanted to give all providers the opportunity not only to get into possession of the price of this object, but also to provide this culturally valuable object with a cultural concept. I would therefore suggest that, although we are already entering the procurement negotiations, the object should only be taken from the list of historically significant objects if we have both a price fixation and a fixation regarding the concept, and would in this context suggest that we take a weighting here by saying: There is a weighting of the price with a certain percentage and the weighting of the cultural historical concept with a certain percentage. The price offer and the offer of the cultural historical concept should be made separately, so that a separate assessment can be carried out and is only established when these two components of the best bidder are merged. It is therefore the object and the cultural historical importance, I believe, to gain positive aspects, and I believe that by doing so also the museum landscape and The site of Vienna, which is particularly important in Vienna's workshops and Art Nouveau, is enough to be done.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10093	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Hoscher in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10112	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we absolutely agree that there is an urgent need for renovation. I myself have been sitting in a room for many years, which then had to be supported; that is, the renovation was long overdue. But you know very well, Mr President, why we agreed between ÖVP and SPÖ at the time not to have this building constructed as quickly as possible. This was also discussed with State Secretary Ditz at the time. I think today is not necessarily the time to address all these arguments, but you probably know enough about it anyway. With regard to the building, it is not so much about the fact that there is now a undoubtedly necessary renovation of this palace, but the question is: What is the staff concept behind this? . I believe that in this respect, including in the Committee, much more questions have been left open than answers have been given. There's nothing bad about that, I just think that, like the Klimt Villa, maybe some details would have to be clarified before you put in this template. If I read the explanations on this, for example, that new work models are planned under this concept and also in the transfer concept, I would certainly be interested to see if these new work models, for example, go beyond the early retirement model. Or: If the Minister of Finance in the Financial Committee says literally about this staff concept: I cannot now mention binding figures!, which is not quite incomprehensible, but also notes that the number of staff will at least fall so much that resettlement in the Palais is possible, then I believe that these figures would be very interesting to us, because, on the basis of the staff concepts that are known to us and which were also discussed, we do not think such resettlement in this palace is possible, because the number of plantations there will not fall so much. That means: For this reason, too, because we believe that there are still some questions to be resolved here, our website will not approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10148	The next speaker was Mr Fassleven. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10166	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The refurbishment of the former “Winterpalais” or the Palais Kaunitz by an amount of €70 million, says about 1 billion of Austrian schilling, is undoubtedly one of the largest cultural projects that has ever existed in Austria, similar to the renovation of Schönbrunn. I would like to congratulate you on the importance it has of its cultural value: This combination of Italian high Baroque and French classics, a construction built by Johann Bernhard Fischer von Erlach and extended by Lukas von Hildebrandt – and thus the largest Austrian Baroque builders – is an art-historical rarity, which should also have its corresponding expression. However, I think it equally important that this renovation is not simply done from budget resources, but that you have found a way to carry out a renovation in your own area, so to speak, by surrendering other federal entities. I can only strengthen you in this because I believe that it is absolutely necessary to go this way – and continue it on other projects. I would like to strengthen you, Mr Federal Minister, but also that it is necessary to obtain capacity from outside in such projects, because even if there is a very high advisory capacity in your own ministry, such special projects, both in terms of artistic, art policy advice, as well as in terms of financial advice on the market, should simply be purchased market capacity. This is not only in the private sector, but it should also be with the state in the future, and in the best sense it will ensure that the principle of economic efficiency and economy is taken into account.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10203	The next speaker was Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10221	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr Fassleven, it is precisely the question whether it is economic or not, because we already had the sale of essential properties. And, Minister of Finance, you have not been able to explain to the Financial Committee why certain parts of the building are indispensable. They only meant: optimized space use. – What does that mean? – We were not informed about that. They also talked about new work models. We were not informed about that either. Apparently, the patent office building on the coal market was also indispensable. This has heard the covenant, it has been sold to a company called BIG BIZ... – No, it was not sold to the company BIG BIZ, but the servants of the Federal Patent Office have been transferred from the Kohlmarkt to the Danube City and rented there in a company BIG BIZ. That means: We had property, and we are now paying rent for the employees of the Patent Office. Another case - I told you in committee - is the Finanzamt Freistadt. The castle building in which the financial office was housed was sold to the federal real estate company. The staff of the Finanzamt Freistadt are still in the same building. The federal government pays rent. It is really a question of whether a private person does such things when he is renovated: first builds a house, sells the house and then rents himself back into the house. – Mr Finance Minister, if the debt of the government budget had fallen, one could still talk about it, but the debt of the government budget has increased! So the question of economics cannot be resolved by far with this argument.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10254	From the government bank comes Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Grasser's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10273	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. In short, to this item on the agenda a few remarks from my page: First of all, it was said by Mrs Bures that we did not really act exemplaryly in our disposals. In this context, I would like to refer to a debate that we held during the last plenary session on the sale of just over 60,000 federal apartments, which we were able to sign yesterday, after we had received the approval from the Council of Ministers, a transaction, ladies and gentlemen, in which we had €2,639 billion in transaction revenue, including the acquisition of the debt, which, on the other hand, faced advisory expenses of just over €8 million. If you calculate this if you draw international comparisons, if you see how good the price we have received, then I am looking forward to the audit of the Court of Auditors, which will be safe and secure in this regard. Then we will see whether the Court of Auditors, which has once said, we need to get a little more than €500 million in liquid resources, direct proceeds – and we have actually received more than € 1 billion! – will say that this was a very economic and very useful transaction we have carried out here. You, Mrs Bures, have also spoken about the administrative reform, and you have been waiting for this administrative reform for several years, and you have addressed the staff status of the Federal Ministry of Finance. I just want to say: The staffing level is dramatically lower than what I took over from my colleague Edlinger, both at the headquarters, the Federal Ministry of Finance in Vienna, compared to 1999, and it is significantly lower for the entire financial administration than what I have taken over. That is to say, we were one of the model resorts that all the requirements we set ourselves in terms of stoppage, in terms of reducing the level of staff while at the same time maintaining the quality of the performance itself, all of these goals have achieved very well. The entire federal administration has so far made savings of more than € 1 billion since 2000. This means that we are not waiting for an administrative reform here, but we are very, very successful and have sometimes had more than 70 administrative reform projects implemented at the same time at the federal level. We are taking this issue seriously, and we have achieved substantial success for the taxpayer! As regards the question of Himmelpfortgasse itself: First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that there is obviously no dispute that the renovation is carried out in principle – that has been noted by several – because I also think that the “winterpalais” in the Himmelpfortgasse is such a valuable and historical building substance that it must be preserved. Monument protection and so on, all these conditions were given to us accordingly. Secondly, As Mrs Moser said, in all the differences – and I thank her for this – that we are actually a little behind that we could have done this before, I would just like to say: Ladies and gentlemen, I would simply ask you to consider what you would have done as Minister of Finance if, at the beginning of your work, you were to have the section heads on it. It would have been made clear that there should be 700 million schilling in the refurbishment at the time – that was the order of magnitude. Then you won't say as one of your first decisions there: We are starting now and starting to clean up our own house with 700 million schillings!, although some finance ministers have not done so before you, but have said that the Ministry of Finance has a special proof of how economical, how to hold back, how useful, how economically we deal with the money. That is why I consciously also agreed with the Monument Office, as long as it had just gone, to do something about this decision. Secondly, we have said that we not only want to spend money here and renovate what is necessary, but we are looking for self-financing – I also thank you for having been partially recognized – because we have simply said: If we have the situation that at the most expensive location in Vienna, adjacent to the Kärntner Straße, there is first of all an architecturally not particularly successful building in the sense of a post-war building, to the second at the most expensive position in Vienna public administration and we have the objective of reducing our staffing, then it is a wise consideration to raise the question: Can we not, on our own initiative, bring in the costs of renovation through such project development and thus relieve taxpayers? - Alternative one: It's easy to get paid by the taxpayer. Alternative two: One makes such exploitation and achieves self-financing. Nothing else was our interest. Mrs Moser! That is why we have no time pressure because we have thought exactly about timetables. For example, the BIG was informed a year ago. Why doesn't the BIG have recovery concepts and all these things yet? - That's because you've been made clear: The Ministry of Finance is expected to withdraw from the existing building complex Himmelpfortgasse in 2006, is expected to be dislocated for a period of four years and is to return after the complete renovation of the historical part. – That is to say, there is no time pressure, and it is now sufficient time – throughout the rest of the year 2004, the whole year 2005 – to carry out these recovery concepts and the development together with a private, in the sense of a PPP model, according to previous tendering and best bidder verification accordingly. That is, I think, in total, this is really a thoughtful and thoughtful, clever project that serves the taxpayer who serves the city of Vienna, because to this very central location there either a hotel or a shopping center, whatever comes, because a new architecture takes the place of the existing one, also in the sense of a modern and good architectural contribution, and we are just able to relieve the taxpayer accordingly. Why is it unnecessary?, Mrs Hagenhofer asked. Ladies and gentlemen, if we significantly reduce our staff status – and I have said in the Committee that we now have 670 employees and will be able to go under 600 – it is clear that the building parts that become free, where no more employees are sitting are indispensable – that was my definition – and therefore can stand up for appropriate exploitation and thus bring in money. In contrast to Mrs Bures, Mrs Moser – thanking me – has said that we do not have to pay rents to outsiders, but it is quite clear that if the Federal Property Company now buys a 100 percent subsidiary of the Federal Government from the Republic for €50 million, we will also pay a rent to our 100 percent subsidiary from the time of sale until we move out, then again later on. In order to be able to meet the That means it's a business right pocket – left pocket. It's not a rent we have to pay to anyone outside. Ladies and gentlemen! That is, in sum, that is, I think, an exemplary process through which we achieve self-financing, finally carry out the renovation of the historical building substance, achieve an upgrading for the city of Vienna and then reach suitable conditions for the employees in a compact construction substance. In my opinion, therefore, a model project! That is why I thank all those who have encouraged us for their support. We shall also try to do so in other cases. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10349	I would like to thank the Minister for his statement. Mrs Bures spoke in favour of an actual correction. Madam honourable Member, you certainly know § 58 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and therefore begin safely with the reproduction of the claim to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10373	Of course, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not really want to correct the alleged best practice in this divestment, but I would actually like to correct that the Minister of Finance has said that in the course of the administrative reform there has been a dramatic low level of staff in the Ministry of Finance. – The figures show the opposite! So I'm actually correcting: Rather, it is true – and the personnel capacity, Federal Ministry of Finance, Central, budgetary representation, shows –: [[Abg. May. Mr Molterer: Mr President! That's not a correction! – What is that? That's a speech!]] The staffing position in the Ministry of Finance was 31. ==References====External links== increased to 863 December 2003 – an increase of 4 percent in the staff level! [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is a speech!]] Therefore: No dramaticly low level of staff – and therefore also criticism of the administrative reform and the non-existent human resources concepts. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mr President, this is a speech! This is not an actual correction!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10437	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. 3 minutes of speaking time will be adjusted. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10459	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I think that this matter of law gives the opportunity to congratulate Mr Grasser once again on an exemplary approach to the economic and financial plan of this sale – better: capitalisation and better use of the properties – and certainly a way of doing so to a finance minister. I believe that the SPÖ's criticism should be weakened by the fact that the self-financing of this investment is basically also a way of fulfilling the administrative reform that the Federal Government has undertaken. In all, then, from our point of view, there is only a useful measure to be seen in this, and we will, of course, give our consent to this approach.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10488	Now, Mr. Federal Minister Mag speaks. Grass to us. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10506	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Since the administrative reform has been addressed again and I really do not want to leave the impression that we have more employees, I may also present to you the fairness of the comparison: In the Central Ministry of Finance: 1. January 1999: 1,091 employees. 1. January 2004: 910 employees. – That means a very clear reduction. Total financial management: 1. January 1999: 17 415 employees. 1. January 2004: 14 029 employees. The total activity has even fallen in absolute terms, from € 536 million to € 523.7 million in the same period of consideration. That means you see: We are not only talking about administrative reform, but we are also living it and we are actually achieving great savings for taxpayers! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10540	Mr Dkfm is now speaking. Dr. Bauer. 2 minutes welcome. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10558	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We therefore reject the item on the agenda which is now under discussion, because it actually shows the same picture in the preparation as in all the preparations for the sale. There is no appropriate concept, no space-needing concept, no real use concept – nor at the Klimt villa. I am very glad that at least this project will be postponed in treatment. It's just too little thought about what's going on in sales. This has been similar with many other divestments. But I think it's important to talk about the concepts. Mr Federal Minister, if you have concepts, then put them on the table, then we can discuss them fairly. - That's the first one. Secondly, because it is said that the idea of coronation is so to speak, that one is financed by the sale of another building. I would like to ask the purely economic question: What would a private person have if he sold another building complex for the respective renovation of a building? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second question: How many times can he do that? Rehabilitating a house by selling another building – and then, yes, you have to sell the building yourself with another renovation. So this approach is not so great! Thirdly, I would like to say: There was also a debate in Lower Austria about whether we should sell the Lower Austrian country house in Vienna. I crossed over at the time, and a unanimous decision of the country was then taken that we should keep it. We have now rented the building – in the best location and soon excellently renovated – to the federal government. Why should the federal state of Lower Austria know and understand less than those brokers who have also put the Turkish left in their hands there? We have kept our country house in Vienna, rented to the federal government and reserved the historic spaces for us. – I ask: Is this so difficult that you always need expensive advisors? Is this so difficult that no official of the Federal Ministry of Finance manages to organize such – actually simple – processes? I don't think so! Again: We are therefore opposed to this draft law, Mr Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And I add that one already has to assume that the Republic has not only to maintain historical buildings, but also a certain asset substance to maintain – and not just to sell out!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10618	Last speaker on the speaker list: Mrs Dr. Moser. 2 minutes welcome. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10637	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Just briefly: A word on an actual correction would have been wrong, but a communication on your part, Mr Finanzminister, I cannot simply leave it that way. Today, they have – not necessarily in accordance with the agenda, but in a broad context – once again addressed the so-called success in selling the state-owned housing companies with a total proceeds of over €2 billion. Mr Minister, you have told us, I believe, in the years 2000 and 2001, that by this sale you will save net 30 billion schilling for the budget. Now that this sum, most of which are two thirds of which are outstanding loans, is to be said to be sales success, I cannot leave it in the room. – Mr Minister, please stick to the actual figures! These 2 billion € include the outstanding loans, which you can't always put as budget success. That's what you originally wanted, but unfortunately it's not.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10664	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. In order to make it clear to the honourable Members, I would ask that this vote be taken so that we can take the vote. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 584 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who also agree with this draft law at third reading to give a corresponding sign. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 16. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (477, e.g._Other Organiser Convention pursuant to Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations and declarations (585 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10718	We're going to the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. As the first speaker, Mrs Tamandel takes the floor and speaks to us for 4 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10746	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Internal security in the European Union is threatened by international organised crime. The perpetrators of tax evasions, drugs and fraud benefit from the reduction of border controls and the free movement of goods in the new Europe. In addition to deepening mutual assistance, new forms of cross-border operational cooperation are needed. European customs, police and judicial cooperation must develop in parallel so that the internal market can be an area of freedom, security and justice. Title IV of the Convention sets out the special cross-border cooperation between national customs administrations, among other things, on illegal trafficking in drugs to which I now wish to refer. The 2004 World Drug Report shows that about 3 percent of the world’s population have committed illegal drug abuse over the past 12 months. A small percentage of the world’s population abuses cocaine or opiates, which are by far but mostly abused substances, cannabis, followed by amphetamine-like stimulants. Where illegal drugs are consumed, it is also natural to act. Fighting drug trafficking requires internationally coordinated strategies. The diversity of drug trafficking is shown by the experience of Austria and Europe in this regard, in the 2003 drug report of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. For example, the Vienna-Schwechat airport is still used as a hub for international illicit drug trafficking. The smuggling of addicts in luggage, however, has declined, the body smuggling and the shipping of drugs by letters, packages and rail shipments are increasing. Foreign criminal groups dominate the smuggling and trafficking of illegal drugs in Austria. Austria is mainly a transit country for addictions within the European Union due to its geographical situation. In addition to the criminal offenders from Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Liberia – specialised in trade with heroin and cocaine – a blatant increase of suspects from other African countries, such as Gambia, has been identified and isolated from the Ivory Coast. The Balkan route with its branches is after we are predominating smuggling path for heroin. In addition to the traditional route through Turkey to Austria, the ferry connections between Turkey and Italy and between Albania and Italy are increasingly used for transport. Former Eastern Bloc countries continued to be used as depositary countries. Albanian groups are still active, from which the heroin continues to be transferred to Austria and Western Europe. Despite the successes already achieved by the judiciary and security guards, intensive action must be taken, in particular international cooperation must be forced to reduce and combat the extent of drug trafficking. This Convention is a good basis for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10797	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. 3 minutes speaking time. – As the honourable Member is not in the room, the following speakers: Mr Bucher, five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10815	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Money laundering, fraud – organised crime is becoming more and more dangerous. It is important that cross-border cooperation and assistance are also applied in a targeted manner. This Convention ensures that the law-making of a customs-law amendment law is achieved, for example, as well as the merger of police, customs and Gendarmerie. Of course, we liberties will give our consent to this sensible measure, but it is a command of the hour and a command of time to limit organized crime by concerted action.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10843	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Desirable 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e10861	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Some questions have already been raised, but I would like to turn to the first speaker on this item on the agenda. On the one hand, I would like to say that we would really prefer to make other contributions here in order not to have just the suspicion that this speech has been put up by the Ministry of the Interior. This is a far greater issue than the one you have set out here, Mrs Tamandl. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you want to prescribe what she should say?]] - No, I don't want that! I know this is tricky. However, if you realize that someone reads only from the leaf, and then at the same time has to realize that only a very specific segment of the thing has been tangled, you can already get the impression that here in plenary [[Abg. May. Molterer: You will certainly not censor an ÖVP member, Mr Kogler!]] As in committees, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, where the Members of your group, in particular, are interested in raising questions which have clearly been prepared in the ministries. [[Abg. May. Molterer: A strange understanding!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is your special concept of democracy!]] The fact that this is really not the best for parliamentarianism is that you will agree with me! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: We will not let you dictate what someone thinks and says!]] Mr Klubobmann, I know that this is sensitive, I do not want to criticise the fact that there has been only a certain contribution to content, but: [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's not sensitive, that's undemocratic! Take it back!]] If, at the same time, the impression is that a speech has obviously been prepared by someone else, there is already a problem with certain debates here in the house. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Yes, Mr. Oberlehrer!]] You already have to bear in mind that this is determined at least once in between! It will probably be possible to endure this in one day, where one suddenly pretends to be able to hold “symphony-reds” for a maximum of two minutes due to the tragic events. – I noticed this a few times today! Again: It must be possible – in the case of all the consensus we always have, especially in the Financial Committee; otherwise, we agree to this proposal, if you then look at the voting behaviour – to note here a few things that you at least notice. That too is a right of Members! [[Abg. May. Molterer: But you will not be able to censor the right to speak by Members!]] Now to the matter itself: It is not just that we have drug problems – yes, they are, and I do not want to contradict the first speaker at all; not at all – but, of course, there are also very specific fraud problems in the financial field. And here I already have the impression that we are rather lax in these areas here in Austria and are behind them. We are often very happy to have EU directives because Austria does not always show up with special – let us say it in your Jargon – defence measures in this area. That is why the agreement, Mr Klubobmann, and our agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11003	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. My question is to the Socialist Group: Will Mr Matznetter still speak: yes or no?, because I have to ring in. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter nodding.]] – Your word message remains therefore upright. Wishing time? - 2 minutes. Mr Maier, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11030	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Social democracy is committed to international cooperation between customs administrations. We believe that this is absolutely necessary, not only – and this has already been mentioned by my previous speaker – because it is about combating illegal trafficking in drugs, but also about the financial interests of the Community, fraud and the like. This is where international cooperation is needed, and that is why we will agree to this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! This Convention was concluded in 1997. At that time, it was not considered whether the customs guard was once dissolved. At that time, no one thought about whether the European Union was being expanded in this form. Federal Minister! We have already expressed our concerns in the Financial Committee. We believe that if Austria has the appropriate explanations on this Agreements with the new accession countries were drawn up, and you, Mr Federal Minister, also told Parliament about them. At present, we know only the Austrian declarations, especially concerning Switzerland on the one hand and Germany, which are based on the Schengen Convention. Federal Minister! Of course, we also see other problems with the resolution of the customs guard – Mr Matznetter will then make a corresponding request – because this agreement is designed to ensure that there is a customs guard. If we look at the specific forms of cooperation, namely the question of cross-border after-sales, the hidden investigation, the cross-border observation, then we can see the deficits, because especially in this area when customs administrations operate cross-border, we have to identify ourselves accordingly. Only: We in Austria no longer have a customs guard! What we Socialists particularly miss in this Convention – but that was not a subject in 1997 – is that this Convention cannot be used to combat social fraud in Europe. Mr Federal Minister, we believe that this is a shortcoming! In Germany, the customs duty is responsible for combating social fraud; at least there could be international cooperation, however: This international cooperation, especially in the truck sector, is going off. At the same time, we expect this agreement – and I say quite clearly – to extend the existing institutions in the Ministry of Finance in the Internet area, that drugs can continue to be seized, as they have so far been seized by the MÜGs, because this is what we owe to our society, especially our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11084	Next speaker is MP Dkfm. Dr. Bauer. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11103	Mr President. Federal Minister! We will vote in favour of this proposal, as this represents an important further step in improving the cooperation of customs authorities. This will also combine the 1967 Naples Convention at that time and continue a proper path to greater security. In this context, however, there is also criticism – criticism which seems to me to be quite justified – of the question of adequate equal treatment of customs authorities of a state on the territory of another State with the same powers and possibilities. While the States which have a corresponding guard body are allowed to operate on our territory, within a radius of 10 and 20 kilometres, we do not have this possibility, on the basis of the current regulation, because we no longer have uniform and armed customs guards. And that is, as I mean, a sharp inequality! – I do not really consider the shamed reference to wearing an armband to be a target in carrying out this important task. I would like to mention briefly the following because the border regions are also affected: We have here taken a decision in the House on the protection of domestic transporters in the border country, namely with regard to the importation of 25 pieces of cigarettes. packs that may be introduced – but only these! And how is the whole thing controlled today? Who cares about it at the border after the customs guard has been dissolved? Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot take decisions here that protect certain groups in the border region, but ultimately do not organise control in such a way that it is at all possible to avoid such violations of law. Although we agree with the proposal for a law, I believe that it would be necessary to clarify these questions in the interests of the border region, but also in the interests of equality of powers between states, because the possibility of moving forward on our territory by our neighbours, but the de facto ban on Austria, to act equally in the neighbouring countries, I do not think it is right and would think that this should be eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11154	Proposal for a Council Decision on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Mr Dr. Matznetter. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11172	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Bauer, I think, has made it very clear that we want to see in a common Europe also in the area of financial crime, the customs offence what we want in the cooperation of the police authorities, an effective persecution of perpetrators, because only that ensures that there are no different situations of the Member States and lack of pressure to deal with illegal transactions, smuggling and similar things. However, we believe that Austria has a problem with the other Member States because it no longer has a very essential instrument: After the abolition of the uniformed customs guard, we do not have a uniformed and armed guard, which is available for all kinds of financial offences. We have therefore tabled an application which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] We are making this request again because we believe that we need such a thing. And I urge the government groups to: Give yourself a back, agree! Such an authority brings money and costs little. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do not put your disapproval on the side of those who are happy if there is no appropriate persecution! Take the opportunity! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11233	Mr Dr. Mr Matznetter's motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. In the word, no one has been reported for this. We therefore come to the vote, and I ask you to take the places! The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are now voting on the request of the Financial Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty, together with declarations in 477 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – That is so unanimously decided. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Matznetter and colleagues on the preservation of the customs guard's know-how and the creation of a financial police force. This request was tabled by the last speaker. This is in itself a process that we do not very much appreciate. I would like to ask the club members whether they had the opportunity to study this request as well. [[Abg. Scheibner's noding.]] - Did they have it? Then we can vote on it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is not the majority and therefore rejected. 17. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (545, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act on the disposal of unmoving federal assets (588 d.b.) 18. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (553 e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the United Mexican States on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth and the Protocol (589, e.g.) 19. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (556 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Motor Vehicle Liability Insurance Act 1994, the Railway and Motor Vehicle Liability Act, the Reichshaftpflichtgesetz, the Piper's Act and the Gas Economic Act (590 d.b.) 20. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 64/A (E) by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues and colleagues on the refund of VAT on firearms and charities in the acquisition of new equipment (591 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11334	We now come to points 17 to 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Auer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11358	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to speak on two points 19 and 20 of the agenda at this item on the agenda. On the one hand, the aim is to increase the amount of liability insurance and on the other hand the application concerning firearms and charities. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I've been on the 12th. In June 2002, a request was sent to the Minister of Justice responsible for increasing the minimum amount of cover of the amount of compulsory insurance in the case of vehicles. Interesting at that time was the answer. In the reply given by the Rules of Procedure in August of the same year, Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer announced: Yes, it would be imaginable to consider, after waiting for a certain period of time, whether one should approach an increase in liability insurance amounts. I am expressly grateful for the fact that the preparation is still in its term of office and we are going to take this decision today, and I am really convinced that this is an important measure, because traffic accidents in particular due to difficult circumstances can also be more cost-intensive. And it is very important for the injured, especially, that the amount of insurance is sufficient. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I do not want to hide my respect for my colleague, Mr Maier, who in the committee responsible pointed out that something was not quite clear in the wording. It would then have been an increase in premiums perhaps from two sides imaginable or feasible. This was finally remedied in a very interesting, reasonable discussion that took place in good agreement. That is why I also respect my colleagues, Maier. I would like such measures to be more imaginable. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that this problem has been solved by today's decision. Thus, in the event of such accidents and damage, sufficient care has been taken, with all of us hoping that they will never suffer. Certain measures must also ensure that they are kept as low as possible. On the second point or, more specifically, on item 20 of the agenda, namely the SPÖ's request for the refund of VAT on firearms and charities when buying new equipment. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the aim is to agree that it is necessary to take measures to secure these institutions financially. On the Commission's In the course of this process, Mr Heinzl, in his request, which he explained at one of the last National Council meetings, may well have been discussed, that a certain refund in the conventional sense is not possible because of EU illegality, but that one should think about measures and possibilities. Yes, we have to think, and I believe that a common path has been taken, especially with the motion for a resolution within the Committee, in which the Federal Government is called upon to consider such measures and to consider their legality. However, I would also like to make it clear what I have already said in the Committee: In the end, it is the same for fire brigades, by which measures they get resources. It's completely Wurst – apologise for this way of expression! – which financial means allow them to make the most necessary purchases. I still have two figures to support the need for these. In Upper Austria, fire control regulations require that vehicles be changed every 15 years. Because of financial difficulties, this is currently on average only every 25 years. No one could afford to drive such old vehicles to certain uses in the private sector! Secondly, It says very often that the most beautiful houses are the firehouses and each small community had two or three fire brigades. – Ladies and gentlemen! My Wels-Land district has 65 000 inhabitants and 44 fire brigades. So not even each municipality has on average two, so there are at least 1,500 inhabitants per fire brigade. If I add the town of Wels, which is surrounded by this district, to 60,000 inhabitants, then a fire brigade will be added. So there is a population of about 125 000 and an area of 50,000 hectares. I therefore believe that it is not acceptable if we are criticized that we should help the voluntary institutions, especially the fire brigades, to finance the necessary equipment. They themselves make huge personal efforts, personal commitment, but above all they also make huge sums personally, whose investment ultimately also benefits the economy: whether in the car sector, whether in the purchase of equipment or in the construction of firehouses or other facilities. In the end, the federal government also collects its VAT. We must therefore consider by the end of this year – that is why I also ask the Federal Government's experts – how funding can be ensured.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11432	Mr Eder. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Requested speaking time 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11450	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to take a brief look at item 19 of the agenda, namely the increase in minimum legal amounts in liability insurance, and may also address the honourable Member. It is important to respect that he has correctly reported that there has been a constructive discussion in the Committee about any double increase in liability insurance. We've seen it like that. I have already said in the Committee that it should not be the case that, on the basis of the increase in these minimum liability amounts, we should begin to think about the form in which further sluggish increases could be introduced. I should like to remind you, above all, that we are At the time, under the Federal Minister Reichhold, in the decision-making process on the multi-phase leader's license, tried to contact insurance companies in order to enable all those young driver's licence holders who undergo this multi-phase training, which costs more money but also brings more security to make more favourable premiums in liability insurance. Unfortunately, this has only been perceived by very few insurance companies. On the contrary, I can say that there are things that should not actually be, today, especially those insurance companies that handle liability insurance. For example, the possibility that young people's insurance accounts are linked to life insurance has been opened; otherwise they will not receive liability insurance at all. Or someone who wants a cheaper premium must commit to repairs after accidents not in Austria, but in neighbouring countries, where this is cheaper. So I don't think all these things should break in any time. I should like to ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to help with the supervision of insurance that such increases in liability insurance are kept as far as possible. On the other hand, I would also like to ask the insurance companies and the transport ministers once again to start the negotiations so that all those young drivers who are willing to do more for their safety in the course of training will also receive a cheaper liability insurance premium. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11486	Mr Böhmdorfer has now come to the speaker's desk for his young speech. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11505	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Dear Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I too am referring mainly to item 19 on the agenda, because it is very important to me. The Minister of Finance is rarely pleased that a law prepared in the Ministry of Justice could be discussed in the Financial Committee. We acknowledge that we would also have liked to discuss it in the Committee on Justice, because we always prefer this detailed and well-kept discussion, but this was unfortunately not acceptable to us. Perhaps the next time we prepare a law for another ministry – involuntarily – is possible. The fact is that we recently had to find a small gap in the system of liability insurance, which has forced us to act. The Austrian and everyone who travels our country or who always participates in road transport has a claim and knows that if he has been innocently victim of a traffic accident, he is entitled to full compensation. Here, however, it has been found that the current liability insurance amounts of €1.1 million, which are around 15 million schilling, in some cases – about ten to 20 per year – are not enough. The consequence is terrible for the families and the injured. The consequence is that the person who caused the damage is, unlike the usual system in bankruptcy, ruined, possibly with his family, and that even the injured, although innocent victims of a traffic accident, do not receive full compensation. In other words, we have had to raise these liability insurance amounts from € 1.1 million to € 3 million and in the field of the ECHG from € 292,000 to € 800 000. Although it is an example you can also fight, I can tell you one thing: We had the big-scale Kaprun event, and it has been seen that even small causes can have great effects, and that can happen – in this case it was not so – in road traffic as well. And then it is particularly dramatic when a large number of people do not come to their legitimate claims for damages. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have also made other adjustments. But we also have a great concern – let me say that, please. We are concerned that liability insurance institutions could not be quite fair or fairer than they might be, and that they could take this increase in liability insurance amounts to the point of demanding a premium increase – the consumer protection officer is looking at me critically – which in fact does not allow them economically in strict calculation. My request undoubtedly also applies to the Minister of Finance to use his climatic possibilities and at least these, so that such abuse, such an abuse, does not take place. The market would have to give it to you. A maximum of one to two cases per insurance institution could be struck, and this can be done with certainty. In Germany, a few years ago, the insurance amount increased from 500 000 D-Mark to 7 million D-Mark, and the premium increase took place only by 1 to 1.5 percent. So the 3 percent placed in the room in Austria are certainly covered and not necessary. Also, some insurance companies in Austria already offer up to 10 million schillings without requiring higher premiums. So if we are all attentive, especially if the consumer protectionists are attentive, then what we fear may not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11562	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11580	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Like the first speaker, I would like to turn to Agenda item 19 and then to Agenda item 20. At TOP 19: To the remarks of such a competent speaker, you don't have to say so much, just one more of course: What has not yet been carried out is that, in the course of these minimum liability amounts, we have not only the passenger car, but also the truck question inside. It is clear to everyone that in the event of some accidents, which are now indebted independently, the truck represents a much greater potential for danger than the passenger car; would you like to think. There are also certain differentiations, but in our opinion, the old proportion has not been the one that expressed this different risk potential. And if we only increase by factor, that will not change either. That's the wormhead drop on this thing. As far as the area of trucks is concerned, we think it would have been much closer to what is to be estimated and needed for accidents and unwholesome chains which, as Mr Ex-Justice Minister has said, can actually occur again and again in the transport sector. It should be clear to us that this occurs in the truck fleet system rather than in the passenger fleet, although cars represent the greater number. That's a big advertising drop, as we think, but still our approval, because it's almost triple, and that's something, you already have to note. But the great thing would have been, or could have been, that with the minimum liability amounts as legislators, we would have had the opportunity, or would have, to introduce a market economy instrument into transport and environmental policy. What's going to happen? – Mr Mitterlehner will be shocked again – he is lucky, he is not in the hall. What's going to happen? – Of course, insurance will increase premiums. But quite rightly, because it has to be somewhere in the cost structure... – If you want to get into a micro-economic discourse with me, Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner, then of course the question “For whom?” is the right question, whether there are cross-traffickings, whether, for example, because of the demand structure, the car owners would be more used than the truck owners. [[Abg. Scheibner: The question is: For whom? For everyone?]] You can never rule out that, that's right. Nevertheless, we must not, as it were, leave out the necessary or stand on half the way, because if this were to be half fair, we would have the higher premiums for the truck fleets and, look at the corresponding cost factors that actually occur sooner or later for society, because what is not covered is paying for society. The classic case of external costs internalized, as you say. Strike it down. It's going in the right direction, but this differentiation is going off. In this sense, I can make a bold leap and turn to the subject of fire brigade, which is becoming increasingly strained here. Originally, the application for Gusenbauer concerns the use of certain tax refunding measures in order to make certain investments in the field of fire brigades better. For this, there is pro and counter – we have not determined, you know, because even with positive findings on this matter, it would still be unpleasant to look for exceptions in the tax system. The question of EU conformity is another issue that needs to be clarified anyway. That is why the request would not have been as bad as I think, because then the Federal Government would have had to follow this order and look at what would be possible and what was not and how it was similar to other cases. I have never made a locust that we are not so excited about this process, but would prefer another one – and that is now open and acceptable –: Then, if there is a need for support for public affairs – and the fire brigades, of course – one should choose the optimal support and funding instrument; this must not only be the tax burden. We have discussed this in detail in the Committee. The fact that the fire brigades should also be stopped, Mr Auer, to work as efficiently as possible and to use the means, is, I believe, clear. - You can't hear that anymore. I do not necessarily want to get back into this populism race, and I say that: I sometimes feel that the fire brigades aren't all perfectly structured. The famous question is: Why two firearms in a place?, where this does not depend on the municipal boundaries, for they are partly arbitrary; I know it from my home community. You yourself, Mr Auer, have brought the example – if I have really noticed it – of 44 fire brigades for 65 000 inhabitants. There we have a nice per capita quota. That this is the optimal allocation, as it's so beautiful, I'm not so sure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] But I admit – this is never said here – that the fire brigades also have a very different function, especially in rural areas: a social function, an association function. - That's so far okay. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Not just okay, that's good!]] But if then the device allocation is always that optimal, I can already question it. What's the point? – Each Village wants its fire brigade because it obviously has a social function. But whether every village needs the latest armor vehicles is another question. And if, for example, we talk about hospital closures so often, we will also introduce the efficiency criterion to the promotion of fire brigades – would be an exciting way of thinking. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Are you a fireman?]] - I'm not a fireman. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You know that!]] But of course it is the question of how targeted public funds are used. That's what you need to ask yourself! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11665	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Long rider. Desirable time: 3 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11683	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I should like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] These are completely editorial changes. Of course, as far as this legislative project is concerned, we are also pleased that the minimum amount of insurance is almost tripled. This ultimately serves the victim protection and the debtor. I believe that the so-called premium adjustment clauses will certainly not be the major issue, because in the end there are either the Either- or the provisions, either linked to the CPI or the contractual dispositions within the individual companies. This will be regulated in accordance with the market economy. The second point: Fire brigades. Of course, we take the view that we must also give the fire brigades the appropriate finances – that is not at all a question, that is also necessary. If I look at the request of the Social Democrats, I have to say: They reject the tax increase. – We reject them too, but we even take one step further: In this year's tax relief package – the largest tax relief package that has been made in this Republic up to now – we have led to relief above all. So this is a bigger work than so many others. As mayor and representative of a community, I have quite my problems when we talk about fiscal changes, because I always have the problem in my neck, that if we have municipalities or representatives of the municipalities to ensure that some tax is lifted, then the countries and also the federal government are constantly looking for ways to recover these amounts. I am of the opinion of Mr Kogler, who, on the occasion of a previous speech here in plenary, once said that we need to see the value. If something is important to us, then we give a certain amount of money. Finally, this has worked accordingly in recent years. Fire brigades are fulfilling an educational mission, fire brigades are fulfilling a educational mission, and I am convinced that we will continue to provide the necessary financial resources to fire brigades in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11766	Mr Magistrate. Long-lived amendment tabled by Dr. Stummvoll and Bucher is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Desirable time: 3 minutes. On the basis of this 'cooperation', I should like to ask again, Mr Kogler, not to turn my back on the speaker. Mr Gaßner, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11791	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say something about the fact that fire brigades are supposed to waste money and that there are too many: Whenever they are called when they are needed, they can't be there fast enough, they can't be enough teams and can't be well equipped. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I don't put the fire brigades in the way that they're stupidly throwing out money. – This will also be checked very closely. Whenever we need a lot of hands, we're glad we've got them. I would like to say that quite clearly and clearly. I would like to ask colleagues from the government parties to become concrete at last. What do we have about these Sunday promises that we should finally make sure that the funding is secured?- Oh, my God! We have tabled a concrete proposal which contains exactly what the fire brigades should get, precisely from the reimbursement of VAT. Whether that is possible or not, it must be checked, and ways must be found. There are approaches to the Red Cross, how this can be done. It cannot, however, be that one constantly shortens these resources. Ladies and gentlemen! This one million, which is included in your application, is just a substitute for the tax reform to lower the funds of the disaster fund. That's why we need the € 1 million to get us back to the same level. And from 2002 to 2003, these funds fell by 15 percent, Minister of Finance! You told us there were no applications, but I don't think you did. That's probably due to any delay tactics. I would also like to make the following comment: It also helps communities if fire brigades receive additional resources, because the communities are increasingly burdened with the equipment of firearms and aid organizations. Mr Finanzminister – and with that I conclude – you have announced through “great” forecasts that we, the municipalities, will receive more income. Yesterday, the Upper Austrian communities and mayors have received an issue on the table, a letter from the Department of Municipalities, in which we are informed that we are already 1.5 percent below the income proportions that you have forecast us. And your ministry's forecasts for the next year, i.e. for 2005, are based on 2004: 2.2 percent less income! Mr Finanzminister! When do you actually take care of the finances of the communities? – If the congregations are totally “empty, ” they have no sense anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11851	Mr Bucher is now speaking. 4 minutes speaking time. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11869	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say a few words on the agenda item 20 as regards the SPÖ's request for the reimbursement of VAT on firearms and charities. I think it is generally right that the Austrian fire brigades make an invaluable contribution. I think we agree on this. The problem with the reimbursement of VAT is certainly the EU's conformity. ==References== VAT Directive will most likely lead to a difficult situation. The second is the demarcation of welfare companies – where do they start, where do they stop? I also see a big problem coming up to us, although we naturally have a lot of sympathy for the approach they place. However, I believe that the Austrian fire brigades are not really efficiently structured. I do not want to join the opinion of Mr Kogler a hundred percent, but there is a structural deficit in the fire brigades, I think. I only take my community, the municipality of Friesach: We have 3 000 inhabitants and three completely equipped fire brigades, which, I believe, is an oversupply. The task of fire brigades is changing, as we know. The use of highways and motorways is increasingly to be handled. And there is the interesting aspect, for example, that communities do not pay back, i.e. that invoices of firearms that carry out their activities in the event of car accidents are not passed on by the municipality to the insurance companies. There are concrete cases in Carinthia that have been shown. I believe that this should be corrected first and foremost as regards the recovery of funds. As far as our motion for a resolution in the Committee is concerned, I believe that one thing is contradicted: that the firearms in Austria will receive fewer resources in the future. You will receive more money through the fire tax, even in this year – 55 million. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Is not true!]] Now there is another € 1 million. I think that the Austrian fire brigades are certainly not worse.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11909	The next speaker is Mr Glaser. 3 minutes speaking time. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11927	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to comment on the increase in the minimum amount of insurance in the field of liability and fire brigade, and on the liability amounts quite simply state that, as I believe, it is a useful adjustment of the amounts to the development of damage and that this is simply for the protection of both the insured and the potential victims. According to the insurance industry – including the former Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer said that – it is about ten to 20 cases a year that are affected. So it is quite clear that there are enough people who are harming twice: once because of the damage and the other time because the damage has not been covered. We have also heard such serious accidents, such as Tauern accident or Kaprun accident, in tunnels or in the housing of motorways, showing one of the potential problems of the insurance industry, but at the same time also one of the problems the fire brigades have, because particularly in these areas fire brigades are very, very difficult. Mr Kogler, I would like to say: This is not just about the efficient use of public funds. You know just as well as I do that it is probably much higher about the use of private funds that the firearms themselves impose. It is also about a lot of personal commitment and a lot of personal risk that is brought in here or what you have to pay from our side, I think. On the SPÖ's motion for a resolution, I would like to point out that it is already quite incomprehensible if you agree to a motion for a resolution from the SPÖ on the Committee, according to which you intend to review how the financial situation of the fire brigades could be better, but now, although you have agreed to our request in the Committee, you are introducing another motion for a resolution, which you are going back to your original motion for a resolution, namely that you should continue to try to enable VAT to be refunded, knowing from your side that the EU is simply not going through. [[Abg. Heinzl: That's not true at all!]] However, we do not want to seek opportunities to provide the means necessary for the fire brigades. That is why we cannot join your motion for a resolution. We think that we have done everything and do everything we can to ensure the financing of fire brigades that we believe are absolutely important and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11967	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. 2 minutes speaking time. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e11985	Mr President. Federal Minister! The approximately 325,000 firemen and firemen of Austria risk their health, their lives day after day. You must be ready at any time to save, to store, to help. And it is simply our duty not only to support the fire brigades in Sunday's speeches, but also to help and support them financially as well as financially. That is why I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12037	The motion for a resolution by Mr Heinzl has just been tabled by the honourable Member. Gässner, Heinzl, Marizzi, ladies and gentlemen, on the refund of VAT on firearms and charities in the purchase of new equipment, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation and then voting. The next speaker is Mr Dr Liechtenstein. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12058	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I can say something about point 17 – the federal law on the sale of unmovable federal assets – in short. With regard to the airport Styria – i.e. Graz-Thalerhof – the transfer of the federal shares of 50 percent at Graz airport to the state of Styria was decided and carried out in July 2001. Furthermore, the following transfer was agreed by the properties in the size of approximately 280 hectares. – This is happening now. The current draft law implements this transfer. It is planned to sell essential land parts in this area, which are also useful. Advantage of the federal government: He receives revenue from the sale proceeds. The sale of these non-usable properties for the federal government will also have a good impact on the economic situation in the region of Graz-South. Furthermore, difficulties can be more easily corrected, so that a number of ambiguities are finally clarified in the basic book. The western and eastern south of Graz is developing economically strongly, so that this step – this federal law – is also very welcome. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12091	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12110	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Kogler said that there was a little bit of populism in the discussion about the fire brigades. – I think that’s not populism, but that’s motivation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the fire brigades were professional fire brigades, that would cost the budget much more than this one million € that it actually is about now. We all know very well that the financing of fire brigades to a third carries the land, to a third the municipality, and most often to a third the fire brigade itself. [[Abg. Bucher: That's where Mr. Ambrozy is responsible!]] – They carry the money together from their feasts. Mr Bucher, you know that very well! Perhaps the structures are not always quite right, but the countries have the responsibility and should actually ensure that the fire brigades get a proper structure and fit the equipment. I believe that comparability with the other blue light organisations must be given. This is not a question of some kind of populism, but rather of making equality between the other blue light organizations and the voluntary fire brigades. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heinzl has tabled this request, and he is important to us. We know very well that the fire brigades also need more money through the structural changes in the fire brigade, and we will not let go of it: We will make this request until there is consensus – and it should actually exist! – that the volunteer fire brigades get more money than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12155	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12174	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to continue where my colleague Peter Marizzigen has ended. Mr Bucher, I think that the Land Fire Departments have already made great progress in evaluating their stocks in the meantime and that what you have addressed and what may have happened there or there in the past – that there have been similar devices at very small spatial distances – is no longer the case today. However, we are all regularly invited to District Fire Department Days, initiations and commissions of tankers, armored vehicles and others. If I see that the country's grant from the Land Firearm Tax is €50 000, this €50,000 for the new tanker will be eaten up by VAT, then I ask myself: What do we take out of the right pocket and then put into the left and load the fire brigades and above all the municipalities? Since, Mr Federal Minister, you are asked not only to distribute alms to the firearms, because we need them and they need money to be there for us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Please allow me a few more sentences on the item on the agenda referred to by Mr Liechtenstein 17. The importance of Thalerhof Airport for the economy in Graz or the surrounding Graz airport has already been addressed: She's immense. Thank God Thalerhof Airport has taken a very positive development and thus a positive development for the economy. I am very glad that we can adopt this law today and thus actually conclude what was started three years ago. I just hope that the fundamental works – entries and other steps – will not take another three years and wish Graz-Thalerhof Airport to continue on this successful path.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12223	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12241	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all: I am very glad that the increase in minimum rates in liability insurance will be a reality. It is a very strong increase, which will again last a few years, so-called major damage, as suggested by Mr Böhmdorfer. It has been possible to cover so that major personal tragedies can be avoided in individual cases. Secondly, as regards fire brigades: I said here six or seven years ago that it could not be that there are, so to speak, two fire brigades in each village tomb – or a gender army post and the like – because, unlike the situation 50 years ago, mobility has simply increased considerably. I only know the following: In Upper Austria, fire brigades have received a very professional organisational structure in this period – in recent years. There are priority fire brigades in which really is invested very well, which act very professionally and which are also financially as well equipped as possible. However, I believe it is appropriate to provide support here – not only for fire brigades, but also for other aid and welfare organisations – because we all have to make these funding ourselves. Therefore, it might not be so bad to reduce the volume by the rate of VAT that has to be spent so that the carousel turns. In this sense, we support this proposal and hope that this year will be a major political solution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12287	The final provisional word is as follows: Mrs Mag. Trunk. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12305	Mr President. Minister! To point 17: A very clear yes to this measure of the transfer of the federal shares to Graz airport operating company – therefore, because it is useful and efficient. This clear yes, however, is the clear no of the SPÖ Group facing other questions, such as the sale of the federal apartments and their sale at dumping prices. Minister! This is a classic example of how much and how clearly the SPÖ differentiates and that it does not operate fundamental opposition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, to the fire brigades: It's always talking about money for the fire brigades here. – Beneficiaries to the women and men of the volunteer fire brigade. But this is not money for individuals who believe that they have to be volunteering, but necessary money, investing in all our security! Mr Bucher, for a moment: Three volunteer fire brigades in Friesach – three volunteer units – are too many. I claim they are too few if someone – you or I – has an accident when it burns and if we need help. I think there can never be too much voluntaryness. That is why this is an argument that I cannot accept in the form. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Last point: Mr Minister, on VAT refund – Agenda item 20 – you have repeatedly stated that it is not EU-compliant. Mr Matznetter has explained in detail to you that this is no contradiction. I ask you: Why do you say in the Committee that you still have more than enough money – for example, Carinthia would have asked for nothing in 2003 – and answer, if these arguments come to the public, very contradictory and say that nothing has actually happened? Mr Minister, I would like to ask you to clarify: What resources are available in the current budget for fire brigades in Austria? How much can they apply for and will you accept these applications? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12377	In the word, no one has been reported for this. A final word on the part of the reporting is not wanted either. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we reach the vote on the draft federal law on the sale of unmovable federal assets, together with the title and receipt in 545 of the supplements. Whoever stands up for this bill, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft in third reading, I ask for a sign. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the current State Treaty – Agreement with the United Mexican States to avoid double taxation and to prevent the tax evasion in the field of income and wealth taxes, together with the protocol in 553 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. Now we come to the vote on the draft federal law with which the Motor Vehicle Liability Insurance Act, the Railway and Motor Vehicle Liability Act and other laws are amended, together with the title and receipt in 556 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for an amendment on Article 2(9) and Article 5(1). In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 556 of the Supplements, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is also in favour of this bill at third reading, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 591 of the Supplements. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – The consent shall be given unanimously. (E 62.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Gässner, ladies and gentlemen, on the refund of VAT on firearms and charities in the event of the acquisition of new equipment. Those who support this motion for a resolution by Mr Gaßner, I would ask for a sign. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: The Gusenbauer and the Cap are not there either!]] [[Abg. Gaál: You can still vote!]] – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. 21. Point report of the Committee on Finance on amendment 416/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, colleagues in a federal law that amends the mortgage bank law, the Pfandbrief Act and the Bausparkassengesetz (592 d.b.) 22. Point report of the Committee on Finance on amendment 417/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, colleagues on a federal law amending the Accounting Agency Act (593 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12465	We now come to points 21 and 22 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate spoke and opened the debate. Ikrath. 4 minutes speaking time. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12490	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! With today's new law, we enter into a promise, a declaration of intent, which we made in the Financial Committee on 16 November. In the event of the adoption of the Pfandbriefsetz, it was unanimously adopted on 1 March. With this federal law, we allow mortgage banks to be able to carry out future collateral transactions for the purpose of minimising the currency and interest rate risk for the assets in the cover stock. In a train, we are now opening up this possibility in a consistent and correct manner also the building savings banks for the construction savings business and its investments to cover the interest rate risk. That we are doing this and that this is being decided together today is a good thing. It serves the safety of the plants, effective risk management in the company and therefore, of course, especially the customers of these institutes and the business location Austria. Ladies and gentlemen. Not least, it also serves us, our credibility, according to the motto: promised, held! ==References== ==References====External links== He was held in plenary on July. Since politicians do not have an inexhaustible bonus of credibility in the voters anyway, we can only do this well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, today's novelle is only a first step on the way to a much needed comprehensive revision of the current mortgage bank and deposit note law. The aim of this comprehensive reorganisation must be to include in Austrian legislation the many innovations that Pfandbriefrecht has received in recent years in the European context, in particular in order to ensure the first-class emission rating of Pfandbrief in Austria. In particular, there is a need for a much improved position of the creditor in the bankruptcy proceedings, for example by continuing the cover mass. This redesign is so urgent, because for mortgage banks from 1st century onwards. On April 1, 2007, the state's liability is known to be eliminated and they are then required to refinance themselves more strongly through pledges. It is necessary for us to create the conditions that these can be rated first-class. In this context, I am looking at you, Minister of State Grasser – and would have looked at Mr Böhmdorfer three weeks ago – now, too, because I also expect him to support and grant my hope, but also expect you to ensure that in the autumn of the first financial committee meeting we will be confronted with the presentation of such a major novel to the mortgage banking law. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can do that now!]] Twelve months of preparatory work should be enough for it. We have now only needed three months for our novels in parliamentary terms. Take this as a model! I think we owe this to mortgage banks and thus to the economic location Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12535	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12554	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) ==References== In March of this year, the law on the accounting agency was passed by you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ. The Agency was granted collective contractual capacity, the managing director was assigned to submit the collective contract as soon as possible. Today, three months later, this law, which was passed by you in March, must already be repaired, because at the time it was not decided which service conditions of this collective contract should apply to and until when the managing director has the task to submit the collective contract. Estimated Minister! As we have already talked about administrative reform and administrative simplification, I would like to say: This is not administrative simplification, it is administrative increase! This speed you show in your reforms proves again and again, we need to repair retroactive laws. This does not make a good picture of the work of the Federal Government at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12590	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12610	Mr President. Federal Minister! I just want to say a few sentences about the mortgage bank law. We made a major change in the liability of mortgage banks in March by removing the liability of the countries. This made it necessary for mortgage banks to be able to use new and modern security instruments that are important and right in the interests of investors, as my previous speakers have already said. We liberals are fully committed to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12638	Next word: Mr Mag. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12656	Mr President. On item 21 the necessary things have already been said. The debate is essentially followed by a committee statement. I would like to say on point 22 that although we are only correcting a little as far as the accounting agency is concerned, I cannot spare you that. This is, of course, an expression of the fact that the accounting agency, too, had obviously been relatively sluggish about what was affected by the law. A few things were turned on at the time. We also had a content dispute, but this is another example of where we have to go after with rehabilitation decisions in a relatively short distance. This happens more and more rarely, but it still happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12683	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes speaking time, he seems to be the last speaker here. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12702	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What Mr Kogler meant, I must say that I would have expected him to speak for the accounting agency, because this merger of the services in Vienna was an essential contribution towards administrative reform. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You say that!]] Whether or not there has been an addition to the first bill or not, one has just repaired it. The main issue is that an important step has been taken towards administrative reform. I would like to point out to the current bill that everything has been said in itself that a promise has been made. I think we should realize that a next step is due towards insolvency law. My appeal goes in the direction that we are in the near future making a revision of the insolvency law. Then the big throw was successful, then we went in the right direction as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12736	In the word, no one has been reported here. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we reach the vote on the draft federal law amending the Mortgage Bank Act, the Pfandbrief Act and the Bausparkassen Act, together with the title and receipt in 592 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to these laws, I ask him for a sign. – The consent shall be given unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading to give an indication of this. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. Finally, we reach the vote on a draft federal law amending the Accounting Agency Act, including the title and receipt in 593 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. 23. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Christoph Matznetter, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on gambling (GSpG) (424/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12804	We arrive at the 23rd. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Wittmann. No time limits have been made. Still speaking time of your group: 57 minutes, 20 minutes legal speaking time. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12834	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This request therefore seems to us most urgent, because it has been made by representatives of the Federal Sport Organisation since 20. January has not succeeded in getting an appointment from the Federal Chancellor to talk about sport promotion in general. There were dates agreed, which were then cancelled again under dubious excuses. It is not possible for those responsible for sports to come into contact with the Federal Chancellor. The law governing special federal sports promotion runs at 31. ==References== It would therefore be time to talk about a new system of sport promotion – especially knowing that if one does not allow political ideas in the draft official's draft, then it will be too late in autumn and the Federal Government obviously only tries to achieve a hemp tactics in order to ultimately increase the promotion of sports. We believe that any schilling that is invested in sports – this is also demonstrated by Professor Weiss' scientific study – that every euro that flows into sports replaces 3 € in the health field. It means any investment in sport benefits health care and would mean savings in this area. It is a pity that negotiations with the responsible sports minister will not be possible. We all know that time is going to be very short to find the appropriate precipitation in budget creation. I am afraid that this date will be delayed for the reason that no increase in the means of sport is taking place. But we're still forced to do it until 31. In December 2005, the law was passed because the old law expired. That's why my appeal is: Please agree to ensure that the increase in sports promotions is ensured so that sport is promoted to the extent that it ultimately benefits health care!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12885	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. 20 minutes speaking time, remaining speaking time of the Group: 50 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12904	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter's request to increase this support for sport is certainly an issue on which we must and must deal in the committee responsible. I would already like to say that it was the liberals who are very much valued for sport. We have our own sports state secretary, who is very likely to try to ensure that sports get a high priority through the various actions and activities. [[Abg. Oils: What's his name?]] In this sense, we will continue to pursue the consistent policy of good sport promotion by the liberals. This request will be dealt with in detail in the committee responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12952	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. 20 minutes speaking time, remaining speaking time of the Group: 52 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e12970	Mr President. Federal Minister! I believe that this proposal must be differentiated. In principle, it will be necessary in the field of sport promotion to consider increases as well. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposal in the present wording would mean that the so-called Special sports promotion, namely that part which comes from the Lotto-Toto-Falls, would be increased with a clear commitment to the purpose, as it has already been, namely shares for the umbrella associations, shares for the ÖFB and the Austrian Olympic Committee and a clear fixation of how these additional funds are distributed. If you take more money into your hands for the promotion of sports – what we support! – then, in our opinion, the design possibilities should be increased accordingly. The money is de facto 1 : 1 out of the budget. But such a "bricking" is missing somewhere else – because it is not the case that these means come from the lotteries, but are already included in the budget de facto. So we're saying, Yes, to increase the promotion of sports, namely specifically, in areas where we are currently having real problems – I am thinking, for example, of school sports with all the things available there, partly also on the area of infrastructure. In any case, we want to do this in a targeted way. In our opinion, simply increasing all the contributions across the board is not a target. If you continue this discussion, we will try to make clear in a model that sport promotion can be carried out in a targeted way.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13008	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Grasser reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13027	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to comment on some of the points raised in connection with this request: The Federal Ministry of Finance has considered this application. What would be his financial consequence? – As a result of this request, the budgetary additional burden on the federal government towards the current sport promotion amounted to €32 million. That would be an increase of 85 percent! In view of the lack of a statement of the financial impact or a proposal for cover, I do not think it is a particularly serious proposal and refer to what Mr Brosz has just said in terms of a differentiated design – if we already make more money available for sport. I think all of us are very, very important sports. We all know about the very important social function of sport. However, since the Federal Chancellor has also been attacked here, I would like to point out that both the Federal Chancellor and State Secretary Karl Schweitzer, of course, also have debates with the representatives of the Ministry of Finance in the relevant budgetary negotiations. These debates will take place again in August, and we will start with the budget negotiations. This, I think, is also the appropriate time to debate these amounts in detail. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13057	Preliminary word reference: Mrs Schasching. Speech time: 20 minutes, remaining speaking time of the Group: 55 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13075	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Without long-term planning, there is no success. We know this, and we have to take note of it, especially when it comes to sport promotion. It cannot be – and this is how the situation is at the moment – that Austrian sport, which is the whole organized club of Austria, has a funding base that ends at the end of 2004 – and today does not know whether there will be more money, less money, no money or any other means of planning next year. That's not an intolerable situation! And this has assured me almost everyone responsible in the world of sports, down from the highest representatives. I would like to point out that we have just been able to pursue a European football championship and that the plans for the 2008 Euro are already under way in Austria. There's already work going on. I would like to draw attention to this: In August, we will all watch the Olympic Games. Every participant there – in the run-up and environment of every association that prepares for it – needs to achieve success, planning security, that is, logical financing security. That is why this request is being made. Therefore, it is also for the future that we should be able to make a joint request – in the course of the discussion about today – so that we can achieve a long-term assurance of these funds, because it cannot be possible for the government members to move from the big sports event to the big sports event to shake hands there to press thumbs in the media, but then, in the moment when one adopts the big sports event, the athletes also forget about it again. Our thousands of volunteers have not deserved this, our athletes have not deserved it! In this sense, I hope for a consensusal solution for the future and I would like to ask you very much to look closely at our request. It is about securing sports together in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13115	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with the proposal 424/A to the Financial Committee. The agenda is now exhausted. Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13147	We come to the vote on the request by Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr. Bleckmann, colleagues, to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 430/A by Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr. Bleckmann, colleagues on a federal law amending the Private Radio Act and other laws. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for a deadline to be approved. – The request will be accepted by the majority. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-07-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00071_d7e13177	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 431/A to 434/A have been tabled at today's meeting. In addition, requests for 1960/J to 1992/J have been received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations is scheduled for 16.38 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
