ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3486	I'll open the 43. Meeting of the National Council on the basis of a sufficiently supported request pursuant to § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure has been called up, and may all of you welcome in the new year very warmly. The official protocols of the 40. 3rd meeting of 3rd meeting ==References====External links== Meeting of 4. December 2003... [[Unrest in the hall; many Members welcome each other.]] [[President Dr. Khol interrupts the reading of the Croquis.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is the good-bye!]] – If I don't hear myself anymore, I have to wait a little. The protocols which I have just mentioned have remained in the Parliamentary Directorate and have remained unanswered. As prevented, MEPs are reported Marek, Mag. Long rider, Rossmann, Dr. Puswald and Bayr. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3531	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The text of the Communication is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3699	Members Dr. Gusenbauer, colleagues and colleagues have asked for urgent consideration of the written question made at the beginning of the meeting in question 1293/J by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour on the responsibility of the Federal Government for record unemployment in Austria. The urgent request will be carried out at least three hours after its submission at 3 p.m. I am now interrupting the sitting until 3 p.m. After re-negotiation of the negotiations, the urgent debate on the written request will take place. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3739	I will resume the interrupted sitting and ask the honourable Members to take their seats. Memories of the Victims of the Earthquake in Iran
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3763	Ladies and gentlemen! We see ourselves today for the first time since the day when a terrible earthquake in Iran has laid a city with 100,000 inhabitants in Schutt and Ash. Over 30,000 people became victims of this earthquake, tens of thousands of children became homeless – a country was severely tested. I believe that we in the Austrian National Council should express our sympathy, our participation and our sympathy for the Iranian people. I would therefore ask you to stand up briefly from your seats and remember this victim. [[Those present briefly persist in silent remembrance.]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express our sympathy in the presence of the Iranian ambassador and say that we will continue to do what we can. Today I would also like to thank all those Austrian helpers from the German army, the rescue organizations of civil society, the many volunteers who have moved to Iran for Austria, who have helped quickly and efficiently. We were among the greatest helpers in this country. These organisations, or the local people, said: Austria was represented by her tent camp – we thank them for their work! [[General condolences.]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour on the responsibility of the Federal Government for record unemployment in Austria (1293/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3812	We now proceed to the urgent debate on the written question 1293/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading through the writing process. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4033	Before I give the floor to the applicant, I am aware that the following Rules of Procedure have been adopted in the Presidential Conference for the period from 15 to 17 o'clock, which is being transmitted by Austrian Broadcasting: Applicants for the reasons of the urgent request 15 minutes, the member of the government in question also 15 minutes, then one speech per group of 8 minutes each; possibly another speech by the member of the government in question or another member of the government with 8 minutes speaking time. Speech time can also be divided between two members of the government by 4 minutes. In addition, one speech per group of 5 minutes each, then perhaps another word by a member of the government of 4 minutes, if the above speaking time is divided from 8 minutes to two members of the government, and finally one word per group of 5 minutes each. In any case, the speaking time should spread evenly to all four political groups, and I will watch over it. Actual corrections, statements on the Rules of Procedure – as we understood in the Presidential Conference – will only be called after 5 p.m. I now give the floor to Mr Gusenbauer as the first questioner on the grounds of the question. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4066	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this first National Council meeting in the new year, I wish all the people present good for the coming months, especially health and personal happiness. For many of our compatriots, the beginning of the year was not a good beginning of the year. For 331,483 people in our country, the new year has begun with the fact that they had no employment. That is about 80,000 more people than three years ago. Among them are 64 000 young people who have not found work. Unfortunately, we have achieved a sad record: It has never been the case in the entire history of our country since 1945 that at the beginning of the year so many people have been without work as this year. You can continue this list: There are still more than 4,400 young people looking for an apprenticeship, there are still 2 500 training places missing net for the over 15-year-olds. This is the preliminary highlight of a development, the preliminary negative peak of a development, ladies and gentlemen, and we Social Democrats believe that this development can no longer be seen on the labour market. Today, policy activities are more popular than ever. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Federal Government, which has to bear the responsibility for this development, has repeatedly pointed out that the poor economic situation would be crucial to this and that the situation on the labour market will also change with a better economic situation. The problem is now: The economic researchers predict that this year an invigorating economy will be forecast, but at the same time it is predicted that the situation on the labour market will continue to be bad, that the number of unemployed will, unfortunately, not lessen in 2004, but more. And that's where the question arises: What does the Federal Government do in view of this situation? For example, it could be assumed that more money from the labour market service will be invested to organise job programmes for people. – The exact opposite is the case! Those who see in today’s “Small Newspaper ” can read: ‘Less money for the job programmes.’ That is, although the number of unemployed continues to rise, the government is becoming less and less opposed. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong policy you are making in this context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Another possibility, of course, is to make a tax and economic policy that would bring additional recovery to the economy. Since you presented your ideas on tax reform last week, the question we are interested in today is, among other things: Does this tax reform contribute to more growth and more employment? [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Sure!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Of course!]] And if you look at this in detail, ladies and gentlemen, then you come to the following conclusions: 80 percent of all Austrian companies, namely small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the main players of the Austrian economy, do not have a single euro of this tax reform. [[Abg. Großruck: Wrong!]] That is, through the tax reform, money gets the wrong ones and not those who would invest in the economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Secondly, What could also bring about a recovery of the economy would be a strengthening of purchasing power, especially of the middle class and of those in Austria who deserve relatively little. If you look at the proposals of the Federal Government, you can see: The 2.1 million people in Austria, who earn the least, get nothing from this tax reform at all. That is, where this would have the greatest effect in purchasing power, the Federal Government does not allow people to have more money in the wallet, and that is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, in relation to the middle class. – The Chamber of Workers and the ÖGB have today presented calculations: How does the discharge of average income in Austria look like, that is, the typical medium-sized income? A person who earns €2,000 gross per month is relieved by this tax reform according to calculations of the workers' chamber per month by saying and writing €16.91. If the so-called largest tax reform of all time occurs in 16,91 € for the average income earners, then this is an extremely modest matter, Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially when you consider how much you feel about the burden on Austrian workers and pensioners in recent years and also in the year 2004 today. These 16,91 € are not even a partial compensation for the total loads of recent years, but at best a bill of cold progression. It would have been fair, Mr Minister of Finance and Members of the Federal Government, if you had done what you have promised for years, namely: that after years of sacrifice, the years of harvest are coming, and if you had given people back what they really deserve, and that is significantly more than that €16.91 a month, which will bring this reform to an average income earner, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This means that there is neither money for small and medium-sized enterprises nor 2.1 million people with lowest incomes are relieved, nor that there is a return of the burdens of recent years on middle incomes in our country. That is, ladies and gentlemen: Much of the Austrian economy and large parts of the Austrian population have nothing to do with it, and therefore it must not be surprising if this tax reform, which you have presented in recent days, will not have any impact on the labour market and on the economy in Austria. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: That's your opinion!]] In view of the more than 300,000 unemployed people in our country, this is really the wrong policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is even to be feared that the last ones who invest in the public sector in Austria, namely the municipalities, will also have fewer opportunities in the future. Austria already has a public investment rate at the lower end of the European scale, and now the municipalities will get €300 million less through this tax reform – €300 million, which goes off the communities they lack to invest. I ask you: Where does the investment come from, ladies and gentlemen? Who will see to it that the lack of investment by the municipalities does not result in more jobs being destroyed. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] If the Minister of Finance now says that we are against a tax reform, I say to him: Against this tax reform, which comes too late and does not bring anything to the Austrian population, you really have to be, because it goes in the wrong direction! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It also raises the question, especially since you are doing this tax reform without counter-financing – until today it has not been said what the counter-financing looks like –: [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's right!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you want that?]] Does this mean that the Federal Government will more than double the budget deficit next year? [[Abg. Big Truck: Double zero once!]] We note: That government, which has begun to make a zero deficit, doubles the budget deficit in 2005, although economic recovery is predicted. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you have left an essential basis for your government policy, an essential basis that has been said: Zero deficit. They double the budget deficit, make a tax reform on pump – a tax reform that neither the Austrian economy nor the employees in our country bring anything. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Two times zero is zero!]] Of course, there are alternatives to each single position. For example, if you were to introduce a single-earner child drop-off amount that costs €250 million a year, you could have created 60,000 childcare places that are urgently needed. Or you could have increased the family allowance by 137 € for each Austrian child. All of this would have been measures that would have been more just than what you are doing, because you are leaving a principle that has always been held high in Austria: Every child must be worth a lot to us! – Unfortunately, this is no longer the case after this tax reform, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also interesting that a party such as the FPÖ, which has always expressed its support for protecting particularly the hardworking and skilled in Austria, agrees to a tax reform, of which 2.1 million people, namely in the lower incomes, have nothing at all, of which 80 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises also have nothing, and that this tax reform allows tax progression to be at least 38 percent. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't believe that yourself!]] This means that every craftsman, every skilled worker who decides to make an overtime, work more or do more, will in future have to deliver at least 38 percent of every additional euro he deserves to the Minister of Finance. Therefore, what you want to tell us is that the border tax rates have been abolished, a pure cock. Progression is tightened for a large part of Austrian income providers and therefore, above all, the performance-ready parts of the Austrian economy are punished by this federal government. – This too is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen! They're supposed to motivate people and not depress them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A comment made us particularly supportive. The Federal Chancellor said that there was no counter-financing for this tax reform, that only the structural measures started in the railway sector, in which Health et Cetera was to be continued. – Well, ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean: The structural measures started are being continued!Unknown term type: "%s".? Does this mean that, for example, in the health field, when all the elections of the spring are over, once again the self-hold for the doctor's visit will be introduced – as a financial contribution to this tax reform, which will tear a large budget hole on the other hand? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You have always said that no new taxes will come, but you have not betrayed us: Will new restraints come, and new taxes will then again be imposed on the Austrian population, as in the past? We have the impression that the bitter end of this tax reform comes only after the 13. June. Only then will you know how to stop the budget holes in the future, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you already decide to make a tax reduction on pump, the question arises: Why didn't you do that in 2003, where there was a sharp economic recession? Why don't you make it effective for the year 2004, where there is still no movement on the labour market? No, you're not doing this until 2005. I would agree to all that you told us if you could compensate for this tax reform. But it is only quite right to finance deficits and to carry them out at a time when it will bring them significantly less for the economy than it had been able to bring two years ago, that seems to be a policy that does not look at what the Austrian labour market needs, which does not look at what the Austrian economy needs, but it should be the cheap distribution of extremely expensive electoral sugars. Ladies and gentlemen! If one summarizes this so-called largest tax reform of all time, then the following remains – I am at the last sentence, Mr President –: [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] The time is wrong, the discharge is insufficient, the economic effect is low, the tax justice is missing, the costs are too high! The biggest tax reform of all time appears to be tax murks.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4323	In response to the question, Mr. Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, Dr. Bartenstein, spoke. His speaking time should not exceed 15 minutes. – Mr Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4342	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My precious colleagues on the government bank! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs, I am in front of you. The written form of the urgent question, Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer, deals in particular with questions relating to the labour market. However, you yourself have devoted 10 percent of your request to this topic. Let me comment on the tax reform later on. I'll tell you one thing: It's not just the biggest tax reform Austria has ever seen – thank you, Karl-Heinz Grasser! – but it is also the great throw, not the Federal Government, but, ladies and gentlemen, which one of Europe’s most respected newspapers, namely “Frankfurter Allgemeine”, spoke of yesterday. [[Objection to the SPÖ]] [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] But now on the subject of labour market – the subject that Dr. Gusenbauer was so unworthy to reflect on. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me start by saying: The situation on the labour market is anything but gratifying. That is completely out of question. Our goal is full employment, but we are a bit away from it. [[Abg. Eder: Do something about it!]] The development of further rising unemployment is absolutely unacceptable. Every unemployed person is too much, especially when it comes to a young person, especially if it is an older person who has less or less chance of returning to the labour market. The reasons for this are clear: three years of growth weakness in the world, in Europe, in Austria. In 2004, it will go up again with about 2% growth. Although we stand excellent in international comparison, I believe that this increase of 3.3 percent in unemployment during 2003 is on average... – See, Dr. Gusenbauer, your comrades are talking about the labour market and unemployment, less about tax reform. [[Members of the SPÖ are detaching a transparency on which it says: “SPÖ – 330.000 unemployed – it is enough! – SPÖ’.]] That's interesting. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The “SPÖ” fits the poster!]] – In any case, we have this average unemployment of 240 000... [[Intercessions and cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If I were allowed to polemise as a member of the government, I would only read the second half, namely the right half of the whole. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] It is written here: “It’s enough! – SPÖ’. [[Cheerfulness and new condolences with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But the situation on the labour market is too serious to act here with such pamphlets. 240 000 unemployed in the annual average, ladies and gentlemen, an increase on, as I said, 4.4 percent, that is too much for me, that is too much for you. The Socialist Group is wrong in saying that this is the highest unemployment since 1945. No, in the same period of 1998 unemployment reached 4.5 percent. We, the Federal Government, the AMS and the social partners – you do not, Mr Eder! – do everything to limit this unemployment in order to slow down its rise in order to bring about a turnaround on the labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this way, it is no coincidence that the AMS social partnership led out of Germany is seen as an EU-wide example of an excellent active labour market policy. Read in the Hartz report of your friends in Germany, dear Dr. Gusenbauer! Nor is it correct that the funds for active labour market policies would be reduced. Altogether, € 1.4 billion is available to the AMS this year. And if I limit this to the more active labour market policy, it is also 18 million more than in 2003, when I take into account... – Faith [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer refers to a newspaper article that reads: “Less money for the job programs. ”]] Just me and not a small format from a federal country! – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! If I can invest these €18 million in addition, it is because the Minister of Finance was so generous and a redeployment of unemployment funds. It allows more funds to cover the average living spent in training for the unemployed so far than previously financed by unemployment benefit. This makes it possible for the AMS to be available more for active labour market policies than in the previous year under the heading this year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is due to the AMS' excellent labour market policy that the residence of unemployed people in unemployment, which is, of course, to be as short as possible, has now been reduced to 101 days within the last five years from 140 days. 90 days stand as our goal in the government programme. What does it look like in Germany?– There are 230 days, which a unemployed person spends on average in unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are dedicated to particular problem groups and are pleased to note that it has succeeded – at the basis of December numbers – to achieve a slight reduction in unemployment by 0.2 percent for older workers over 50 – while at the same time increasing the number of employees by 2.5 percent or by 12 200 employees over 50 per year. This is a successful active labour market policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As far as our problem, the target group of the younger unemployed, is concerned, I should like to point out that, in all measures in this area, whether the Youth Education Security Act in autumn 2002, it is the issue of active employment policy for the 19 to 24 year olds, consensus in this House, and at least we can record a 2% lower unemployment rate among young people under the age of 18 at the moment. A partial success, not enough yet. We still have to work on this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This consensus with the social partners and with social democracy on youth employment is important to me. I urge you to continue to work this out with us in consensus. In this way it will be possible for young people who are looking for an apprenticeship but have not found anyone to use a 6 300-place course network – in 2004 we will not spend less than €50 million – and for young people who have not managed to create an additional, second and third chance for qualification in the first run. Not less than €66 million will be spent in 2004 with your consent for the second and third chance of 6,000 young people. Let me also refer to the appointment of Egon Blum as a government representative. Overall, I tell you, we still need growth in the labour market for a sustainable improvement. With 1 percent growth, as we have had in recent years, it will not go. But the 2 percent we are forecast for 2004 should at least enable the labour market to stabilise. That is what the European Commission sees as it does. This is essentially the same view of our economic researchers. However, labour market policy can of course also be seen in the European comparison. They know Austria's excellent position: the third lowest level of unemployment in Europe as a whole, the second lowest level of youth unemployment. To what Dr. Matznetter has repeatedly criticized, for example, to increase unemployment: We had an increase of 0.1 percent in 2003, compared with 0.3% in the European Union, 0.7% in Germany – but not 4.4 or 4.5%, but 9.3 percent! – and the Dutch, a long example, last year also an increase of 1.0 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In my view, however, a number of rates on taxation and tax reform, particularly with regard to labour market relevance, are still in place.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4448	Federal Minister! There are nine specific questions to you, and you still have 9 minutes of speech. I would just like to point out to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4464	Thank you, Mr President. I am referring to these nine specific questions at once. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This largest tax reform of the Second Republic achieves three major objectives: on the one hand, a clear reduction in all incomes. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's not true at all!]] Secondly, more tax justice for families. Alone earnings, family and children's incomes, which means more justice for those who are single-earners, single-parents, single-parents, towards those who can tax two incomes. Thirdly, this tax reform is a very essential safeguard of Austria's location, because a corporate tax reduction is registered to 25 percent across Europe and the willingness to invest will not only increase Austrian, but also foreign companies in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Because Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer meant that 80 percent of the companies went out of business here, I have to say the opposite is the case. 100 percent of the companies are favoured, 100 percent of the companies favour Austria's location, because it is either capital companies, then they will pay 25 percent corporate tax in the future, or these companies are personal companies, then they will pay a maximum of 25 percent tax on the profits not collected – maximum, usually less. In this way, I can say that the economy as a whole is being relieved. [[Abg. Gradwelt: The answers to the questions!]] Mr President. Finally, I should like to point out that the investment-oriented economy, the leaders of the Voest, the Infinion, who move their automotive segment from Munich to Villach with the headquarters, also the automotive supplier Magna and his spokesman Rudas have expressed very, very positive views on this tax reform. Now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to answer the questions. On question 1: This year, the AMS has a record budget of €1.4 billion to support all the unemployed – by the way, not only after three months, as you put it in your question. On question 2: No, my position is unchanged, unemployed young people priority in the labour market in enterprise. And only in the event that the search efforts of the young person and the AMS do not lead to a result, do I stand by my commitment to provide these young people, as has already been said, with training places to the fullest extent. However, as in the autumn of each year, we want to determine the actual need. Question 3: Unemployment benefit grants a 55 percent net replacement rate and emergency aid is 92 percent of unemployment benefit. Dynamization is due to wage developments. [[Abg. Binder: Too late!]] Question 4: Yes. Question 5: ==References== In May 2004, the number of control bodies to combat illegal foreign employment in the Federal Ministry of Finance is increased from 93 to 186. On question 6: I'll put it right: With the first stage of the tax reform in the Budgetary Accompanying Act 03, taxes were exempt by increasing the general amount of the deposit and by amending the introduction of gross annual incomes up to approximately €14 500. This limit has now been raised to just under €15 800, so that additional 150,000 people have been released into tax freedom. A total of 2,550 000 persons are tax-free at the time of 2004. Question 7: I don't quite understand this question. At any rate, the economy is reduced by €1.1 billion and workers by €1.4 billion. Question 8: Profits not collected will be deducted to an amount of €400 million for individual companies, up to 25 percent for capital companies through the Köst reduction to an amount of € 975 million. And on Question 9: This is not applicable. The German Federal Government's infrastructure offensive provides up to 2010 expenditure of €32 billion, mainly for rail and road. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4564	We are now going into the debate. I would like to draw your attention once again to the Rules of Procedure which have been adopted by 5 p.m. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Speech time: 8 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4611	Federal Chancellor! Mr President. I mean, the watchman can make himself a picture of how seriously you take unemployment. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman, as well as by the abbot. Dr. Fischer.]] We believe that 331,000 unemployed are too many. It is therefore enough for us and we want to take action against it, and we want to see measures. We have called this special meeting here, too, because we believe that this government does nothing or too little in this area. And you know that it is not just 331,000 unemployed, but in a year 800 000 to 900 000 Austrians are once affected by unemployment. And that's too serious, please, that you're going into these numbers here with gal and laughter, as you did before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I therefore say to you that the people concerned and many experts have long ago suspected that unemployment is part of your economic policy. You'll buy it, you'll even accept it! I'd go almost so far that you say that's a part of maybe keeping the wages under control. For you, unemployment is not something to fight here. And it rises and rises and rises. Many experts have warned you and said: Finally, take action! And you have refused – up to the so-called tax bill you are now making here – to really take real measures to revive the economy and to further boost the economy as far as possible within the national framework. And you don't do that! Therefore: Tell the unemployed in Austria and the many others who have been unemployed once a year and because of your policy may still be: They are indifferent to the fate of those who are afraid of their job or have already lost it! And that's what we're condemning! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We have today put the urgent ones, among other things, to the Minister for Economic and Labour, because we wanted to know whether he is at all part of the government. No words in the last few weeks, Finance Minister has “worked” here, has developed his tax reform plans together with the Federal Chancellor and others and presented them to the public. And then the Minister of Finance turns to the public and says he guarantees highly personal that in Austria everyone will be relieved. [[Abg. Scheibner: Praise to the Minister of Finance is quite new!]] So if a money is taxed, then this is, of course, a discharge you're making here! [[Demonstratative condolences with representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals.]] You have to look at who the winners and who the losers are. The winners are the capital companies due to the corporate tax reduction, knowing that a drop from 34 to 25 percent is still not the truth, because the truth is: The effective tax rate has so far been 19 percent. And now they're gonna pay 12 to 17 percent. But then you only need to see what the “Economic Sheet ” writes today, because newspapers were just quoted. There it says: However, the small and medium-sized enterprises pay for it. – After all, 80 to 85 percent of Austrian companies, the famous SME, where the ÖVP always says it is the SME party. A embarrass, here, read it! Here you can read about the data and facts of this reförm, who really benefits and who pays for it. The tax advantage of the profits not collected is also a shame. Many have to do this so that they can survive at all. Others have nothing of it because of the limit of € 100 000, which is right in here. That's a shame! A shame is what you're doing here! On the same page is the “Economic Sheet”: Grasses are only half worth of SMEs. And then that goes on. A single execution of your economic policy and the so-called tax bill you made here. On the first day, the “standard” writes: Minimum earners are the losers of tax reform. The next day: Tax burden on besservers continues to rise despite reform – because there is, of course, the cold progression. Then the shooter of the little people in Carinthia can blow up. He's always said he's protecting the little people. – No, of course not! A rooster is the 20 million € for the commuters! It's a joke if you want to satisfy your conscience if you have one at all. And this is the criticism to be made here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is an increase in the cost of pocket money for women, with the increase in the rate of earnability. Of course, the best-earning solo holders get something. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] - Too much for you, still, yes, of course. And, in reality, the distribution policy has devastating consequences. It is a further step that is part of your policy: Women out of the labour market, back to the stove! That's what you want. Thus, Mr Finanzminister, tax policy is also ideology that you have made here, even social policy that you have made – against the medium-sized, against small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, against the least-earners. At least 40 percent, whose income is below €14 500, which are set here as a border, and which have nothing of this tax reform. She is actually against women – against women! – you want to get away from the labour market, so you want to realize your family image. This has nothing to do with economic policy! This will not stimulate economic growth, it will do nothing for growth, and it will do nothing for employment in particular. That's the real disaster of the steps you've taken here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I can only tell you one thing: Only now does all of this begin to give a system picture: reduce the social state in its services, close funding, make unemployment financially possible – that is the goal you have. In the future, however, you should tell the Austrians that unemployment is a normal part of the social reality, your ideology, your economic policy. That means you even want it to exist. Especially serious in this context is the fact that you have also taken steps here that have a devastating impact on SMEs and on small and medium-sized enterprises. I often visit, I am at events, and since I always inquire about the employment and the situation of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, of course also the big one – we want them to be in Austria too, we want the location to be secured here. As I said, I always find out, and it's always reported about the death of a business. The small and medium-sized enterprises are fighting for survival! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: In Vienna, yes!]] It's indifferent to you! It's cold. You're driving over here. Listen to what the Traficants say! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Mayor Häupl has discontinued the promotion!]] Listen to what the shooters say! Listen to what all these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs say, who also have a right to economics and not to be stressed by this government! – This is the truth behind it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do not forget the following: Many jobs are also linked to the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is unfortunate what you are presenting here, it shows your economic and social incompetence!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4747	Mr Magz (PPE). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Molterer's word. His speaking time is also 8 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4766	Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Mr President. Actually, only the final sentence of Josef Cap has been missing, which I am making with it. The final sentence may read as follows: Forward, comrades, we have to get back! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I have not heard anything else now, Mr Cap! I have heard little from you to nothing on the labour market. I would like to repeat this now because I consider this to be a really important issue in the interests of the workers and the unemployed in Austria. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The aim of this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, is, of course, full employment in Austria. This is our economic and labour market policy objective! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, in view of the unemployment situation in Austria, no one in this Republic has to move on to the agenda, but I would nevertheless like to correct the facts. [[Call the SPÖ:You are responsible for this!]] According to a European Union forecast, Austria will increase the employment situation to two of all European countries this year. We will be better on the employment situation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'd like to hold on: Austria has a record of employment, a record of people who have work – we must be proud of it, ladies and gentlemen! And Austria, of course, also has a record of self-employed people. I think that too is very interesting. This is the perspective where we also give answers: Opportunities for self-employed and self-employed employment in the labour market in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But, of course, as a fact in the labour market, Mr Gusenbauer, we have to maintain the same level of unemployment in some of the federal states of Austria, as well as rising unemployment rates. I'd like to explain that now. Mr Gusenbauer! In Vienna, 19 percent of the population are resident – right, 25 percent of the workforce. But do you know how much percentage of the unemployed? – 32 percent of all unemployed people are in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen! – SPÖ, it is enough!, I can only say here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder: That's total nonsense!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A federal state – and this must give us some thought – which is socially democratically ruling, contributes 72 percent to the unemployment rate increase! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] 72 percent of unemployment growth comes from Vienna alone! – SPÖ, it is enough!, I can only say! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Perhaps Mayor Häupl has seen the reason why he is now initiating a discussion in Vienna about any change in government. I hope it's enough for him too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] Then it will be better for Austria's unemployment situation, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But we're not watching, we're acting! The labour market service budget will reach a new record height this year. We invest in a programme “Job for young people”, with which we can create additional jobs for 6,000 young people. We have the Youth Training Act, where we provide the financial basis for 6 300 apprenticeships via the labour market service. We have prepared together the apprentices' representative, the internationally recognised expert Egon Blum, who together with us is preparing the right strategy for the apprenticeship offensive. At the beginning of this year, we have achieved an additional wage reduction of € 140 million for older workers, so that there is an opportunity for older workers to take part in the labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I hope that we will also quickly implement what the social partners have been able to achieve: the basic agreement on improving the rules on availability, so that we can also, in terms of the conditions, make those improvements that the AMS can work faster and properly for full employment. That is our goal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But, Mr Gusenbauer, everyone who deals with the labour market and understands something of it – that is not necessarily the same – will have to bear in mind that there can only be full employment in Austria if we have economic growth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's what we're hearing!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We need a growing economy, we need thriving businesses to have full employment. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Why doesn't she grow?]] Therefore, with the economic and growth packages that we have already decided on, this Federal Government has, by the way, an insignificant part against the voice of the SPÖ! – at least € 1 billion has already been taken up in order to accelerate growth and economic growth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We do this with the tax, with €3 billion. We relieve all entrepreneurs. 200 000 companies pay less taxes through the first stage of tax reform – non-profit – and another 100 000 companies through the second stage of tax reform. 300 000 companies, which hold between 80 and 90 percent of employment, are relieved. This respects the coming Director-General of the Voest, Eder, who says: We are investing in Austria among these opportunes, otherwise we would have thought about this! This is what Rudas – not quite unknown to you – obviously knows more about the economy in the meantime. We relieve workers, ladies and gentlemen – 350 000 people are discharged from the tax obligation, no longer pay taxes – and we have guaranteed the largest wage reform for the middle class, for the small incomes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We relieve the families. Especially the single earners and single owners need our special support because they are in a particularly difficult situation. We create a competitive environment, for example, with the abolition of baggage taxes, and of course we do not make any counter-financing. – You would have increased: the basic tax, the inheritance tax, the mineral oil tax, and, and, [[Abg. Eder: You have raised everything!]] That's your policy – not ours, we relieve net, actually, real. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This reform brings growth because you have addressed this, the economic researchers say, between 0.3 and 0.5 percent growth. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: She brings debt primarily! Debt brings it, nothing else!]] Yes, Mr Cap, we are not making socialist tax reform, but we are making a fair tax reform that relieves social justice. We do not make socialist reform, but we make a social and fair reform that brings something to families. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] We do not make socialist reform, but a reform for the economic and work location Austria. This is our policy and not yours! SPÖ, it's enough!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4992	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. 8 minutes speaking time. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5010	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap has accused us of lack of seriousness in this debate. Mr Cap, for us the question of job security and job creation is a very serious issue. But the polemics that you and others of your group have shown in the last few days do not show serious seriousness on this issue, even not badly made transparency. Seriousness is recognized by good arguments and sensible action. And this sensible action has shown the Austrian Federal Government – not you with your speech messages and with this urgent request that you have made! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap! How far have you gone from reality? Is it your serious, if you say that the tax reform has a “cash money for women ”? Do you mean the 6 000 € amount of earnings at the single-earner discount? 6 000 € “Cash Money for Women ”? Do you mean doubling the single-earner discount when you have two children? Is this the “cash money for women ”? – That already shows how far you have come with your argumentation. We are very pleased that you have called for this special meeting, even if you have spent a very long time on the subject you want to deal with today, because we also need to inform the public about how good and positive the growth packages and this biggest tax reform over the last decades are for Austria and for the Austrians and what positive effects they will have on the labour market, because job creation is a priority. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is true that the person concerned has nothing to do with international comparisons. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's right!]] That's right. But, ladies and gentlemen, you will probably also admit that there is an international economy and an international problem. Clearly, we cannot completely wipe out this economy, but it is about what measures we are taking to counter it. And that Austria is second in the European Union, second best in terms of labour market policy, shows that we have very well opposed this. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And if you say you have to do more in your own field, I ask you how you explain yourself: If all this is independent of trans-regional developments, how can it be that the SPÖ-led Vienna has fewer jobs and more unemployment and the Carinthian Carinthia led by Captain Jörg Haider has more jobs and less unemployment in recent years? You must also answer this question if you already believe that you can move so much regionally. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that not job projects, as you have said, and job programs create work, but an economy that can live and is competitive, and also a population that has purchasing power. And in this very direction, our projects, which you unfortunately reject again and again. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is speculated with a brief memory when Mr Vergestnich calls for investment instead of this tax reform. – Have you forgotten, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, that we have decided three economic recovery projects with billions of investments – we have now heard it again – unfortunately in broad areas against your votes! –: Investment in the railway, investment in the street, investment in research and development!Unknown term type: "%s".? They reject it and believe that the population is forgetting it. The SPÖ was against it – we have implemented it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The tax reform is said to be too late and too little. Yes Believe You really, we've forgotten what Her tax speaker Matznetter said on TV in July: We have a consensus that a major tax reform will only come and come in 2005. – No, Mr Matznetter, we preferred them with 1. A massive tax relief has entered into force in January 2004. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Where is she?]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: This is not a tax reform!]] We have decided an additional package of € 250 million for the families, for the single earners, for the commuters. Mr Matznetter, all of this has gone past you without any trace. Sage Therefore, you do not now think that 2005 is too late, where you yourself still thought that it is only then possible. - We preferred it. Look This is what you're looking at. – I know that you are nervous now because we have come to you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] You even shot the bird, Mr Matznetter – perhaps you can say something about it: Now, suddenly, you say that the discharge is less than the Federal Government has stated, because you should not take the discharge of 2004, which you did not want. That's already eaten, as it were, of course! Half a billion euros in redundancies are of course, but it is also a “cash money” for the Social Democrats. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is the largest discharge package with an amount of 3 billion. Your messages, Mr Matznetter, form at all a fund of nice messages to which you can respond well. You have said that there has been no major tax reform at all over the last 10 to 15 years. Thank you, Mr Matznetter, for this insight, because there was the Edlinger 2000 tax reform, which you decided before the elections, but we had to finance it. There was the tax reform Lacina in 1994 and the tax reform Lacina in 1989 – nothing for you. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That was a tax reform!]] This is also true, because our 2004/2005 tax reform has a greater volume than these three socialist tax reforms combined. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In addition, 350 000 Austrians will not pay any more taxes, ladies and gentlemen, discharges of several hundred euros. 876 € discharge for a single earner with two children – is that nothing for you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, so you are against it? We know the concept of you from the SPÖ: You have made a request for tax increase here instead of tax reduction. At that time we still believed that this would be a misunderstanding, but no, that's your philosophy. You want to raise the inheritance tax, you have clearly said that. You want to tax what people spend on their lives and then pass on to their children and grandchildren. You want to increase the basic tax, i.e. tax the small house builders. All the tenants, ladies and gentlemen, in the cooperative apartments, in the private homes you want to tax, more heavily. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They want counter-financing – we don't. We have saved God in recent years, we have rehabilitated the budget deficit you have left us. Now this largest wave of relief has been implemented for the Austrians without counter-financing. We are proud of this because it will create thousands of jobs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Just like the Köst reduction, ladies and gentlemen, it is important and necessary now that the Group headquarters decide whether to stay in Austria or to move abroad after EU enlargement. 1.4 million jobs are affected because they are included in the capital companies. 1.4 million jobs secured by this Köst reduction – that's when you say that's the wrong line! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know we surprised you with this tax reform. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Relax from this shock! Voices You can't be serious about giving back €3 billion to the Austrians and thus securing and creating hundreds of thousands of jobs – in the interests of a stable economy, in the interests of secure jobs in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5177	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Speech time: 8 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5206	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, also those who watch and listen! – Mr Scheibner, just to clarify a misunderstanding that I would not like to leave in the room: You have said that €6 000 will be given to women over the increase of the earnable limit. Is that nothing? - Those were your words. I'll tell you: This 6 000 € will not be given to women! This €6,000 must be hard work for women! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not a pocket money!]] Do you know in which jobs? – If I can work up to a limit of €6,000, that means that I can only do a slightly paid job per month, and the slightly paid jobs – we know them – are the hardest and the worst paid. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] There is no big deal here, Mr Scheibner, neither a cent nor a euro for these women. Nothing! No discharge! [[New condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] However, I would like to deal with your speech, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, because, at least for me, you have given the impression that you are concerned about unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: It was very good!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's right, too!]] I want to take this seriously first. They have listed measures that this Federal Government is putting in place. - Good. – I say – and you will not suspect me –: These measures are not enough! Mr. Molterer, I'd like to take up this competition. Let's also look at the numbers! They have presented numbers – I present numbers. We have it, unlike the SPÖ's urgent request itself, not to deal with 330 000 unemployed at the moment, but we have to do with almost 400 000 unemployed people who are also aware of the statistics. The 330 000 – and the Minister knows this too – are those who are unemployed and in training. There are only 40 000 people in September – and the figures rise from month to month – who receive a pension advance that is considered to be unemployed but who do not appear in the statistics, because if you receive a pension advance, a temporary benefit from the AMS, you are not registered. Not all of them are also registered – and these are not few, Mr. Molterer! – the emergency aid should be provided, which are usually women, but it is not only because the other partner has a somewhat too high income, and that does not have to be very high. These are also a few thousand people a year, and they are unemployed. Then, Mr. Molterer, we still have a not small group, especially among young people... – The numbers do you want? [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Where are the numbers you mentioned earlier?]] 39 000 received pension advance in September. You also know the numbers about the training participants, which are also almost 40 000. You know the numbers of those who should receive emergency aid, too. They may not know what was presented in December, for example, in the “Standard”, but also in other newspapers, which was published in the OECD study “Education at a Glance” about Austria and what was briefly summarized here under the title “Every Eighth Youths” in Austria“ hangs in the air. ” [[The speaker shows a newspaper section.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's not true at all! That's totally wrong!]] Don't say that doesn't agree at all! Try to disprove it, Mr Fassleven. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's totally wrong, this contingency!]] Now let me talk, you can talk. I would like to say another number: In December 2000, we had 27 000 unemployed young people in the age group from 19 to 24 years old, which is no longer young people. In December 2003, we had 43 000. That is, Mr Federal Minister and Mr Klubobmann, an increase of 16 000 people. I emphasize: 16 000 – this is an increase of over 60 percent for young people! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] I'm talking about those who are unemployed! Mr Molterer. You too must be measured that the figures clearly state something different than you claim, namely, activity of the Federal Government. I say: There's no activity! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It would be nice if you could make it so easy and you might say: We are now in second place in the European ranking! – Mr Molterer, that does not say anything about our own unemployment, but it says at most something about the fact that the others or others have become even worse than Austria! But what the numbers I've put forward prove, that's the following: We have a rapid rise in unemployment especially among young people and young adults. [[Call the ÖVP:In Vienna! In Vienna!]] – That’s why you should take care of yourself, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not claim – no matter who, whether ÖVP, Greens, FPÖ or SPÖ – that anyone in this area would have found the stone of the sages, but if you present these numbers and draw a line below, you have to say: Unfortunately, it is true that what honourable Member Cap said, but also what Minister for Economic Affairs, Bartenstein, repeatedly brings to the attention of his own statements, namely: The government is not particularly interested in unemployment. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: This is a white nonsense!]] I quote you from the monthly statements made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs on unemployment. In July 2001 it was said: Situation continues to be gratifying! In January 2002 it was said: The increase of 50,000 unemployed is an expression of a major day effect! In March 2002 it was said: An increase of 40 000 unemployed people, the increase in unemployment continues! In July 2003 it was said: Excellent place in the country comparison! Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, this does not help the unemployed in Austria at all! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you something else. Let's argue about the concepts! – There is no super concept, I give you the right, but where did you fulfill your promises? [[Abg. May. Mainoni: But you don't have anything at all!]] They said in 2000 that 10 000 additional jobs will be created in the health sector. I ask you: Where are they? Why Present Don't you like these 10,000 additional jobs in the health sector? Well, that's because you didn't create them! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Why do the Greens not actually present a concept?]] Where are the jobs in the field of childcare? Where are the jobs in the field of care, where we could have needed them and could have provided money for a different tax reform? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you have failed in recent years!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5424	Mr Gorbach has now spoken. His speaking time is 8 minutes. – Mr Vice-Chancellor, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5442	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I actually thought it would happen if we were going to face a red and white-red fight against rising unemployment in Austria, but that seems to be impossible, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, as your speeches have revealed here and your behaviour in the last few days. So it will be up to the government to carry out this fight alone, just as it has been our task in recent months and years to make repairs for 30 years of mispolicy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a friend of clear numbers. That is why I would like to say: Mr President, Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Klubobmann said that large parts of the population had nothing to do with this tax reform, but it should be said that he was only about 10 per cent of his speech devoted to unemployment and mainly to this great tax reform, as I mean. You seem to be very excited, Mr Klubobmann, if it is so important to you. It will also be important in the fight against unemployment. I would like to give you an example, a very simple one: We have around 300 000 companies in Austria, of which 100 000 are companies. 80 percent of these are smaller gesmbHs, i.e. the middle class which we clearly relieve. 200 000 pay income tax. These are deducted by the income tax reduction on the one hand and by the half tax rate on the non-extracted profits on the other. If you calculate this, you can easily see that under the rule, 90 percent of jobs are secured by this tax reform. I emphasize: 90 percent! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gusenbauer, there is something to be said to you: IHS and Wifo have found the following – not Hubert Gorbach or anyone –: A third to a half percent growth will be possible through this tax reform. - That's something! Such growth would envy us elsewhere, for example in Germany, where red-green also fights against unemployment, but under other conditions, namely: not 4.4 percent unemployment – EU value – but 9.3 percent or 4 million people are there who do not find work! Of course, 330 000 unemployed are too much, not a question! On the other hand, we have something to do together, against which we have everything to do! Do you know what the best way to combat unemployment is? – give the economy appropriate framework conditions, strengthen purchasing power, boost consumption, make sure that more money is in the river again, that more money is in the wallet again, and that the economy is happy again – and the economy is, of course, also the employee – to work in Austria. This is the best measure, and we create these conditions, among other things, with this tax reform. However, we have already created them with these three economic packages, and we have adopted growth packages. It is undisputed that this has ensured 14 000 to 18,000 jobs, only through the investment programme. Klubobmann Scheibner has already mentioned it: It has never been spent as much for the railway project, it has never been invested so much in the road, it has never been spent as much by a federal government for research and development as it is now in these years. – This is politics as it does and will continue to do this government in the future! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You also quoted the “Small Newspaper” today, and I remembered that I also read it after the introduction of our tax reform. I'm just quoting a few headlines from the Saturday edition of the “Small Newspaper” that say a lot: ‘Tax reform: Small earners as winners’; ‘Families – discharge already effective this year’; “Company – location assurance for the economy”; “income – only three more tax rates”. On Sunday another newspaper, also unwarranted, also referred to this tax reform. It's also just a few headlines to make sure you know what's really something: ‘This is how the tax reform affects: Even this year, there's more money for Alone earners with children and for the pendlers. From 2005 onwards, lower rates of wage tax will give each person a small relief." Or: “What leading economic experts think of the reform: For jobs, reduced corporate tax is important’; “Operates facilitate – cheers over the lower Köst”. Ladies and gentlemen! If, for example, we are now Europe's top in the field of corporate taxation with this tax reform and if we are at the forefront of the research and development measures, then job security is how you simply can't do it better! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's an unbearable nonsense, what you're trying to do!]] You or your predecessors and the Social Democratic Finance Ministers would have had 30 years to do what you present today as shiny ideas, namely, transfers for single earners, increase single parents, or increase the limits of trust, as we have done by 50 percent. You suddenly come out here with good ideas that you could have implemented earlier, and now you obviously can't bear it that this government has the courage to do what is necessary, yet you don't leave the stability course. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: To make debts!]] I would also like to conclude by saying: The stability course will not leave! Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, you are worried that through this tax reform we are doubling the budget deficit – which sounds funny when you say so – from 0.7 to about 1.5 percent: In order to achieve this deficit, one would just envy us under Red-Green in Germany! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But you should not measure yourself by the bad or bad governments, but by the best, and they are at home in Austria and not in Germany! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If I am already compared with Germany, I also quote the former Federal President Adenauer, who once said: No one has become healthy through the speech of the sick, for also in medicine action and prevention is valid. – This is how it is in Austria: This is the policy we are dealing with, and we are fighting against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5547	The speaking time of all other speakers is 5 minutes from now on. Next, Mr Deputies will come to the speaker's desk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5569	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you could also quote the “Minus” page from the Sunday newspaper. There is little for wage and income tax. – Expert opinion from Sunday in this newspaper. Or you could quote today’s newspaper “The Press”: ‘Tares and sluts in the reform’. So far to tax reform, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We have called for this special meeting because it is about raising awareness that this is about people, about young and old men and women, and not about the list of statistical data or the treatment of statistics. We should raise awareness of people's concerns! I do not know how you are, but I experience in my capacity as ÖGB President, but also as a Member of Parliament, that more and more people with letters are drawing attention to their problems by writing: We apply! We're looking for work! We're being fed down! We don't have a chance! - That's where it's supposed to be. I would like to make this image a little more conscious, and it fits with your own housing unit, Federal Minister Bartenstein, if I would like to take Graz and the surrounding area to this point: If we were to sum up all the unemployed in a city, all the inhabitants of Graz and the surrounding area would be without employment, without any chance of employment. That this may become a little more conscious, ladies and gentlemen. Or when we talk about youth unemployment: There would be all Villach without employment! - I want to make you aware of this. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: 70 percent of these live in Vienna!]] Mr Klubobmann, because you always quote Vienna: 200 000 non-Wieners work in Vienna. That was also stated in all clarity: Other countries close to Vienna are exporting their labour market problems to Vienna! – You should see that too, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I personally believe that we should all, regardless of the party and the ideology we belong to, try to give these people an answer. We need economic growth, which is not famous for those who are economically successful in reducing jobs, but for those who are famous for creating jobs – and that is where we are working, ladies and gentlemen! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] We need companies in whose leadership one does not constantly argue that people who want to work do not have the necessary qualifications and therefore one cannot employ them. It’s exciting to read last weekend and this week, when the “Economic Sheet” read, that especially those companies that want to reward you with the Köst reduction, do less for training, such as banks, insurance companies, industrial companies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] [[Abg. Scheibner:...! Your motions for resolutions contain this.]] . I think that is exactly where the approach would be to have a corresponding obligation to train young people. That is why, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] Because we're talking about internal demand: What about the strength of domestic demand? – It is true that trade, but also industry, is mainly strengthened by domestic demand. Do we strengthen internal demand? Since 2000, have we not been depleting purchasing power through many measures of this Federal Government? Just think of the new vignette that has been effective for a few days! It was increased by 100 percent in 2001! [[Abg. May. Molterer: The SPÖ was too little!]] – These are the things people feel in their wallet! Of course you can talk about discharge, but you should not forget that there have been enormous burdens in the years since 2000. [[Abg. Scheibner: The mineral oil tax you wanted...!]] Don't forget, tell me the same thing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: The truck toll was too little!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer:... is something other than...!]] [[Calls and calls between Mr Scheibner and Mr Gusenbauer.]] This Federal Government and the Austrian Parliament have committed themselves to pursuing the Lisbon Strategy and the Stockholm objectives. Why did we fall from more than 1.5 billion of the federal government's direct investment to just under half a billion? Why is private investment falling from 24 billion to below 21 billion? This is the strengthening of investment? - Here we have to sit! Mr Federal Minister, take your own report on the 2003 NAP! It says that there is an agreement in the ‘hackler rule’. – I don’t see this, because the agreement in the “hackler rule” means the continuation of your plan means that someone needs 45 years of contribution so that he falls under it. – This is not the goal when it comes to employment! On page 24 you speak of compatibility between work and family. In this context, I ask you: Why Make When it comes to tax reform, do you now separate the fact that families in which both partners have to go to work so that they can exist at all will not be measured in the same way as regards child support? On page 27 you talk about something you want to do, especially in integration. That's where I ask you: Why don't we use the Black Entrepreneurship Act? Last sentence, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen – or the last sentence if I am allowed –...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5735	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5750	In one context: If you talk about financial impact on page 28 of your report, I wonder why we do not raise negative taxes and why we do not relieve those who earn €1 900 to €200 gross a month more than that. Because you're talking about labour market funds: The board of directors of the AMS, Buchinger, noted last Sunday in the “Hohes Haus” show, the Austrian...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5771	Mr President of the Council! It's been 5 minutes and 50 seconds!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5787	Final sentence: ...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5808	No, the speaking time is over! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Ollinger for the Abg leaving the speaker's mouth. I don't know.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The disk was measured with a different measure!]] The next speaker is Mr Neugebauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5843	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gusenbauer referred to the main economic indicators in his explanatory statement of the urgent question. I already invite him to keep closer to the truth – for example, “in the range of the truth”. If, for example, I read in the explanatory statement: ‘... Austria has never been in the European comparison’ of the economic indicators ‘so bad there’, I can quote here a professor known to you, namely Hans-Werner Sinn from Munich. From the German point of view, he says: “In particular, we have to be irritated that the Austrians have now passed us, because we had long been accustomed to looking down on the neighbours in the south, who with their Austro-Socialism obviously did not do so. Now the Austrians have shaken their ideological ballast and look with pity at us from their high mountains” – the Germans – “down.” [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You say in your statement, “The government is now boasting with a tax reform,...”. – Professor Helmut Kramer – no unknown – says clearly: [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: How confused do you have to be to talk such nonsense? How confused do you have to be?]] This is a reform work and therefore a considerable political success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You, Mr Gusenbauer, say that this tax reform does not lead to growth. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: How is harmonisation?]] Mr Wagner says... – You jump to another topic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: How is harmonisation?]] This is obviously unpleasant to you! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Not at all!]] No, no, no, Helmut Kramer also says in terms of economic growth: 0.5 percent! – Mr Scheibner has converted this into jobs for you. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's not much! Half a percent is not much!]] It was important for us, ladies and gentlemen, in these negotiations to focus on the families, to take particular account of the single-earners, single-earners! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Silhavy:... but different opinion!]] Mr Cap, I do not want to get too close to you – I apologize if you feel so – but Your ideological rides in connection with family policy remind me of your discussions with Mr Kery's head of state about the Combat shooting. Since then, some decades have gone into the country, and your arguments have been very “grained” in the meantime. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You think that's funny, don't you?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The average tax rate is 1.2 billion €. We have 2.55 million people who don't pay taxes. If you consider the pendulum deposit as peanuts, I can tell you: 15 percent, that's 20 million €; maybe the conversion to Schilling will tell you a little more. As employees, we are also in favour of relief from our businesses, because we have nothing to do with the fact that we have no jobs, because only jobs and employees there can generate a corresponding value, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Scheibner.]] Mr Vergestnitsch has always chosen the saying: You have to feed the cows so they can be milked! [[Abg. How about the..., with the truth, colleague Neugebauer?]] – The two growth packages move a total of 3 billion, and if we focus not only on today’s debate, but on what we have done about consolidation and growth packages, with two tax packages, then we can say that we are moving a total of €4 billion, of which I hope they will also go massively into employment as very well invested money. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I conclude with a comment from the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” because you spoke of reförmchen or used other devastations. Yesterday it was in the “FAZ” under the title “Great Throw”: “ÖVP and FPÖ” “with their discharge plans, the greatest relief since the end of the war” – and that is clearly meant in 1945 – “do.” – I have nothing to add to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6022	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Speaking time: 5 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6056	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: “Treiswolf”!]] It was a bit worrying for me today when Mr. Dr. Cap was standing here at the speaker's desk and told all the serious things – and this can be read in the Minutes – that the Federal Government wants to break jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Yes!]] Mr. Dr. Cap, you are the second largest group in the House, and it will eventually become the third largest, you don't know, but one thing I really have to say to you: [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer]] It is more than worrying for a politician to make such an important topic such a polemic statement here! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] If Mr Vergestnitsch is out here today Villach – after all, the second largest city in Carinthia – said pro forma about the city of youth unemployment, then I really have to say: That is worrying, very worrying! Only: There's a red mayor. Look for the mistakes there – you will find you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Quite honest: We all actually went into the new year with a good mood in the Christmas break and full of expectation, and somehow we were expected to improve the attitude of the opposition, that it would cooperate constructively – but no! See: It's all the old man's life! While the government partners have worked on a tax reform, probably the green half of the empire, together with all its experts on tax reform, has eaten down their political frustration with Christmas biscuits, because otherwise it is impossible to imagine that you are standing here today and actually do a very great project – a great project with which really much has been achieved. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: (supplying from their seat) Do we look like this?]] The parties who sit here on the right have worked: first of all, Vice Chancellor Gorbach, first of all our President Prinzhorn – and first of all the head of the Carinthian state, Dr. Jörg Haider! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In record time, the biggest tax reform ever seen in the Second Republic was adopted! Thank you, FPÖ, thank you government! – SPÖ, it’s enough! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to these many numbers that have already been mentioned here today – many correct numbers from the FPÖ and from the ÖVP, many unfortunately wrong numbers from the Greens and from the Reds – let me say a few more facts, a few tags from daily newspapers that are not good at us: ‘Small newspaper’ means ‘tax reform’. Small earner as winner’. ‘Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung’: Tax reform brings clear reliefs to medium-sized enterprises. Alpenrepublic becomes an investment location number one in Europe – an important signal in the course of enlargement. ‘ÖVP and FPÖ’, ‘with their discharge plans, carry out the greatest discharge since the end of the war.’ Ladies and gentlemen! These newspapers should not be mistaken, I suppose, because otherwise these statements would not be so clear. [[Abg. Oillinger: Thank you at the grass! You forgot!]] And: These effects are noticeable, these effects are more than noticeable! During a time when red ruled, hundreds of thousands of jobs were destroyed in Austria – hundreds of thousands of jobs! –, we will achieve the creation of the future! We'll make sure we send signals. And any special sessions called by red raunzers are not suitable to make our work bad. Today's session proves that it is well represented by this, because the comparison makes us sure! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you keep this number in mind, you can certainly discuss the fact that there are too many unemployed people, and you can certainly also discuss the need for more – no after: We will rule in the next few years, and of course we will change more! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's to be feared!]] Thank you, Mr Gusenbauer. You give up yourself, that speaks for you. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer) Thank you!]] You really have to say: If the tax reform, the economic packages, the growth initiatives, ladies and gentlemen, then this is €4 billion! That's, in good old schilling, 55 billion schilling. Now you can discuss, polemize about whether here is a little too much, since a little too little was given, fact is: [[Abg. Oillingers: We are talking about unemployment today!]] 55 billion Schilling has brought this bourgeois ÖVP/FPÖ government among the people! – I think that shows that we are on a good path. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: Unemployment!]] Mr Oellinger, you're talking about the unemployed. The issue of unemployment is a very important issue. Let's compare the federal states – Mr. Klubobmann Molterer has already done it –: There is a federal state in the south, which is ruled by the only freeman in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the only federal country with declining unemployment – the only one! – On the other hand, a very unmistakable final light: Vienna, by which SPÖ governs – 12 percent more unemployed! 72 percent of the unemployed in Austria are in Vienna. The comparison makes us sure!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6261	Mrs Sburny is now coming to the speaker's desk. 5 minutes speaking time. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6282	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Only for clarification – because there are currently no actual corrections –: The unemployment rate in Carinthia is 9 percent, and thus Carinthia is the second final light to Vienna. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: 8,1!]] The only thing you can do better in Carinthia than in Vienna is to beautify the statistics. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Does this mean that the statistics are beautiful in Vienna?]] There is no reason to triumph. I would like to address what you always do at Vienna. I think that this is no reason at all to triumph if you stand out here and every time again triumphantly announce that the red state of Vienna is in such a bad situation with regard to unemployment. [[Call the ÖVP: Sorry!]] I can only draw your attention to the fact that the unemployment situation is still federal and that we are all jointly responsible for it, no matter what the federal state. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Not even the government and the government groups dispute that unemployment is rising. They are always trying to justify the fact that in the EU section it is not so bad that we are relatively good at it. This only benefits, as has already been said, the unemployed in Austria very little. You can only really put your heart at work to deal with how people are doing, who are unemployed, or who are already in worry about their jobs, because this does little to help us to be relatively good in the EU section. That is, if, as in Austria, there are rising unemployment rates, then it should be assumed that the government is taking measures to reduce this unemployment. You should accept that. [[Abg. Ellwall: Right! ...Economic package! ... tax reform!]] There is increasing unemployment despite your economic packages! That means anything can't be right there. I would just like to add one example to the figures you are juggling with, because Minister Gorbach has just brought this: You, Mr Minister, first claimed that the funds for active labour market policy were and have not been reduced. ==References====External links== The opposite is the fact that funds for active labour market promotion are reduced from € 691 million to € 645 million. – It’s just that I’m counting right at €46 million – and that’s probably nothing, not even for Minister Gorbach. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Select what But are you taking measures to balance your statistics half-way? – Their actions are by no means designed to create jobs. I would like to return to a subject that has already been discussed today, namely the tax reform and the question of who you are burdening with the reduction of corporate tax. The fact that this is only 20 percent of the large capital companies is now known. Only: What does this mean in relation to the labour market? Small and medium-sized enterprises have more than two thirds of jobs in Austria, creating almost 70 percent of jobs. This means that everything you do for small and medium-sized enterprises is very likely to be done for an active labour market policy. But what are you doing? – They do not support these small and medium-sized enterprises in any form at all! In the case of tax reduction – because “reform” cannot be said – which you are planning for 2005, these are not at all happening. [[Abg. Neudeck: Why? They pay too..., these farms! That's stupid!]] Now you say that the personal societies had already been relieved in 2004. [[Abg. Neudeck:... profits not taken...!]] Only – Mr Neudeck, listen once! –: In order for a profit not collected to be taxed, you must first have a profit! And do you know how many businesses of those affected have a profit? Do you know? – 47 percent of businesses have a profit and can benefit from this 2004 tax reform – 53 percent, on the other hand, not! They do not benefit from the current or the 2005 tax reform. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: A bad speech! No one knows each other!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Only the person who pays the tax before will benefit from a reduction!]] In other words, you have missed a great opportunity to move something political in the labour market. And the last thing I'm gonna talk to for a moment: How you get to your statistics that you can get half more numbers together, that's by pushing women out of the labour market. You've already managed with the childcare allowance that fewer women go into employment than before. A measure has already been adopted to ensure that women are driven away from the labour market. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Now is God thank you for the speaking time! Your clubmates don't know each other anymore!]] And you'll be able to push the women back with the single-earner discount rate. Of course, you can also improve the statistics!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6446	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP and the liberals and counter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – The speaker is speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6470	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Scheibner: So what about the koest now? For it or against it?]] It took two years for the alleged giant reform of a tax reform. – It is these five leaves that we have. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] On page 6 there is a table showing future discharge in 2005 as if it were €10 000 from next year by €586 and €12 000 by €607. The newspapers also printed this very well – with source BMF – for example, the “Kronen Zeitung” quoted by Mr. Vice-Chancellor. This writes: 47 € per month more at 1 300 € gross from 2005. It's just not the truth! Rather, the truth is: At today's paid wage tax rate 2004 there is just 110 € for those with 10 000 € basis of calculation per year. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now you come back with the shame! That must not be true!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You missed a tax relief! Add it, my colleague.]] And now what the vice - chancellor did not read from the “Kronen Zeitung”, namely, the right side: That's how experts judge. [[Abg. Scheibner: Add! Together!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Do you have the same place at Euroteam...?]] He has forgotten to say that even the 47 € that Mr. Shumi rightly calls a wage tax relief – this is what the “Kronen Zeitung” writes – are rather small. How little will it be estimated if he also takes into account the truth, namely that the basis of assessment at €10 000 is not even €10 per month, Mr Scheibner? – Government debt is rising. [[Abg. Scheibner: Add!]] This is also not what Mr Vice-Chancellor has told us. So, Mr Vice-Chancellor, take the negative part. The subject of Vienna has been dealt with very thoroughly by Mrs Sburny. Factim is, Vienna ensures that the surrounding federal states have fewer problems. That's what's going on there, too. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Vienna has the highest increase in unemployment!]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Walch.]] But we also want to correct some things that have otherwise been said about nonsense: Mr Scheibner, a small post-schooling about your own “Five-Blattl-Reform”. 364 € is the single-earner discount in the previous year, this year and also next year. He's not being doubled. They couldn't even read these five leaves, Mr. Klubobmann. Maybe you should do that first. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: With two children he is doubled! Listen up!]] We come to the main problem – and that is exactly what we are doing in terms of unemployment, which the Minister of Labour puts in percentage terms. [[Abg. Scheibner: Listen, then talk!]] The issue is that the number of unemployed is the highest. This is a shame to the land and a shame to the government! You should do something instead of polemizing here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are talking about your tax reform contributing to the reduction of unemployment, then listen to the statement on your own figures reported by Mr Vice-Chancellor: With a discharge volume of €2.5 billion per year, there is only 0.5 to 0.75 percent more growth. This is just as much as for the mini-conjunction packages of the last two years. If you had made our proposals two years ago, we would have 1 per cent more this year and would have to worry less about 30,000 people who are unemployed today. That would have been a good policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And now we come to the “great” tax gifts that have also been distributed.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6638	Deputies! You want to put in place a motion for a resolution which you have to explain in its core sentences. This motion for a resolution is six pages long. I would ask you to explain these key points in the one and a half minutes' speaking time you still have.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6653	Mr President. Give me the time of my speaking time that you have now interrupted me! I shall come briefly to the motion for a resolution if you wish to have preferred it: By April 2004 set out a concept for a truly comprehensive tax reform instead of just a “five-Blattl concept” for a tax reduction with gifts for all up to the big farmers! [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Like the Ederer-Tausender!]] Make the necessary legal frameworks to ensure that these discharges achieve fair distribution, increase mass purchasing power and – and this is the most important – a clear relief for the people involved in small incomes and for the medium class! Make sure that the negative tax is doubled and that in a decent form the discharge for all groups is the same! And make sure that a reform that promotes growth and development, sets up a model of education and provides incentives for investment! [[Abg. Scheibner: Why do you want to tax the house builders more? How do you want to increase rents?]] Thank you, Mr President. One and a half minutes I can still use for the rest of my remarks to clear out a few things that have been wrongly said. With this Köst gift, not 100 000 companies receive a gift, but from the total of 88 418 corporate tax cases according to statistics, this is getting a weak third. [[Abg. Scheibner: They were for it!]] This is a gift for the men Bartenstein and others. [[Abg. Scheibner: That is what your motion for a resolution says!]] This is the truth, and perhaps the industrial union has rightly sponsored it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6742	The motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Gusenbauer, Dr Matznetter, Mag. Moser, Mag. Hoscher and colleagues on the complete failure of the Austrian Federal Government's tax reform plans in creating growth and employment have been explained in some key points, but they are negotiating and will then be voted on. [[Abg. Scheibner: Generous!]] The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6958	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6977	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! As a tax advisor, my predecessor knows of course that not special meetings in the National Council create jobs and that above all, the policy of preventing the opposition creates jobs, but that only the economy with its skilled employees creates jobs. This is our way, this is the way of the ÖVP! Go with us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The reduction of the cost to 25 percent, the tax relief, the lower taxes on untapped profits, all these are important measures for the Carinthian economic location, all of which are important measures to create future-oriented jobs – future-oriented jobs, which we especially need in Carinthia. And for no federal country – there I am with Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch agrees – this tax reform is as important as Carinthia. [[Abg. Brosz: Election speech!]] I am pleased that we should see this constructively, because Carinthia is in the rear purchasing power, Carinthia has zero economic growth and Carinthia also looks at it, Mr. Dipl.-Ing. [[Abg. Oils: In the back!]] As far as the unemployment rate is concerned, it is not as good as you have described it here. The ÖVP federal states are in the front. That is why a thank you to the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance, for these two kept what they promised. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The reduction of the Köst will be very important for the Carinthian companies, because this will give us the opportunity to force internationalization because it gives us the opportunity to bring international companies to Carinthia. [[Abg. Oils: What are you doing against unemployment?]] And we need these opportunities in Carinthia. We need them because Carinthia has to take advantage of the opportunities in the Alps-Adria area, because Carinthia has to take advantage of these opportunities, especially through a new European neighbourhood policy. In this respect, the persons responsible for the FPÖ are not really eligible. My concern would be: We are working together constructively to achieve the best for Carinthia and Austria! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: By the head of state Dr. Jörg Haider!]] Let's work together constructively! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As spokesperson of the family alliance here in Parliament, I can also say that I am very pleased that this family package has succeeded in providing for it. That was a long-standing demand from us. Even here, the Federal Chancellor and the Finance Minister have promised to prefer those areas of tax reform that... – These are not arguments you bring here. [[Abg. Öllinger: (relating to State Secretary Dr. Finz, who eats a sugar) Government members already need sedative sugars!]] I am pleased that we have achieved decisive reliefs for the families. The child supplement to the single-earner discount or single-holder discount will only bring €200 million in discharge. And that's where you're talking about a pocket money, Mr. Cap? – These were long-standing demands of SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Similarly, the increase in the amount of earnings for single earners and single holders is a very large number of women. That was a long-standing demand of the opposition. And now you're saying that's a pocket money? – Thank God we have that! [[Abg. Sburny: Housewives! Non-working women!]] Housewives are for me, too...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7104	Please lower the noise level a little! The speaker is speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7119	These are improvements in the area of family policy that we stand for. That's our way. Take this path together constructively with us! Try to achieve something constructive with us in Austria towards full employment! And we achieve full employment only through a meaningful tax reform, full employment, we achieve only through a good economic policy that ensures economic growth. That's the way we want to go. What you're doing here is destructiveness, bad writing and dyeing on the other side. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] So thank you very much for this path. Let's continue him constructively together! I would like this not only for Carinthia, but also for a constructive cooperation here in the House. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7158	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7187	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Economic development, labour market situation and tax reform, all of this is related. If you listen to the interpretations of individual Members on statistics and so on, I must say that everyone interprets something according to his scheme. That is all right, but I am surprised that the President of the Party of the Social Democratic Party is going out here and talking about the tax reform, but hardly about the labour market situation. I have certain concerns. On the other hand, I am surprised that the financial and budgetary spokesperson of the Socialist Group is going out here and talking about the labour market situation, but not about taxes. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because they don't know each other!]] Somehow you are probably afraid that in this sense you will be “blazed” that you are actually wrong, but that this federal government is completely right with its actions. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Matznetter, I will come back to you again. The fact is that Austria is very good in international comparison with other countries as far as unemployment statistics are concerned, as far as the economy is concerned, as far as purchasing power is concerned. We are also excellent at youth unemployment. I also see it very positive that the SPÖ has participated in the “Job 4 You” programme, because there all activities are set up for youth employment, and for 6,000 young people, training facilities are created. €27 million will be invested there by the Federal Government, and €10 million will be added from the AMS's regular budget. In total, that will be €37 million. In addition, countries are required to add €6 million. We will see what Vienna contributes to this. In Carinthia, that will certainly be the case. Summa summarum is €66 million. I am glad that the SPÖ has gone along with this and not as in the past. You have failed with your youth employment programme. I only refer to ‘Euroteam’, where all the money has flown into dark canals, but there was nothing for the young people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: That's it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] No, you don't! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Oja!]] Compared to today, especially in Carinthia, we have the situation that there is not a youth on the street, but something is done for everyone to be trained. [[Deputies Öllinger and Dr. Glavischnig: That's not true!]] This is exemplary, ladies and gentlemen. As Mrs Scheucher said that the purchasing power in Carinthia was low, growth was a zero growth, I must say: Since the head of state Dr. Jörg Haider leads Carinthia, the upswing has come. In Carinthia, we've come from the Kriechspur on the trail. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Bravo!]] We have the highest level of employment in Carinthia with 193,000 employees. There has been a decline in unemployment. In December 2003, 250 people were less unemployed than in the same period of the previous year. That must be emphasized. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's it!]] When I look at Vienna – Mr Scheuch has already mentioned it – 12.2 percent of the population in Vienna are unemployed. There unemployment is increasing, where Vienna is at the forefront, what even Mr Riepl always says, but only with unemployment statistics, not elsewhere. In this case, Vienna is the final light. Kärnten recorded a new record in December with 1,318 employees more than in the previous year, Vienna a minus of 10,000, estimated ladies and gentlemen! The initiatives set up by infrastructure projects, the Koralmbahn, the Lippitzbach Bridge, the modernisation of educational institutions, new vocational schools, which have been created are positive. In these areas, the Kärnten site is properly upgraded, which is an example for the whole of Austria. It is also interesting to note that companies are increasingly located in Carinthia – like Infineon, where research and development have been transferred to Carinthia. The same applies to AT&S and so on and so on. Carinthia is clearly on track here! Now to you, Mr Matznetter. If you're suing our clubman for calling false numbers, I have to tell you, it's like this: Mr Klubobmann Scheibner said that the doubling of the amount of withdrawal was achieved in two children. Not with a child, but with two children. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Just the supplement!]] For the first child there is a surcharge of 130 €, for the second of 175 €, a total of 305 € – in addition to 364 €! This will be possible for the Austrian families through this federal government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Play You don't have the wrong numbering material! This is clearly an important step for the Austrians. If you mean, well, if the corporate tax rate is reduced, then this is only for large corporations and not for SMEs, I must say: [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] 1.4 million Austrian workers are employed in capital companies. This requires maintaining jobs, creating new ones, then expanding them and securing the location of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7350	That was the final sentence, Mr Deputies. I'm asking the auditorium to slow down the sound level! The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. – It is my job to pay attention to a fair distribution of speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7372	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Dear colleagues! After this Carinthian – rather cabaretistically supposed – election struggle is not easy to find back to the seriousness of the situation. Now a few serious numbers: We have, of course, looked at the development of Carinthia. Since today the issue of unemployment and, above all, the increase in youth unemployment is, it should be noted that Carinthia is quite a negative source of unemployment and I am... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] – Calm down, Mr Mainoni! Let us just take Mrs Scheucher seriously, who has raised this issue here. They of the Carinthian ÖVP clearly believe that black and blue in Carinthia have a particularly bad effect – more than usual where. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You have rightly pointed out how the economic data are. We'd have more here, I'll save you now. The cabaretist element you have to answer. The head of the Kärntner Landesführer also contributed to this in his election campaign start, when he drove a Formula 1 bolide in the circle. I hope, Minister of Finance, that you did not go there in any way, and at the end of the day, you have a taste for somewhere, because the tax reform you have presented has something circular. One can hope that at the end of the day the whole thing will not force economic policy against the wall. Now I want to explain why, among other things, Professor Van der Bellen concluded that these reforms are a declaration of bankruptcy of economic policy: Because they are essentially not reforms. By the way, we can talk about individual measures. We Greens do not find everything bad, not with God, but what is the reform project that will become apparent here? – It is not recognizable! This is the same as labour market policy, where you look away, hide in statistics and do nothing in the end. Similar problems exist in tax reform. The tax reform would be a great opportunity to do something on the labour market policy – only exactly the labour market-related things do not happen! You don't happen! This fits with the picture, Mr Finanzminister, which you have successfully drawn last year, that you quite understand how to operate with shame and ugliness. That's it. They say they're all being relieved. – That’s just wrong! It is precisely those – let us not argue about numbers; but at least two million people – who are not relieved by this so-called reform. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Because they don't pay for anything now! If you don't pay, you can't be relieved!]] This is the problem because these measures in the lower sector could also be a matter of labour market policy. If we were to be positive with this so-called negative income tax – with a positive payout amount corresponding to their participation in the labour market – we would have an instrument so that we could be able to find ourselves in the low-paid area – in which we all agree that we have a problem there – labour demand and labour supply would be easier to meet. The result would be more jobs. You even have to understand. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] Next point: The corporate tax reduction that has been addressed can be qualified as you want. It has already been quoted here by several speakers from newspapers. I look back on the “Economic Sheet”, and this title states: ‘Tax reform: Small businesses are the big losers". – I think that’s something about it! [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The major problem is that almost a billion of this is under the heading ‘tax reform’, but you do not think anything but this imaginative downturn in the tax rate, although it is known that tax revenue in Austria is one of the lowest in Europe in terms of corporate tax. This is an indication that the tax system in Austria is entirely in addition to that, but not to the need to reduce the rate. Again: It calls for a structural reform and not for an uncoordinated and imaginative reduction policy! We will all have to pay for this because the money you spend there now – not to say give – is not even there. With the two stages of the tax reform, they come to a volume of well over 3 billion, as you yourself say proudly, and praise for it. I say: This is a cycle-oriented budget policy! If you had anything to do with employment policy, you would have done something two years ago. At that time you could have moved a lot with an amount of €500 million to € 900 million – at least with a sum below one billion. Budgetary discipline would have been respected and something would have happened for the labour market. But you have also slowed growth and employment in this phase. This is proof that you are really oriented to election cycles and are throwing around in a large style with money that is not there. [[Abg. May. Molterer: And the EU enlargement does not take place for you?! You don't know the location competition?- Oh, my God!]] This explains our voting behaviour. The SPÖ has also put in place a proposal – I admit, a much better one than the ÖVP FPE government – which is also about a volume of 3 billion. That's too much for us! In our opinion, we must provide for different stages, and therefore we cannot go further than this SPÖ request. Finally, I would like to say: Budgetary discipline and labour market policy are quite compatible, and we only have to do the right thing! The right places are the reduction of wage-related taxes. But you're not doing anything! Contrary to your own government program, you have missed it – exactly!, you nodd – because something to do. [[Abg. Grillitsch makes a movement with the head that the speaker interprets as a nick]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] The eco-social tax reform, Mr. Colleague, which you and your competitors are always promoting...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7460	Mr Kogler, therefore, I do not ask you for the final sentence because after 5 p.m. the time limits are voluntary. So you're still talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7476	Mr President, speaking time is at our expense. That is why I come to the conclusion: The eco-social tax reform, which you also repeatedly propagate, has got rid of you songless and soundless. This would create the effect that we could take this very one billion to reduce the wage-related taxes. I ask you to: Go inside!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7503	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7521	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! – Mr Vice-Chancellor, you compared the Federal Government’s actions with health treatment. I can tell you about this. [[the speaker spoke to the Vice-Cancellor]] Wrong or too late treatment threatens people and can even be fatal! – That’s the problem of this federal government! [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Please speak to us Members! We don't understand anything else!]] You don't understand anything? [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Now!]] Well, that's great! I have just explained to Mr Vice-Chancellor that false or late treatment can be dangerous to fatal. That is exactly the problem this Federal Government has with its actions! [[Intervocations and ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Bartenstein makes it quite different: He orders the unemployed and the job-seeking person to have a placebo! Federal Minister Bartenstein! More than a year ago, you talked a lot about the valley sole going through. You assured this summer that every youth looking for a apprenticeship but not finding one will be guaranteed a course. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: That's it!]] Then I ask myself, Minister of State, how do you deal with the numbers you publish yourself in your homepage? You said, Mr Federal Minister, in the decision of the pension reform, that this would be compatible with the labour market policy, and you justified this with the argument that 5 000 to 6 000 people are more likely to find jobs in our labour market and also work. That is by no means the case! The figures show exactly the opposite: Unemployment is increasing dramatically! But you are not willing to do anything seriously about it. It is also very interesting, Mr Federal Minister, that you yourself have warned against trying to force economic activity with debt. They said at that time that we would have to resist this temptation in the next few weeks, and they thought that a demand-side stimulation of the economy would not function anyway. Federal Minister! They have always removed from the table all the proposals that have been made – probably not only because they have come from us as opposition – and have said that it would be wonderful anyway in this country. Only in the last few months do you admit, since nothing else remains that this is due to a failure of labour market policy – a labour market policy, Mr. Minister, you are doing! Federal Minister! You have also said today that the length of stay in unemployment has been reduced, although you know very well that the length of residence has increased dramatically, especially in the case of long-term unemployment. – This also shows that the labour market policy you have made is absolutely failed that it has not taken hold of! Or, Minister of State: If you look at the December benchmark of the Lisbon strategies, you can see: In the case of public investment, Austria has fallen back from the top to the last place and in consumption demand from 21st to the 25th place. It's all right. But that is no wonder in the attitude you have shown! But what is particularly terrifying, that is, also with regard to the future of Austria, is the fact that Austria is at the “lifelong learning” point in place 8 out of 15 places. Federal Minister! The SPÖ has excellent concepts, particularly as regards education policy and lifelong learning, and I ask you to: Do not insist on a policy of party-political calculation, but do something for the people in Austria! We offer you our concepts. They're here, and they're great. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Minister! I would like to give you the opportunity to join our approach here in the House and to put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not a serious treatment of an application!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can prove whether you really want to do something for people looking for work!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7655	I note that the motion for a resolution, which Mrs Silhavy has read at great speed, is properly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7676	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking Mr Gusenbauer for the request for this special meeting, but not, as you may expect, for this tax reform with the Minister of Finance, but for the request that Mr Gusenbauer should be convened, because it was foreseeable that the immediate link between the special meeting and the tax reform would serve to ensure that we will also have the greatest tax reduction in the history of the Second Republic. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Dr. Gusenbauer! Thank you for asking for this special meeting! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I would also like to thank the ORF, because live transmissions are where one cannot manipulate, because the spectator can make a real picture. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate has shown that there are significant differences in the views of the opposition and of the two government parties on labour market policy. From the outset, the government has insisted that, in order to restore full employment and ensure employment, an economic policy strategy is necessary, including the following three key elements: First: Stability in the government budget. Secondly, discharge of citizens and businesses. Thirdly, Investment in the future. Without these three things, there can be no full employment and no security of employment, ladies and gentlemen. We reached the zero deficit in 2001. We are carrying out the biggest tax reduction in the history of the Second Republic with the tax reform under discussion today. In addition, the economic packages and the growth package are included. Total € 4 billion: 3 billion tax reform, 1 billion economic and growth packages – and for those who still think in Schilling: 55 billion Schilling relief for citizens and businesses. We have never invested so much in the future, as Mr Vice-Chancellor has said here today: in research, development and infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! This is economic policy, of which we can say: Promise, hold, and also implement! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have seen what the SPÖ objectives are in terms of job security. Their main objective was undoubtedly to achieve the lifting of mass purchasing power by means of tax reductions. It is no question how important the purchasing power is in an economy, but let us not forget one thing: We don't have a wall around Austria, we're a foreign-trading country with exports and imports. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] What does this mean for the argument of mass purchasing power, Mr President of the Council? What's the name Imports? – Imports mean – all of this can be read in the import statistics – that of each euro additional purchasing power, half of it benefits foreign imports. What's the name of exports? – Exports mean that each second job in Austria is financed directly or indirectly through exports. For exports, however, it does not matter, ladies and gentlemen, how the bulk purchasing power is in Austria. It is only crucial with what quality and at what price we offer our services on the world market. So with all the meaning of the purchasing power that I do not want to narrow: Your concept, Mr President, is a concept of the Iron Curtain! [[Abg. Conscious: productivity and purchasing power!]] If all around Austria would be an iron curtain – an economy without imports, without exports – then your concept would be right, you're right! This is a concept of the 19th century. ==References====External links== – There lies the difference between government and opposition! Let me say something, Mr President of the Council – you know it anyway! –: Whether we like it or not, we live in a time of global location competition, and the only ones who can really create jobs are business people who invest their private money with us. We are living at a time when this money, this capital that is going to invest, is as mobile as never before in human history, and is moving very quickly to where the most favourable conditions for investing are, because every businessman wants to see a fair chance to make the invested money again. That is why this tax reform is so important! What happens at Köst is exclusively in favour of jobs in Austria. I know what I'm talking about, because I know how many companies are currently doing calculations with the help of tax consultants and I wonder if it would not be possible to move the next production to the Czech Republic or Ukraine. Mr President of the Council! The Voest was very close to you once, perhaps she is still doing so today. What did Voest General Director Eder say? – He said: Okay, I'll only invest in Austria if the government sets the appropriate tax policy framework! These are now set, and this will invest 1 billion € from the Voest in Austria and not abroad. Ladies and gentlemen! This applies to the viewed European newspaper, the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” (Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung), on 21 January. He said in December: “Austria, you’ve got it better!”
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7759	The next speaker is Mr Walch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7777	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! A few short sentences to colleagues from SPÖ, whether to colleagues Matznetter, Gusenbauer, Cap and many more: It is already difficult to criticise when, in Austria, the Federal Government of FPÖ and ÖVP invests in an economic package of €4 billion and when it makes a tax reform with a volume of over €3 billion to boost the economy! That's where I have to say: This has never brought the SPÖ together! You would have had enough time in the 30 years of your government to do something in this area, but unfortunately you did not. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! We could have increased the volume by one billion in the tax reform if you hadn't left us so many debts. I would ask you from the opposition to read the tax reform paper once. Makes us this joy, then you'll see that there's a lot different than you think! To talk to the SPÖ again: The SPÖ is not the party of heavy workers, but the party of heavy earners! Ladies and gentlemen! In your urgent request, which you have made today, you write – I quote –: “More than 2.2 million taxpayers do not receive a cent due to the tax reform because they have not yet paid a wage tax.” That's where I ask you: Have you ever thought that they once paid a wage tax?- Oh, my God! Who relieved them? – She has relieved this government! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Such a fool!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The number of unemployed in Austria is not satisfactory, that is true, but we must help them across party borders to reduce them. We have tied up an economic package and done much more. Just go here and claim to be able to do better, but to have no recipes, that's, I think, not the right thing! As my previous speakers have said, I would also like to point out: He that sitteth in the glass house shall not cast stones, and call a number. Vienna: Unemployment rate: more than 12 percent. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's absolutely next to it!]] In the other federal states it looks better! [[Abg. Silhavy: How are the unemployment rates in Vorarlberg?]] Not only does the Federal Government have the task of creating and securing jobs, but countries also have a responsibility in this area. I'd ask you: Go to the other heads of state, for example to the head of the Carinthian state! Mr Gusenbauer, at the next asparagus dinner you can give the recipe of Jörg Haider, how to boost the economy, and then give it to your colleague Häupl! Then you don't need to have a special meeting! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The infrastructure programme with a volume of €1.2 billion is particularly pleasing for the development of road and rail. All that is invested in these areas – the construction industry is the engine of the economy – has consequences and thus ensures many jobs. More than € 1 billion is available for research. There is more money for education, the disabled, the environment and universities. Furthermore, as part of an apprenticeship campaign starting in the second half of 2004, businesses will receive a premium of € 1,500. We are making a tax reform, as we have announced, of an advanced tax reform of € 750 million. Not 500 million €, but 750 million € have been spent in favour of the Austrian population – this is really very encouraging! –: €500 million to enforce a tax-free income of €14 500 a year and additional €250 million to strengthen families, retroactively with €1. January 2004: €200 million for an additional income for families; €30 million is intended for the increase in the amount of earnings paid by the single earner. A special pleasure for me as an employee representative is the fact that for all employees who receive a flat rate, the small and the large flat rate rates have been increased by 15 percent. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] – This is good worker policy, and that is good economic policy! We will continue to keep Austria on the track of success! We will implement just reforms, reduce privileges, create jobs and secure the future of people! [[Abg. Oils: Which privileges?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7901	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. The total speaking time of the green club is 6 minutes. The clock is set to a voluntary speaking time of 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7920	Mr President. High house! 330 000 unemployed, 43 273 young people between 19 and 25 years of age without work, 5 618 15 to 19-year-old without work, 4 469 job seekers – and yet the vice chancellor claims that we are the best, we are with the best. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, I know that you are speaking in the interests of the government too, and I have to tell you: We have a completely different understanding of politics, and we have a completely different understanding of why we are here. When it comes to a total of over 49 000 young people without work, we believe that it is urgently necessary to take steps instead of simply saying: We are among the best, and to leave everything as it is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For these 49 000 young people, not even those who are so-called hidden unemployed, who do not appear in any statistics: In the case of school leavers and school leavers who do not find a job or a job at all. Just as little is included in it are those young people who don't go to the AMS anymore because they don't see a chance anymore because they've lost all hope. They're all coming in, you can't find them in your numbers at all. But it seems to you that this is indifferent. It's not indifferent to us! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And then you make yourself up and say: We're doing everything for the youth! – Very self-congratulating, very self-satisfying, very full! I think it's time for you to take the place for politicians who are willing to take real action. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As positive examples, you have called "Jobs for You(th)" and also quoted Mr. Blum. I very much appreciate Mr Blum: Miracles will not be able to accomplish either. I do not want to dispute that there are measures in the field of youth promotion, measures that make sense, I would like to stress here. But – and that is the same thing – with a significant use of funding, you are also taking measures that are not, in fact, aimed at drawing young people out of current unemployment, in order to get them out of unemployment statistics and hide the actual picture. These measures are not a matter of helping young people in a truly sustainable way, but they are only a matter of getting numbers too beautiful, statistics too beautiful. With this procedure we can't go with! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you talk to people who work in this area, in the field of qualification, then they will tell you what pointless things they sometimes have to do, just so that young people are temporarily busy. So, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, we cannot solve these questions! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you want to give young people a chance on the labour market, you must first enable good training. If you, with Mr Blum, are right! – as big pieces hold, talk, then he will tell you first: A good, well-founded training is the basis for a youth, a youth having opportunities in the labour market at all. The PISA study - and I ask you to pay attention - has shown that 18 percent of 15 to 16-year-olds have difficult reading deficits. That means: 18 percent of 15 to 16-year-olds are unable to really capture a text if they are to read it. Do you know what this means for the entire training and training of those concerned? So: Good training instead of saving up on education would be an essential and big step towards reducing unemployment among young people! A second step would be qualification measures or employment projects. Some of these are available, but far too few. If requests to the countries that come to the Federation are made in this respect, then it is out of readiness, because you refuse to support, then you refuse the financial resources that are urgently needed to achieve more. They are pleased with the tax reform that you made up of each other, but they have forgotten the most important thing, namely to relieve the labour factor. You didn't do that again. This would have been a measure which would have had a significant impact on jobs. [[Abg. Grossruck: If you don't have jobs, you can't relieve them! You have to create jobs, then you can relieve them!]] In your tax reform, it is not a trace of an environmental-social re-taxation, which you would very well have had the opportunity to open up opportunities for the labour market and at the same time set environmental priorities. This opportunity you have really rejected with this tax reform, which you have now presented – a pity!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8001	The next speaker is Mr Moser. Time left: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8020	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today it has been possible to experience that the government has really taken a stand against the “full employment” objective and that some Members of this House have made it even stronger by costing them by comparison with the German federal unemployment figures. I would like to point out here that more than 300 000 Austrians go without work in this new year. That's a scandal! And you have the responsibility to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] No speaker from the government bank and also from the government group has been able to explain today how you want to stimulate growth in Austria with these announced tax reform measures and the growth and location law. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek:...not understood!]] They always explain what these measures are to bring. Explain the economic context to me, explain how that should work! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Read!]] They appeal to newspaper reports that take over your comments blindly. Try to make it clear to us how much growth is to rise! However, you have not been able to do this, and that has been the case since I was here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! We would therefore like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, Mr Riepl and Mr Genossins concerning: Open up fair opportunities for young people for the future. This is a 10-point programme to bring the apprentices to the corresponding training and employment. In essence, it is about creating better vocational and educational advice for young people, with a view to making up for free resurgence of the primary school, a training guarantee for young people, the establishment of regional youth employment summits, more flexible apprenticeship training, the upgrading of vocational schools – key qualifications for vocational students, and so on. – This is essentially the request I would like to make. At the end of the day, however, I would like to say the following: All the measures you repeatedly propose by this Federal Government in this context show that you do not have an economic understanding. They operate economic nihilism. In good German this means: You've given up the spoon in economic policy, it's time to go. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8076	The motion for a resolution that has just been discussed has been distributed to all Members. Mr Moser has also briefly explained him, so he stands for negotiation and for the vote. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8218	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé has now come to speak. Speaking time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8236	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of this debate, I can only say: What has been put in here by the opposition to arguments is really hairthrowing! But it also shows the helplessness of the opposition, for if you say, for example, that the government is deliberately buying unemployment or, as oilers claim, the government is not interested in unemployment, then you have gone to the last steps of the government! They have slept that there have been economic recovery packages that have, of course, created jobs. There have been 600 million additional labour costs for companies. To blame us for the lack of interest shows that you are simply looking for reasons to reject this tax reduction package that we have presented today and which we have discussed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The lack of interest, ladies and gentlemen, is, for example, in Vienna, where the absolute majority is with the Socialists and where nothing is done to prevent unemployment. [[Abg. Grade: This plate has a jump!]] [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. stupid.]] Mr Matznetter! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] – That's my closing point. Mr Matznetter, if you say: If you had followed our proposals and so on...!, I must only answer them: In your case, there would have been an increase in the basic tax, there would have been several other increases, because you would have planned a counter-financing. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No! The Lord...!]] – Don’t say no, but confess to it!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8331	The next speaker is Dr. Maier. Time left: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8349	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! High house! The remarks and discussion this afternoon have shown one thing – one can summarize it –: The opposition is penetrating, the government is running! There are dynamics here, here there are proposals; what I have heard from you, on the other hand, are old hats. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] What particularly impressed me, however, is that none of the speakers from the Social Democrats have commented on the accusations about what it looked like in Vienna, on the Vienna labour market. [[Abg. Gaál: Listen!]] Vienna is the leader in unemployment, Vienna is the final light in employment, and Vienna is the leader in the destruction of money. I'll make you a suggestion: In Vienna there is a specific, namely the Vienna Workers' Fund – lock it up! This is pure money destruction, where €24 million are put into the sand each year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In reality, this is a social-Romantic project. Mr Commissioner, you should look at it, I just call you some headlines like “Matadora”, “Radita”, “karenz works”, “AQUA” or “Go_Up” – these are loud balloons that cost a lot of money and don’t bring anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: You really don't know!]] Vienna has lost its jobs over the last ten years, it has lost 40 000 jobs in Vienna, and unemployment has increased. I ask you where your recipes are from you as social democrats and as still absolute majority holders in this city! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The Gehrers...!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The woman Gehrer sent the teachers to bed with 50!]] But I also invite you: Not only are you blocking this fund, but you are also starting a reform of the labour market service in your area! What happens there is that we have the longest stay in unemployment. [[Abg. Far from it: (on the Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein, sitting on the government bank), do you know that the person in charge is sitting in the back?]] – These are the people you have used, Mr. Collegue! – Since there is the lowest mediation rate and there is a need for the conciliation proposals for a successful job placement in Vienna three times as often as is the case in the Austrian average, I would think a little about the quality. Therefore: Let's get these alibi stories you're doing here, and finally get to the point! I would like – and I have already told Mr Cap – that you are initiating a urgent initiative to those in charge of the city of Vienna, so that something really goes on there. Mr Cap, this cynicism, which you have shown here today – almost so: unemployment and so on do not interest the government – could be summarized as follows: [[Abg. Gaál: A brilliant speech!]] If cynicism hurts, you would have to scream permanently!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8492	No further words are available. That is why I am closing the debate. We shall come to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled. As First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues, on the complete failure of the Austrian Federal Government's tax reform plans to create growth and employment. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the motion for a resolution by Dr Gusenbauer to give an indication of this. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Silhavy and the Group on modernisation and adequate budgeting of labour market policy. Here again, I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to do so. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. Thirdly, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on 'Opening Youth Fair Opportunities for the Future'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this request to rise to the sign of approval of the seats. – The request does not find the majority, it is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-01-13-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8565	I am still announcing that the meeting – which will be followed by a short second session – will bring in self-employed applications 315/A to 317/A. Questions 1293/J to 1316/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, dedicated to business communications and allocations, I call for today, 5:33 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting –. The sitting is closed.
