ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2806	The meeting was opened. The Official Protocol of 81. Meeting of 21 March 1991 In October 2004, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies of Broukal and Dr Bleckmann are reported as prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2837	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following messages: Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin Bartenstein will be sent by Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Ursula Plassnik through Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllress. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2870	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject ‘Universal status: The financial hunger of universities by the Federal Government’ First of all, Mr Van der Bellen has spoken. I give it to him and make him aware that his speaking time is 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2894	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Should the universities go the same way as Karl-Heinz Grasser with the 2005 budget – that is, those in an additional uncontrollable debt? I'll tell you the following story. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No, please!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] - You don't want to hear that? You don't want to hear what it's like at the universities? – That’s typical! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Once you made the effort to talk to those concerned, such as the vice-presidents responsible for financing the budgets responsible for the universities, you would hear what I have been told recently. But You don't want to hear that! The Vice-President is facing the problem of creating a balanced budget for the next year, but he lacks a few million euros. What's going on? – An Austrian bank is at the door and says: Mr. Vizerektor, we are here for that. If a company has too little money if the projected expenditure exceeds the revenue, then we are there for it. We'll give you a loan. The rector in question – something I'm supposed to say, surprised – says: Well, please, and what security do you expect? Should we pledge our salaries? Should we pledge the furniture of the audiences? Should we pledge some PC? Are we supposed to install a laboratory device? – No, the bank says you get the tuition fees anyway. Pave us the tuition fees for the next years! We've come that far! Should the money of the students who pay their tuition fees in the hope that they will find better terms of study that they have anything of it, now this money, which has been promised at that time, that it will be in addition to the university budget – which is not the case – in the future for the repayment of interest and debt to banks? The rector in question has gratefully rejected this offer. And I think he's right. This cannot be the way of universities into the future! I can only warn against this development. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] As far as one really is concerned in this context, the government and the government parties ÖVP and FPÖ do not want to allow an opportunity to speak of “world class”, of “world class universities”, which they promote, establish, establish in Austria. – And then one finds that one provincial trick after another is applied to prevent exactly that. I have already mentioned an example: When the study fees were introduced, the government parties promised that this money would be additional available to universities. - That's not true! That's not the case! In return, the Minister of Finance, with the consent of the Minister of Education and Science, reduced the public funding for the universities. These tuition fees are not made available to universities in addition to public funds, but are substitutes. You have not complied with the promise you have given, my Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! At the time when universities were to be autonomousized – something that we all basically supported – when the universities were distributed, you promised that the additional costs incurred in this context would be paid. – You have not complied with this promise! I only mention two small examples, so that everyone understands what it's all about: If you switch from the official schedule to the employee's schedule, there are for and against; but if you do, there are additional costs, without any change, only because the employer, the university, has to pay employers' contributions to social security, because the staff gradually switch to the ASVG system, instead of being in the official's schedule. Not an additional professor, not an additional assistant is meant, but only the existing staff! Second small example: In the past, the Federation has not completed any insurance. Why? – It was a reasonable consideration that the federal government as a huge insurance community does not need an extra insurance policy to ensure, for example, something against fire, water intrusion or whatever. Otherwise, of course, this is at a distributed, autonomous university with a manageable inventory of devices and buildings. This means, if you want to, this stock of infrastructure is to be insured. This also goes to the tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of euros at small universities. This can be understood immediately by any citizen and any citizen who has a family house and has insured this house against elementary damage. So: Without a single post being added without a single hearing room being added without a single laboratory device being added, the costs at the universities are rising! – You have promised to pay off these additional costs from the government groups. You didn't do that! The university's autonomy is to manage the lack. And you promise a great motivation for staff at the universities. You understand this under the way to the World Class University. If it wasn't so sad, you could just laugh at it! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer usually responds to such reservations: I have nothing to do with it; the global budget of the universities has been negotiated between the rectors and Finance Minister Grasser! – It is right, Minister of the University, that the negotiations have run that way. However, you should not resort to the position: even guilt if it is not enough. For example, it is only in provincial policy, not in the “world class” policy that one steals from responsibility! But this is not just about universities as such, but about the future of the country with the corresponding economic effects on the productivity of workers in the future. – Mr President, I would like to thank you for your support. At least you should be able to understand what it is all about – beyond the purely cost of teaching and research. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] 100 million € have been required by the rectors as a necessary supplement, repair, the necessary replacement of infrastructure at universities, given the decline of investments in recent years. Mrs. Gehrer retired from responsibility and referred to the Council for Research and Technology. – Ms. Federal Minister Gehrer, you already have a responsibility for the universities! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Furthermore, the Council has to grant only research resources and is not responsible for the infrastructure in teaching. And those means you've announced here are just a drop on the hot stone. Now you can say: A drop is better than no drop at all. – Yes, but then please stop swimming from the “world class university” at the same time! It can only get your nerves on you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You always hear the same things at any university, not in every direction, but in many fields of study: Too few courses, hearing hall capacities are a problem, too few speakers, with the effect that students cannot complete their studies in the scheduled time, namely eight semesters up to the Master. But then you are the first of the government parties to complain, lament and shudder about the students who work too little! They cannot study at all in the scheduled time, that is the situation at present! This, of course, leads to a circulus viciosus, which naturally means that students also have to work more because they are forced to live on something, earn money to do so, which in turn extends their study time. This cannot be in all our interest, ladies and gentlemen – also of the government parties. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In conclusion: Minister Gehrer! They stem from the responsibility for the now distributed and autonomous universities. But they're still responsible. You are certainly responsible for schools in this country, and the 2005 budget figures suggest that 1 000, 1 500 – I do not know, in the order of 1,500 teachers, plus/minus a few hundred, in compulsory schools next year will be missing. Let us look at the next PISA report to see how our school system is cut off by international comparison. I'm very skeptical. I like to be surprised positively. But if this positive surprise does not occur, Mrs Gehrer, then you and only you are responsible for this result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3004	Mrs Bundesminister für Bildung, Wissenschaft und Kultur Elisabeth Gehrer spoke on an introductory statement. I'll give her the word. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3028	Mr President. High house! Mr Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen has made a number of statements here, which I would like to expressly contradict. I notice: I'm not stealing from responsibility! – I have the responsibility for the universities, I have the responsibility for the rapid and reasonable implementation of the University Law in 2002. I have a responsibility for the fact that the payments there have been made in addition to the global amount to the universities. The global amount that has been negotiated is clearly stated in the law, it amounts to €1,660 million. It is noted that for this global amount, amounts for reference increases, rental expenses, contracts, higher education procurement and clinical additional costs are added. It is also determined that the global amount will be the necessary money for implementation costs: €11 million this year, and the current implementation costs will be estimated at €4 million each year. This is the basic budget, and with this basic budget plus the study contributions, universities are 6 percent above the budget in 2003. That's to be calculated, that's to be proved. But my responsibility goes even further. My responsibility also means that I have negotiated with the Minister of Finance something that the negotiators have forgotten at the Global Budget, namely the pension costs for overtime and additional expenses. What was forgotten at that time also comes to the budget: the additional pension costs, which were not included in the basic budget at that time, were not included in the global budget. The same is true of the service allowances, which were not calculated at the time. That means I've taken care of my responsibility very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am, of course, also responsible for receiving additional resources for infrastructure, because the opening balance sheets that were first drawn up have become apparent, what has happened in the last decades or in the last years of the 20th century. ==References====External links==* Official website We now have an overall overview. We know there's something to do. However, we do not do it as before with the casting can, but we do so on request, on the basis of priority and at the request of the universities on grounds of justification. I ask you to take this into account. [[Call the SPÖ: This is Parliament, not the school!]] We have an additional € 18 million this year and an additional € 50 million in the next few years. Whoever claims that € 68 million is nothing, I think has lost the ratio to the money. [[Call the SPÖ:Can you write it on the board?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] 68 million € in addition to infrastructure, which is 936 million schilling of additional investments. I think that's a lot of money, a lot of money from the Austrian taxpayer. To this end, we still have to expect that in 2002 we gave €50 million to the infrastructure. We also invest in the buildings: From 2000 to 2003, € 165 million was spent on new buildings and renovations. In this year alone, in 2004, €30 million will be spent on university buildings. So we've been at the 100 million € you've called for, in addition to the budget. In addition to the total budget, at least € 100 million will be added in 2004/2005/2006. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I notice that I am well aware of my responsibility for the universities! Of course, we face major challenges. The universities have implemented the implementation of the new law very quickly and very professionally. I would like to thank all rectors and all vice-presidents for this. The changeover to this new system has required an incredible commitment, this has been extremely successful. We have over 300 different study areas in Austria. There are some of which you always hear at the beginning of the study year that something doesn't work. But you can take a look at the study conditions for students, be it in Linz, be it in Graz, be it in Innsbruck, whether it is also in Vienna at the Vetmed, whether it is also in Vienna at many institutes of the University of Vienna, are extremely good by the bank. The universities have re-submitted 331 posts this year. It is therefore possible to recruit new forces. The universities have decided their own forms of organisation in their own responsibilities. The universities are currently working on their 2005 budget. We will work together with them on this budget. We have, of course, the responsibility for the fair distribution of this money. That's what we're going to do. Ladies and gentlemen! The universities in Austria are of little use if they constantly claim to be bad in the public. Interestingly, it looks different abroad. Interestingly, the Austrian universities abroad have a very good reputation. The new university law is constantly being discussed in all European countries as a very special law. [[Abg. Oillinger: “Dispute”, but why? You have to ask yourself that!]] You may have missed the fact that we are particularly investing in centres of excellence for which the focus at universities is the prerequisite. I remember the Institutes of Scientists Penninger, Zoller or Zeilinger. Excellence centres are formed at our universities, which are world-class and world-class institutes. That's what we're proud of. I think it would be good for universities to receive more positive feedback from politics, support to meet the challenges, but also positive feedback. That's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3112	We are now entering the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers is 5 minutes in the current hour. – Mrs Brinek, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3133	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I want to start with a newspaper section, with a quote: Alert! For the first time, the rector of the university and the high school joined forces. Current occasion: preliminary figures for the winter semester, swelling of the student lavins, the space shortage at the universities is pressing, budget resources stagnating to decline. – In addition to the comment that the consequences of all this will become visible only in several years. I'll let you know what year this newspaper comment comes from. - I'll relieve you: From 1977, Minister Firnberg, Minister of Finance of SPÖ, Federal Chancellor of SPÖ. – Hard to believe! The figures, the newspaper reports from 1977 to today can be continued. Every year at the beginning of the semester, sometimes earlier than on 9. November, the opposition comes up with the idea of infirmating the university. And so she does it again this time. The emergency is the case, there is Krisaryede. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Look at the conditions!]] . I am more at universities than you are, Mr. Colleague, because I teach there; and so are some here. That's why I know the conditions a little better. – The talk is about chaos and budget tricks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I am particularly addressing Mr Van der Bellen, not Mr Professor. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Do you have a concept?]] I'm horrified, I'm worried when I think of your ethos as a university teacher and read your statements that the government is about to starve at Unrestherd University. I am afraid, Professor, with what indifferentity, with what kind of standard polemics and generalization you describe the state of universities when I read the weekend newspapers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You, Professor Van der Bellen, said: Stop the "Swarf"! – Yes, I agree! End with the swelling of emergency, chaos, crisis and so on. This sulphur has been present since the 1970s! We don't do anything good to universities if we continue this issue. [[Abg. Sburny: They make permanent fog!]] The government is acting. This Parliament wants to do a majority of good, differentiated speech, differentiated policy and substantial consolidation, as do other countries and other cities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The topic of consolidation: Did you know that some cities and federal states in Austria are also seeking consolidation? – The city of Vienna reduces 5 percent of the social budget, reducing several percent of the Vienna art and cultural budget. [[Abg. Oellinger: Are you still happy about this?]] – No, it’s about consolidation and the whole thing. Small Aperçu: Did you know that the low Austrian grain farmers have to sell eight times as much grain to buy a kilo of bread as they did ten years ago? [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Are the farmers now to blame?]] Everyone's doing something! If 6 percent more budget for 2004 comes out for universities, then you can't talk about an emergency, then you can't talk about chaos and a crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ministers, the rectors, the reasonable people at the universities say: The budget's not overcrowded. We don't live in lush times. But rector Winckler as spokesman of the rector's conference says: We can master the situation. We can live with it. No one likes to have a lot of times anyway. I am therefore in favour of working with honest figures. [[Abg. Oils: Bravo!]] [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Broukal, who is absent today, said, for example, on the topic of the Institute of Journalistics: 3,000 students are waiting for support. – Then there were 1,000, in the previous stage 300, and as it turned out, there were 100 students for whom a care was also found. What about the honest numbers and the university's disease? – The government and the government parties do not. The ERASMUS Advisory Council has also made the reduction of grants independently. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You like that? I even forgot the ERASMUS reduction!]] The Minister has provided €500 000 to compensate for this. The cost of research infrastructure. You're not allowed to choose which masherl must have money. It is money of taxpayers, the government which is granted to universities for research purposes. Research-led teaching means investing in research infrastructure. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: The ERASMUS program is a game of mourning!]] These criticisms have only been left. These criticisms have sustained the Minister. More than € 68 million will be available for the improvement of research infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== November 15 years ago, the wall fell in Berlin. We rejoiced here, I remember very well. – We do not build new walls and bulwarks against reason and against thinking! The university is the place of differentiated speech and differentiated argumentation. This is also very good for us in the future. So let us take ourselves seriously and by the word! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3295	As the next speaker, Mr. Dr. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3314	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Brinek, you seem to be confusing a lot. [[Abg. Steibl: That was a very good speech!]] We are not talking here about the emergency at the universities in the form of the fact that the universities would be incapable. We are talking here about an inadequate education policy of this government and of this House which you have to answer. And on the title of the current hour, there is nothing to do with it at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I have six facts here, you have to disprove them first. First: The university budget is absolutely inadequate. In 1999, there was still 4.3 percent of the Federal budget for universities. Today it is 3.86 percent, a dramatic decline. – This is reality, not what you say in beautiful numbers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Secondly, The study fees have not brought any improvement to the students. On the contrary: Many wait for exams, many are waiting for courses that can no longer be held because the money for them is missing. Thirdly, The motivation at the universities is on the ground. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: With your regret, no wonder!]] Blame is your university law, colleague, your UG, with which you have excluded thousands of qualified staff at the universities from any qualified participation. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: They're only learning to cry!]] These are primarily the habilitated middle builders who have nothing more to talk about because your law excludes them from it. [[Abg. Großruck: Are you now for the Ambrozy or against it?]] Fourth: The government influence is as big as never before. Stumbling university councils, in the truest sense of the word, are getting involved in the leadership of the universities. Fifth, you open a bottle Overall, the number of unemployed reaches a record value. She's not as high as since the 1950s. Thousands of highly qualified graduates of universities, colleges and academies have no chance of employment. 9 100 were the beginning of this month. This is a waste of spiritual resources for which you are responsible. This is not a glamour, but it is a grossly bad educational policy that you have to answer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Call to the SPÖ: This is a witness of poverty!]] Let's get to the sixth point – it's all right, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you spoke of responsibility –: This is about a potential for damage that goes far beyond what has previously been called the budget. I have here the opinion of the Ministry of Education on the Service Law Novelle 2004. There has been little public talk about this so far. But this statement has it in itself as far as the responsibility of the Ministry of Education is concerned. The question is: What is an academic degree in Austria in the eyes of this House, in her eyes, colleague Brinek? Let's start with a few simple questions! Is visiting a folk school an academic degree? – We will agree: [[Abg. Großruck: Come on!]] No, no, no, Is a matura an academic degree? - Not either. Is a Bachelor an academic degree? [[Abg. Großruck: Is “Radio Eritrea” a...?]] Is a Bachelor an academic degree? – Of course! Is a master's degree at a university academic? - Also! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Will future teachers at the higher education institutions have academic degrees? – Of course! But all these answers are wrong when it comes to the new civil service law you are about to decide here. There it is quite clear that in the eyes of this legislator, this parliamentary majority, all these academic degrees are not academic degrees in the eyes of ÖVP and FPÖ. You won't be recognized. This is a scandal of the special class! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In this way, Mrs. Federal Minister, on the one hand, you lead the Bachelor in an issue – just yesterday – with how well this works with the three-member study, and in reality you tell all graduates on the other hand: But your degree has only Matura level for us! – This is not so indifferent, colleague Großruck. [[Abg. Großruck: The broukal has no academic degree at all! And he is your scientist!]] This is far from public service and private sector. These are the six points that must be said: It is time for this education policy to end this higher education policy and replace this type of education policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3478	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3512	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Niederwieser, you are really continuing the absolute contradictions in which the SPÖ is constantly ensnared. I have here a press release by the chairmen of the University Teacher Union Andrea Kdolsky. It says that she does not like it if the doctorate is equated with the Bakkalaureat and the FH degree. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think that the trade unionists of the ÖGB are not necessarily to be described as close to government. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are talking about the science budget, you should look at the figures properly. In 1997, the budget for science was 1.02 percent of gross domestic product, while this year it was 1,36 percent. This shows very well that this government really is at the heart of science and the promotion of universities. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The universities are, of course, required by the university law. Autonomy, a global budget and the new structures require a massive commitment and also a rethinking at universities, because self responsibility means having to face challenges. If you really understood the structure of the UOG in 2002 – and I fear that this has not yet been done by the SPÖ – then you realize that this law offers huge opportunities for universities to become attractive research and study sites. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's why the scientists leave?- Oh, my God!]] It is quite clear that restructurings in every firm and institution are laborious, because it is not so pleasant to start from long-term processes, it is also difficult to carry out these restructurings. But they are necessary – both in businesses and in institutions, for the future good existence of universities. The universities simply need support and motivation. She didn't need constant polemizing and heating through the opposition. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One thing is also quite clear: The organisational structures and problems cannot be solved through money alone, only through financial grants. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: But it doesn't really hurt!]] Of course, one has to address the problems, but it cannot be said that on the one hand self-responsibility is required, but on the other hand, the Ministry of Problems, as soon as they occur somewhere, must stand. Self-reliance also means solving your own problems. Mr Gusenbauer – he's not here today, unfortunately – in a report on 29 October. In October, it was said that the building of the robbery at the universities had to be terminated. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: How often!]] I'm not quite sure what number material the SPÖ expects. It is the fact that in 2004, on average, all universities received 6 percent more funding for their budget, the University of Vienna even more than 11 percent. It is a fact that Austria pays significantly more per student per year than the OECD countries average. Austria is in front of Germany, is in front of Finland, is in front of France, is in front of Japan and is in the ninth place in the OECD in front of Italy when it comes to how much money is spent on students. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The fact that additional resources were made available to the research infrastructure in addition to the current budget has already been mentioned by the Federal Minister for Research. It should not be mentioned that more than €60 million are available in addition to the research infrastructure. There are also many institutes where the operation works. The opposition is constantly trying to get out only those few institutions where that is not the case. She tries the fact that all the assistants and professors are really trying to make a working study run, simply come to the table and not even take note of this. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition really does not know what it wants. [[Abg. Brosz: Can you please explain it to us?- Oh, my God!]] On the one hand, you want central, plan-based universities because they simply don't trust universities to use financial resources efficiently. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Talk time!]] On the other hand, you want less influence by the state, of course only if it is a blue-black government. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: closing!]] I therefore ask you to: Let the universities finally work! Stop doing party politics at the expense of teachers and students!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3645	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. He also speaks to us for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3663	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! They will not hear stories from me, but how Mrs. Partik-Pablé wishes to do this, facts and facts, and they are even better than stories and can be well connected with them. [[Abg. Scheibner: Hopefully no criticism of your party president!]] Therefore, I am not going to tell you something about paper rolls and window cleaning at universities, but I ask the Minister the following question: You know the statement “This is for the fish”? Now you'll ask yourself: What about this nautical-maritim-biological excursion? – In Innsbruck, the aquariums were re-filled at an institute of Limnology and Zoology. [[Abg. Scheibner: So what a story!]] Facts! – Soon on, all the fish were swimming up with the belly. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is a story!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: fairy tales!]] This experiment was repeated, and in turn the fish swam up with the belly. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The story is no more interesting than that of Mr. Van der Bellen!]] Now I come from the fish to the people and the woman minister. – In this building, which has been under renovation for years and has been applied for, the entire water in the water pipes is most likely contaminated with the bacterium Escherichia coli and with Legionelles. Tables have been placed – there is no need for a budget overrun law – on which: no drinking water! If I look at how you sell the budget increases, then I come to very hard facts. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: There's a responsibility for the institutes!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! They're always talking about budget increases. I asked you a question, and do you know what your answer is? – I quote literally: ‘The budget cuts quoted therefore do not mean that less money is available, but that there are lower payment commitments in the areas mentioned.’ So you admit and say: “The listed reductions do not mean...” – But what are the areas mentioned? For the play: the university space requirement at the Chemieinstitut Innsbruck, the judicial medicine in Vienna, the record buildings at the University of Salzburg, where you can go into the open by hand at the Geistenswissenschaftliche Bibliothek, and where the mice can be busted on the books, so that the erotic literature, which seemed to be the most sought after for nesting and the gnawing, had to lay a stick higher. That's all known – and in view of that, you say that there is no longer any need for any more clinical extra costs?- Oh, my God! They know that universities are exposed to countries and communities and that university staff at the university clinics spend almost 100 percent of their regular service in patient care. But you say: The universities are autonomous! Let's go! Let's go! I'll take care of it. – But who is helping them to resolve this and get rid of these shortcomings? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You know what happened in Innsbruck. Sick people are not going to be healthy at 4 o'clock in the afternoon, after completion, or at 7 o'clock in the evening, when there is a service, but one is sometimes forced to continue to treat these patients and help them. Overtime could, writes the rector, no longer be budgeted and no longer paid. Either you do it voluntarily or you go home. There, too, you can say: Come on, you're autonomous! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Health care has nothing to do with the university!]] What else has been said to explain the budget cuts? – The offices of the universities. But you know exactly that the new law has created additional costs. We warned: Duplications in medicine by disseminating, taking over ministerial tasks by the universities themselves and so on and so on. In view of this, you say that at the offices of the universities, fewer staff are necessary, although they have more tasks to deal with. I don't understand! Now again, to do the truth enough. . I know that, because it is in the index, it is not allowed to say ‘lye’, it is not allowed to say ‘dummy’, it is not allowed to say a few things, then I say: That's not the truth! That's not intelligent! The budget looks like this: In 2003, it was 107 million less than in the previous year's budget. Then, in 2004, there was a “sageful ” increase of 6 percent, as you say. Do you know what this increase means? We thus reach the 1999 budgetary position. Is that so great? Is that great? For the expenditure of Chapter 14, science: minus 1.3 percent. They say it's plus, and that's because you're just making some increase by personnel costs. But these are zero-sum games you're making us out here. I am not talking about the terms of study now, but I would like to say the following: When seminars are attended from 70 to 100 people, you can't talk about a seminar, that's a mass lecture. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The border is 35!]] There are! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] According to the rectors, there was an investment return of €100 million between 1999 and 2003. But you're talking about elite universities! I made the following comparison: This means as much as building a gourmet temple in the land of malnutrition. I'd say, I would love to be relieved of such show elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3807	Mrs. Gehrer has reported on a word report. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3825	Mr President. High house! I think there must be some clarification here. First: I'm not talking about elite universities. [[Call at the SPÖ:Should I be with you?]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: (replicating) Who needs it!]] Professor Seilinger proposed setting up an elite university and we set up a working group to examine this. I am not talking about it, but I am examining this proposal. Secondly, I am not talking about a “speakable increase”, but I have said that the universities have a dynamic budget, a legally secured budget, where there can be no budget commitment and where it is determined what resources are available. There are a lot of different GDP calculations, we should sit down and see what GDP account we are applying. Perhaps unsuspecting is a statistics published in the “standard. ” There it was shown that the universities had the lowest budget of all time in 1997. In 1997, under a Federal Minister of Education, Scholten and a Minister of Finance, climate, there was the lowest budget ever available to universities. Since then, there have been increases in the science budget. I also note that the €100 million required by the opposition is actually worth €68 million for the infrastructure from research infrastructure and €30 million for construction measures alone. I also note: The ERASMUS programme is extremely successful. It will not change anything, it will not be shortened, the necessary funds will be spent. In conclusion, I note that publishing in Vienna is a very good example of how to deal with upcoming challenges, how to make the demands available at the university and how to make the necessary resources available. Our universities have started in a good year, and we need to see that we continue to develop them with positive support in the coming years.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3883	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3901	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Greens are trying with the very catchy title of this current hour by talking about the “hunger of universities” – like the opposition in total in recent months and years – to re-run panic, cheap political effects. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! You have heard the figures today, and you have also heard the figures in the Committee on Budgets. You have heard again today from Mrs. Minister and my colleague, Mr. Brinek: There is more money for universities than in the past! This cannot lead to the hostilities of the universities, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But let us ask a very appointed representative of the universities, namely the chairman of the rector's conference, Rector Winckler! According to an APA issue of 26 March 2004, he has received a budget for 2004. In May 2004, he said that he considered the financial challenges to be ‘challengable’. – There was no mention of the “exodus of universities”. ==References====External links== In October 2004 on the excitement of publicity, as it was again presented here today, “that of more than 100 courses of study at his university” – the University of Vienna – “it is only 6 where there are bottlenecks.” Let me also note: The vast number of seminars at the University of Vienna is filled with only 30 to 40 students, not more, and this is quite a suitable way to work and teach. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The quality improvement that is possible in these areas, as can be seen from the examples from practice, has achieved the Unis autonomously, out of their own effort, and that is also good. That is what we want, and that should remain the case in the future. Overall, the universities have no less, but more money at their disposal. I would like to bring the number once again, because it is remarkable: more than € 2 billion, that is, almost 30 billion schilling annually for the universities. There is no way to talk about the “hunger of the universities ”! The universities now have the full freedom, under the University Law 2002, to use, within the framework of their autonomy, the resources provided to them, as they consider useful and efficient. That's what I'm going to assume, and I also think that's the way it is. The universities also have the appropriate human resources and conditions. There – also in the economic field – the elite of our country is active, and it will manage to use so much money – almost 30 billion schilling annually – effectively, efficiently and in the sense of students and research. Let us also look at an international comparison – there are two essential tasks of the universities: on the one hand, teaching, on the other hand research –: In teaching – my colleague Achleitner has already mentioned this – Austria is OECD-wide as far as expenditure per student is concerned, namely from 26 countries studied, in the ninth place: far ahead of Germany, but also before Finland, which is always highlighted as a model in the field of education/training. In the field of research, Austria is at a research rate of 2.27 percent in 2004, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, considered “not possible” in 2003 and did not believe us. More than € 2 billion from this research and development ratio comes from the public sector, from the state, the federal government, the countries and the municipalities. In conclusion: They continue to depend on the opposition parties – and that is, I believe, the cardinal mistake – a completely outdated model of the universities, namely the model that universities are offices of a Federal Ministry, should therefore place themselves there for their money and convince the officials there which money should flow to where. – But that is no longer the real situation! [[Abg. Sburny: Where do they stand now?]] This is no longer the reality internationally, and that is no longer the reality in Austria! This is different according to the University Act 2002, which has welcomed a lot of people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] The universities now receive financial resources – more than in the past! – and they can use these resources, as they believe: efficient, meaningful and in the interests of students and research. [[Contradict with the SPÖ and the Greens]] That's right, that's important – and this also works very well at universities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition, especially you of the Greens: Stop your uncertainty policy! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Budgetary policy is uncertain!]] Stop yelling at the universities! If we have confidence in the universities, we believe together in the performance of our universities, their functionaries, employees and students who work there! This has been successful in the last two years – and it will also be in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3984	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. She also speaks to us for 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4003	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you listen to Mrs. Gehrer here, you could get the impression that it's all right. [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: This is beautiful! Can't that be?]] It is quite impressive, Mrs Federal Minister, how you are creating yourself here and presenting things, so that you could get the impression that universities would have sufficient financial resources at their disposal anyway, and you, Mrs. Federal Minister, would try to get more and more funding. They also talk about “good conditions of study”, of “world-class university” and mean what this excitement is about on the part of the opposition. Furthermore, the opposition lamented the universities and refused the positive feedback they would deserve. – By the way, the universities really deserve this! I would like to stress from this point of view that we know that many university members, in all professional groups, are really trying to make the most of it, even in view of the really difficult and desperate situation. Surely these people are not at fault! On the contrary! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] But, Mrs. Federal Minister, as much as I would like to believe, or as much as I would like to be the situation for the universities I wish for the students: Unfortunately, the situation at the universities is quite different – and you know that too, because you also receive appropriate letters. Students will sometimes have the opportunity to talk to you about their situation – I assume. So you have to know, Mrs. Federal Minister, that the situation at the universities is different! But that's your responsibility! You have “forget” that in your list of responsibilities! Therefore, a small supplement: There is a homepage of the Austrian University School, the student representation, on which students under the title “I want to study” describe how difficult the situation at the universities is. I would recommend you look at this website, and now – due to the short period of time – just give you a few impressions. In the Institute of Romance, for example, you have to wait three hours in front of the computer until you can register for a seminar, then quickly catch the right time – and if you have bad luck, there is no room left! – That was not the case 20 years ago, you know that! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That was 20 years ago!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] In front of the Audi Max, students need to sit around at 8 o'clock in the morning to have the opportunity to sit on a seating plan. The interpretation students write that for hundreds of students two compulsory exercises are offered: 25 to 30 places. – Years of waiting is the result! The nutritionists write that for 2,600 students there is only one professor available. What else is emergency, if not such circumstances?- Oh, my God! Of course, this is the result of a very difficult financial situation in which you, Mrs Federal Minister, have brought universities in recent years. What the medical universities are about to do is there for the students, through a changeover, a situation that is just about to despair. The number of examination offers, the examination dates has been halved. Students learn for exams, are prepared, but have to say: Hopefully I'm lucky and actually get an appointment! If they don't get and wait and wait until they get an examination date, even though they've long learned their exam, then that's the student we always had to hear from you that the students in Austria are far too long at the universities, so they have to introduce tuition fees so that the young people study faster! Now the study fees are introduced – but the conditions are getting worse and worse! You don't know what people pay for! They pay longer because they can study slower. So actually a pretty “screw stick” to which you use the students! There can be no talk of world-class universities! The financial situation. – By the way: We do not have to talk about whether the figures are voting or not, because here you can see that the university budget is getting lower and lower in the share of the total budget. [[the speaker presents a graphic with the title “Hochschulbudget, Share in the Bundesbudget” on the speaker’s board]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] These are official figures, they come from the current budget issue which is under negotiation. Thus, the situation will not be better, and the situation at the universities therefore looks the same. By the way: If one had continued to set the priorities of social-democratic science ministers, the universities would have more than € 280 million this year. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] The rectors would then not have to beg for an emergency program of €100 million, an emergency program, but you, Mrs. Federal Minister, refuse it! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: They don't have to beg! That's what I'm rejecting! The rectors don't have to beg! The rectors are not beggars!]] Unfortunately, you also refuse conversations with students! The ÖH has invited to a “round table”. – Your commitment is still missing, Mrs. Federal Minister. ==References== You still have time on November. Don't refuse, please, not even talk!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4115	The next speaker is Deputy Dipl.-Ing. Shame. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4133	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Brinek has started her speech with a comparison from agriculture – that would actually be my topic – but the comparison was not so bad at all. I would therefore like to begin my speech with a comparison of the national defence. Professor Van der Bellen: This current hour would be referred to as “classical pipe recorders” in the state defense, because what came from your side was actually disappointing – I want to judge it fairly now. I'm not here so long, Professor. Van der Bellen, I have only been allowed to listen to your speech for about two years – and actually do it very much. I usually sit in here with your speeches and listen to you because you have really interesting approaches back and forth. But there was nothing to be noticed today, Professor. Her speech of ten minutes was somehow empty; there was no vision at all, there was no content inside. Actually, just pure disappointment! It has just “fascined me” that one can introduce a current hour with such a small amount of any visions or with so little prospect into the future. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Well, please!]] It may be to be explained that the Greens have never been in government responsibility in the final effect. [[Abg. Scheibner: They're pushing!]] And after your speech today, you can only hope that they will not be in government responsibility for as long as possible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler:... get something more, this analysis!]] I then thought, but it could also be that this really disappointing speech is due to you having other problem, because if you observe the greens in the last few weeks and months, you actually don't notice any position on all really brilliant topics at all. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: What can you say about the matter?]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You don't think anything about the universities?]] For example, health reform, the planned financial compensation, anywhere where we use the liberals, wherever we offer constructive solutions, where we strive, where we fight and struggle for good results, there is nothing to hear from you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] This may sometimes have to do with the fact that in the ranks of the Greens there has been a tough struggle for neutrality for days now that Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig fights with Dr. Pilz for whether we should remain neutral or not. All these are problems that the Greens have to deal with. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You don't think anything about the universities!]] I would really ask you to find your line within the party, that you define this line and then return to the political parquet. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Thank you!]] Then we can also talk about education policy again! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Sburny:... just wait until you solve your internal problems!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] It's more interesting there with the SPÖ: There is this self-appointed Uni-Reformer – "Professor Broukal", "Dr. Broukal’, however you want to call him – but he’s not here today, he shines by absence. [[Call the SPÖ: Because he's sick!]] That's a shame, because it'd be his subject. [[Abg. Reheis: Can he be sick once?]] - Excuse me, colleague, but I said it was a pity! I didn't criticize it. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Then he “does not shine” by absence!]] I've just expressed my grief and it's a pity he's not here. [[Abg. Reheis: You should wish him good improvement!]] Then there is the party president Gusenbauer, who is not there either. Maybe he's sick, too. [[Deputies Dr. Van der Bellen and Oellinger: A word for the university!]] It is fascinating, because it shines through presence. It's really bad! Probably he's just in the middle of his team...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4391	Ladies and gentlemen! Let the speaker speak! [[Calls: If not]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4420	Thank you, Mr President. In reality, the unrest within the opposition only shows that they have been caught at the right foot, because if after an hour of plenary debates they finally get more quelled, then we are on the right path! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You haven't been there yet!]] Dr. Niederwieser – I am now returning to DDr. Niederweiser – stands out here and calls the education policy “slaughter bad”. [[Abg. Heinzl: You're a flash-gneader!]] I asked Mrs. Dr. Pablo, which actually means "gross"! We in Carinthia have two entrances: There is once the toad – this is a “cret” – and then there is the cave. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Grotte mit Gustav!]] We have long considered how to come to this expression and what it means. Just, Mr. Ddr. Decliner: I think it doesn't matter who's in the government. It does not matter who is responsible for education policy. But it is certainly not entirely no matter to use such expressions. I think it is simply – and I really want to articulate myself there – embarrassing that Mr DDr. Dedicated such expressions used here in this High House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] This has not deserved the government or the opposition! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is because he's always only as...!]] You, Mr. colleague, and Mr. Broukal, too, are always talking about the ‘old laboratories’, about the ‘old institutions’, about the need to do something at the universities. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] – Please, I have 15 APA notifications on my desk that discuss this. Please, who was in government responsibility until 2000? Who made this policy until 2000? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Niederwieser!]] Who has never renewed these old things? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] What is the reason why we have some of these problems today?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4535	Mr Parnigoni, you are already in the fifth call!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4550	He's getting smarter, that's a good sign! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He wasn't at the university at all!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that there are also opportunities for improvement in education policy. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion, Mr President. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Time will come when your time is over!]] I am also convinced that everyone should work to improve these things. Only: What the opposition has delivered here today actually lacks any comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4621	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4649	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I do not think it is necessary to comment on this speech because you, Mr Scheucht, have not said anything about education and university policy at all. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What is he supposed to say?]] And that it is possible at a current hour to just say nothing on this topic for five minutes, that is quite a performance! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: I repeated what you said! That's why you didn't say anything!]] In connection with education and university policy, it is operated on with a large number of figures, and I must confess to you that I no longer believe it to be the central question of whether the global budgets increased by 1.3 percent, the total costs for the universities have fallen by 0.4 percent. The fact is that the situation at the university simply offers a very sad picture that the situation is getting worse – and this has been happening for years! The conditions for students are constantly worsening. It started with the introduction of the tuition fees – as a result of which it began that students need longer than before for their studies because they now have to work for their studies. This has, as evidenced by several studies, led students to lose semesters, need additional time. Further, now, you can't even study when you've paid the tuition fees. One is not able to complete one's studies, because in many cases – and even there I do not want to argue about the number, whether this is a thousand or several thousand; but in many cases, in many cases, there is no internship. They all know people who lose one, two or even three semesters. It's just not a rarity anymore! And this is a disaster not only in education policy, but also in economic policy, in economic terms: Because what you're doing is to park intellectual capital in Austria in any loops where these people never come out! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the one hand, it is an individual problem for those concerned because they do not only have to pay tuition fees, but also do not have work much longer, that is, it has to be taken care of, mostly because of their parents, that they will receive them, or they have to go to work in the meantime. This is a problem for people personally and for their educational opportunities! On the other hand, it is also a problem of the economy if these people study so much longer. Austria, as you already know, has a very high cost of higher education in the OECD comparison, which is related to the duration of the studies – but they are now extending them even further, which means that the cost of higher education studies is increasing even more – but the resources they could actually gain from it in the form of academics lie. We have a very low academic and academic rate, which will continue to decline with your measures and with your savings measures. This is primarily true of women, but not just of women. There is also a lack of resources that we in Austria would urgently need. Overall, the educational expectations of our children and young people are well below the OECD average, which also makes nothing good for both education policy and the economic situation! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this context, I would like to return to the discussion on where the money is taken for the so-called emergency programme of the universities. – You, Mrs Minister, say: € 68 million would be taken from the research budget by the Council for Research and Technology Development. Of course, the University of Education and Research is responsible. And very superficially, it could be said that research funds will be shifted from the Council towards universities. – But that’s very superficial! What you're really doing here is turning funds that were intended for investments in the future, for research projects, into the basic business of universities. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: For laboratories!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But no!]] Do you know what I think about that? This is exactly the same as – because we were already in agriculture today – if you are laboring, with your last money, buying seeds – and we have tried very hard to invest in research and development money; I agree that you have put a lot in there! - But then, what are you doing? – Instead of sowing this and making a future investment, eat the seed! They just push it into the basic supply. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Wrong! Wrong!]] And investment in the future remains on track! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Your education and university policy is not an investment in the future at all – and that, I think, is very beautiful in this example. It's all going to be put in the basic supply. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's the base! The research base!]] - Yeah, that's the base. But please, you will have to provide a base once! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is tax money!]] Or do you no longer see this as a public order that a basis for the universities...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4801	Mrs. Colleague! Their speaking time has expired, but the light does not shine. [[Abg. Sburny: You didn't show me that!]] - I saw that, yes!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4828	If you allow me to make my closing remarks: You don't invest anything, but you're just going to secure it – and that's bad! – basic care. They do not invest in the future, but rather a mortgage on the future. And if you don't make Austria the absolute final light in the OECD... – Yes, model country! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Before Finland! In front of Germany!]] This reminds me of brainwashing slowly. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No! In front of Finland!]] [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: (with the fingertips of her right hand pointing to her right ear) hear!]] – Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, I assume that such hand movements are not common for you either! If you do not want to reach the end of OECD countries, you need urgent action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4897	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4916	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5063	The following templates have also been received: Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European Organization for Nuclear Research, 665 of the Supplements; and Agreements on audiovisual Community productions between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Canada, including installations, 666 of the Supplements. After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from the assignment of these items to committees and to take them into account when drawing up the agendas of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. That is why we are doing so. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5099	Deputies Ing. Gartlehner, ladies and gentlemen, requested urgent consideration of the written question 2248/J by Dr Josef Cap, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning the waste of tax resources and the demise of state assets, which was put into the agenda before the entry into force. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5124	It is proposed that the debates on points 5 and 6 and 7 and 8 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. That is why we are doing so. We are now going into the decided agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5148	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 140 minutes, Free 96 as well as Green 104 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. That is why we are doing so. 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (649, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act 1975, the Criminal Enforcement Act, the Federal Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of Criminal Crimes against the Safety of Civil Aviation, the Waffengesetz, the Federal Budget, the Bundesmuseen-Law 2002, the Bundesforsteen-Law 1996, the Pensions Act 1965, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the Special Support Act, the Aliens Employment Act, the Labour Market Service Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Workers' Chamber Act 1992, the Family Carrier Law 1967, the Federal Carriers Act, the Federal Social Office Act, the Federal Disability Act, the gambling Act, the Federal Sport Promotion Act, the Old Load Reorganisation Act and the Environmental Promotion Act, and regulations on the sale of federal shares in the Gemebentbaugesellschaft mbH Villach and in the-Murboden Gesellschaft m.b.H. (Legal Act 2005) (657 p.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5184	We now reach 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Matznetter spoke. His welcome time is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5211	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Obviously, the government groups did not agree in the nightly negotiations and even now in the morning, but an agreement went to the media yesterday, and this is incredible from the way it works: ÖVP and FPÖ agree to reduce the contributions to a legal mandate, to a public law agency representing the interests of millions of workers in the country! [[Call the ÖVP:No! Wrong!]] It agrees, without even talking to them, without allowing them to make even a statement – in reality, because you treat this state almost as Ludwig XIV, according to the motto: L’état c’est moi! – I am the state; it belongs to me! It is dealt with in a political way. They want to punish voters for being – consciously! – your political groups have not given the majority in the last Chamber of Workers' Elections and in the growth of Social Democracy. [[Abg. Oils: Yes! Yes!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At this point, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that it is unique in the Second Republic that funding – one-sided, without consultation, without negotiation – is involved. But how it is handled is also very interesting! It is true that not about the width of the contributions – no! – it is going to be at the highest contribution base, i.e. justament for that small part of the workers – unfortunately far too few in the country! – which deserves beyond €3,450, a cover is drawn in. [[Abg. Ellmauer: We now have budget-accompanied laws!]] And with that, we are already in the way of the policy of ÖVP and FPÖ: You don’t care about people with their needs, it’s exclusively your client’s policy for either people with the same income category as the political representatives of the political groups or those who in this area only enjoy the maximum “I, I,!” of an elbow society. The fact that the Chambers of Workers who point these things out objectively and objectively is a problem for this government is clear! But this your game, which you want with the reduction of the financial resources, is easy to see. On this occasion, let me appeal to the representatives of other chambers: Entrepreneurs would be happy if their contributions amounted to only 0.5 percent of their profits, possibly with the maximum contribution base at the Chamber of Commerce – because the members of the World Cup would pay a fraction of what they pay today! They have no upper limit for various chamber envelopes, there is no upper limit for the service provider's surcharge, there is no upper limit for the sales-dependent chamber envelope! There are a number of other chambers that make significantly more and significantly higher contributions, but onlyament one is at the focus of this government – one because it represents workers! [[Abg. Scheibner: Posts are lowered!]] And that's typical for you! I come to the other parts: Health package. There is a health package on the table, which is actually being negotiated somewhere outside of this house, where it actually belonged, behind upholstered doors. There is a single problem: As part of the financial compensatory negotiations, three party representatives have clearly agreed that a minimum of €305 million is necessary. What does the ÖVP want? – In these 305 million, there must be a health tax in the form of an increase in the prescription fees, and there must be an increase in the daily allowance of the hospitals. That's the only thing you get stuck to, although there's a much easier solution: Let us raise the maximum contribution base! In the Committee on Budgets, we discussed this very proposal with the Minister for Finance, but the increase in the maximum contribution base by €450, which would cost those who were above just €17, €17, which would be just €8 per month after tax deposit, is supposedly not reasonable. But 8 € is exactly the amount for, so far, a hospital day! – They believe that, in the event of a hospital stay of a senior or a senior of four days, this €8 must be applied, but at the same time, according to these government fractions, it must not be possible that those who can afford it more easily – among which we fall 183 MPs, but also the dear Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany – to pay perhaps €8 per month more. Shame on it! That would be a just form of financing! And that would be a contribution that would easily solve the problems here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let's stay with what threatens us further: This financial package has a Stability Pact. If one calculates the budget deficit down in the federal government from 2.3 to 0.75 percent in three years, while at the same time increasing the surplus of the countries from 0.6 to 0.75 percent, then it is easy to calculate that, including the 305 million of the need for consolidation, from half a billion euros to 4,68 billion euros in 2008, in total, more than € 9 billion! And with the method used by the government parties so far, that would mean for the Austrians that further health taxes, increases in fees, contributions and tax increases will come. That's the wrong way! And the stop signal must be set at the next elections! I wish Austria: another government that does not continue this path! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5306	The next speaker is Mr Auer. His welcome time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5324	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A small addition to my previous speaker, to Mr Matznetter: He said that the financial compensation package with the health package had been negotiated behind thick upholstered doors. I only draw his attention to the fact that the representatives of his party were there too. Our representatives are here. What your representatives, ladies and gentlemen – chiefs, knights, damages are not exactly lightweights in your group – have said to that, that likes You remember yourself again. I'm saving it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In a remarkable interview in the news recently, a well-recognised business expert, a successful businessman in Austria – he was once the SPÖ's Finance Minister – said Dr. Hannes Androsch: Entrepreneurs are important, not neglecters. – Ladies and gentlemen! Entrepreneurs are important, not neglecters! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The biggest mistake is that this industrialist, whom I really appreciate, said not to do anything, is to refrain from doing anything. If we take this point seriously, ladies and gentlemen - I suppose you, too, are taking your economic captains, who are very strange with you - then one must say that this government is making a successful budget policy. This government does not abandon the renovation, it does make renovation. This government has made a remarkable tax reform. This government is in the process of implementing a pension scheme to ensure the future of the young generation. One could continue the list of successes: Labour market policy, voest-privatisation. Ladies and gentlemen! Recently there was a great event on the part of SPÖ: “ Hot giant” in the voestalpine is awakened.” 5,000 visitors were there! The highly valued scientist Broukal had the moderation due to his previous professional experience. One has praised in the highest tones how great the Voest is on the way. Yeah, I say she's great on the way! Yes, I say she saves jobs, but what was to be heard from this side a year ago? – The world's downfall is coming, the Russians are coming, it's getting worse, the jobs are at risk. Today, you rejoice at what this government has begun to privatize. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. – Let’s be a bit realistic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. What a terrible thing!]] My favorite booklet is the “Economic and Social Statistic Bagbook” of the Chamber of Workers. [[Abg. Brosz: This is the songbook!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This isn't my songbook. The High Song on this institution, which is absolutely necessary, is always sung by the left-wing group. Therefore, the objective figures and facts should also be quoted from this booklet. We are in the upper league with regard to the employment rate in Europe. We are top riders in terms of the low inflation rate. We are top-rankers in terms of low government debt compared to the European Union. We are on the road with 1.9 percent budget deficit, ladies and gentlemen! You can compare this data with those from countries governed by similar parties. Ladies and gentlemen! This government has modernised many areas, leading many ways to secure the future accordingly. You don't have to be bright to say that the budget renewal would be a foreign word, red would continue or would be red-green in corresponding leadership position. The tax reform would not exist to this extent, for the Greens are too large this tax reform, the SPÖ too little, that is, there would be a mini-mini reform. Originally, however, it was also thought that the size was too large. Ladies and gentlemen! The privatisation of some businesses would not be possible and therefore would not be the freedom for new employment. The economic concept of Mr Matznetter is there? – Can you still say that or announce it? It has been changed inadvertently. Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ, so one could say in alternation of colleague Androsch, is a party that does not do anything but is the great neglecter. This is too little. It means again and again: “Please wait,” not so, not today, not in this kind, not so fast, but different. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already clear, for changes, for new ways one needs political courage, one also needs the strength to do so. The reality and the facts are being suppressed, that is to say, nothing is going to be solved. No sites are secured, no investments are triggered. One thing is also true: Anyone who does a lot can also make some mistake. That's quite admitted. Maybe we've made some mistake too. Yes, we made a mistake in the 2003 budget accompanying law. This time we have solved the problem perfectly, I believe, by presenting a very narrow budget-accompaniment law with few amendments relating to the actual concerns. I should therefore also like to take the opportunity to thank all of my colleagues in the Committee on Budgets very much for the very fair debate and for trying to deal with these budgetary negotiations in an objective way. I am particularly grateful to the officials of the Ministry of Finance who, with this new budget document, have set a course for the future. It was made clearer, more clearly. I can also say a thank you to all the staff of Parliament, all the staff of the clubs who have helped to deal with the intense and long-term debate in a reasonable way. However, I would also like to thank Mr Finz, the Minister of Finance, who has presented us with a budget with the title to be underlined: ‘Resurrection by discharge’. Professor Lehner confirmed: This discharge budget will be much better than you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, represent it today, even if you still want to try so objectively. It ensures appropriate future security for Austria's businesses, for Austria's State budget and therefore stands for a positive development.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5394	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. His voluntary time limit is also 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5413	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate previous speaker, Committeeobmann Auer, you're doing this really great in this committee. Obviously, only now is what we have feared for a long time, namely that the Minister of Finance will contribute to further confusion with his wooded and wised budget speech. This presumption is close because you have now argued the blessings with the budget. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Did you not understand?]] The confusion should also be due to the fact that a government proposal to discuss a committee report should now be re-examined, i.e. a so-called budget accompanying law rather than the budget. However, this can obviously be apologised by the fact that it is actually a forest and meadow or herb and beet law. I would like to return at this point to certain processes in this legislative process in the House, in particular financial legislation. Assigned: It's not as bad as last year. In the budget accompanying law – and this should also be noted in this year's Minutes of Parliament – we had the unique process that a so-called pension insurance reform and the interception hunters and what I know everything under a relatively close here was 'hereingedonnert'. At the time of the Committee's debate, which concerned certain information on the question of interception, left much to be desired. [[Abg. Oils: Maybe it's still coming!]] I would just like to remind you of a bill on the largest procurement of the Republic – I know many can't hear it anymore – where you came out with four times. A draft law was presented to Parliament, which was necessary because the Federal Budget Act provided for it, which ultimately covered the sum of €2 billion, but which was referred to four times. This is the state of the legislative process here in the house, and it continues on many other points. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, I have to give a few examples of the progressive retention of financial legislation in my opinion. In this respect, one must defend oneself in good time, at least if one believes in making such observations. However, I should like to stick to this government template, which has set itself the goal, under one the law of criminal enforcement, the Waffengesetz, the Bundesmuseen-Law – perhaps we should discuss a little about Seiel –, the Federal Forest Act, the Pension Act, the unemployment insurance law, the Workers' Chamber Act – to which we will then refer – to the Family Tax Compensation Act, the Federal Disability Law, the Federal Sports Promotion Act, the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. But this was not even a third of the materials to be modified under one. I would also like to point out that the other speakers of my group will comment on the various issues and that we will also call for a separate vote, especially in the areas where we believe that we should be voting in favour. – So much ahead; but now on this raised depository, which is now also manifest in the Budget and Financial Committee. We have up-to-date negotiations – if we can call them negotiations at all – for financial compensation. The procedure is as follows: Signatures from different local authorities are placed under a document – so much so well. It must always be prenegotiated before anything is available, that's clear. As a result, those who have lowered the signature get into the hair or start with special class debt allocations. On this occasion, Parliamentarians should perhaps be interested in this, at least the members of the Budget Committee, so that the matter is negotiated, which should be dealt with earlier than later on in Parliament's budget-respective financial committee. In the current budgetary negotiations on this very issue, the opposition representatives – not just me – have referred to these circumstances. In the context of these debates, it turns out that the budget in these points was obviously supported deliberately – I cannot say otherwise, Mr Federal Minister. In fact, government applications with €100 million each were announced in addition for countries and communities, but this is not the basic problem, which is more of a question in the matter. The problem is that these applications have been withdrawn because there are some junkims that have arisen because of the political negotiations. The fact that, as a result, Parliament's budget and financial committee did not have a syllable of information – it's not about the signature problem – can be commented on as you want. This is a political matter, perhaps also outside Parliament. – Mr Mitterlehner nods well. You have pursued the process that I will now continue to describe, because it must be made public in plenary. These things were then addressed to the Group leader of the EIA, although all the previous speakers, even the Federal Minister and the national leaders in all the public have clearly demonstrated the junk of the financial compensation, which was not mine or ours, and the health reform. In the debate, it was pointed out that this could not be debated together, although it has to do with the budget, although it has been proved that it is logical to approach this matter that several 100 million are missing. If this is the state of financial legislation in this house, then good night. I have at least always believed that the budget and financial committee – and I have often experienced it this way – is being seriously discussed and that, at least with a certain degree of persistence that you will certainly not agree with us, even as a member of the opposition, you can partly light up the pay signal, although that is not our job. I do not feel that we are being paid for it, but we have the people here, according to the mandates. But you take that, you're used to it. But then, under the help of the government – and this is the evil thing – and under lubrication by other Members in this way, the government is making the wall, an abuse of the mandate, and this is going through everywhere in the house. The next two weeks we will have the opportunity to debate the safeguarding of parliamentarianism here in this House, where otherwise. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Be quieter! It is interesting that these Members now obviously feel particularly called to face the danger of losing their conscience in the wardrobe. This knowledge is very useful. Go inside! [[Abg. Hornek: You abuse Parliament as chairman!]] We will also make public those who act like the committees. You have a mandate that you do not have the right to be barrier guards of the Federal Government in order to “wake through” the removed trains. That's a misunderstanding. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am not at all referring at this point to the events in other committees which have not yet been fully known to you at all, for otherwise you would not judge them, but we will do so again. I am now referring myself to the Budget and Financial Committee and I note that the tragedy is so far advanced that there should be some concern for all here in the house. You refuse that, that's your thing. We will come back to it regularly, and you will not only have to listen to it, but you will also have to face it. It can no longer be that you withdraw in this way from your mandate responsibility. I just remember what my colleague Cordula Frieser has said. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I've always appreciated her!]] We will have the opportunity to record her statements in the “High House”, on the television broadcast of the same name, and I will ensure that they are brought literally, what Mr Frieser said. Your statement is the best proof of how laws are made here. She referred exactly to the tax and financial legislation, and this statement presents you with an destructive testimony. Go inside!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5518	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5536	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, I would also like to thank, on behalf of my group, for the documents we have presented, which we consider very helpful and useful. They have greatly facilitated our work and are a very good basis for each individual representative to find the most important information in the area. Thank you very much to the Ministry! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it was also a call for the Freedom Party not to put so many laws into the budget accompanying law, so that we have enough time available for the essential areas of budgetary treatment. It was remarkable, from my point of view, that the opposition parties in the committees were a little resistant, although they did not agree to this budget-accompaniment law, but gave these laws free passage. [[Abg. Silhavy: What does that mean that “have given free passage ”?]] This is already a little reason to suspect that the approach of the government parties to make few accompanying laws on the one hand, on the other hand, allows reasonable accompanying laws, such as the increase of the care allowance – by the way this is the first increase since 1995 – to provide for initiatives to boost the labour market, to increase sport promotion, to promote the environment, to increase the amount of money for the environment, to the labour market and to sell the federal shares in housing cooperatives. This brings me back to the subject, and my previous speakers have gone into an area that is not directly related to the budget accompanying law. If I look at the report, especially the minority report on the budget accompanying law which the SPÖ has advocated, I feel a little like Austria has to put aside a Commissioner, because our state finances and economic development and unemployment figures are so disastrous. [[Abg. Silhavy: Unfortunately!]] I can read to you something that sounds very interesting: Since the last decade, a strategic change in Austria's politics has made it a European pre-reform country. This policy change has been necessary in order to eliminate existing imbalances for a long time, to promote growth potential of the economy and competitiveness. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the content of a report from the International Monetary Fund, which approves Austria as one of the most stable countries in the European Community and is leading when it comes to pursuing the Lisbon objectives. So if you are trying to qualify Austria for the government's work, I have to say, this is past the real facts. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another point that you are also referring to in this minority report is that we have increased public debt, for example, to an extent that is not known in any other European country. - That's total nonsense! In its autumn forecast, the European Commission has found that Austria's level of public debt is 63.7% compared to gross domestic product and that in 1996 – only for comparison – the level of debt at the border was 70 percent. The tax rate will be 41.7% in the coming year, 44.4% in 1999. The fact that we are already at the 40 per cent limit on the tax and tax rate when we add the family benefits and the kin- of the money, I would just like to keep on the brink. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The deterioration of Austrian economic and financial policies is therefore an opposition marotte which does not correspond to reality. Austria has a leading position among the European states. All key economic key data show Austria as one of the three best economic and labour locations: As far as the unemployment rate is concerned, we are about equal to 4.3 percent with Cyprus. With 1.9 percent, we have one of the lowest inflation rates. The growth of 1.7 percent is significantly higher than the euro area, and the company start-ups of 30 000 businesses, but also the record of direct investment, i.e. investments by foreign companies in Austria, confirm that we are taking a good course for an internationally competitive economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The new tax reform 2005 will accelerate this growth, will again lead Austria to a good course, to a reasonable growth rate. I am convinced that we are convinced that this great discharge of €3 billion will bring more growth, more employment and more prosperity.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5602	Now, Mr. Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5621	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The 2005 Budgetary Accompanying Act is under discussion. I would just like to point out at this point that, as a Federal Government, we were very keen to take seriously the criticism of the House of Justice of the budget accompanying law of last year. Mr Kogler said that this would have been a unique process. Ladies and gentlemen! We've responded. We have presented a very slim budget-accompanied law consisting of 25 articles – contrary to last year, there were 96 articles – which are exclusively related to the Federal Finance Act draft 2005. That, I believe, underlines our financial and budgetary policy line, so we take your criticism seriously, and I think, even in the light of the Committee debates, it is a quite successful throw for a budget accompanying law. Mr Kogler spoke of a ‘one-time procedure’. I don't want to let that go. Without me wanting to weigh this one bad with the other, but, Mr Kogler, Mr Kogler: We know, of course, that the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act consisted, for example, of 98 articles, we know that in 1997 there were not one but two budget-accompanied laws. You can probably recall the years when there were structural adjustment laws on the one hand and then also social structural adjustment laws on the other, because the structural adjustment laws themselves were so extensive that they did not want to include the changes in social legislation. I would like to acknowledge that the Federal Government is open to proposals on how to improve it, and that this budget accompanying law is proof of how to implement it in a slim way and deals with precisely those materials that are directly related to the BFG. Ladies and gentlemen! If, of course, I cannot say so, the state of financial legislation is not acceptable if, in connection with the financial compensation, Member Kogler speaks of a “reserving of the legislation” when the financial compensation has been referred to in itself by several of my previous speakers, then you will allow me to say a few words on the financial compensation and on what has been presented on the budget! Ladies and gentlemen! The financial compensatory negotiations have taken place against a difficult background, because we have decided to implement a very substantial relief in Austria for workers on the one hand, for the economy, on the other hand, which on the other hand causes a discharge for taxpayers, on the other hand, problems for local authorities as regards financing. This means that both the municipalities as well as the cities, as well as the countries, as well as the federal government are struggling because they lack €3 billion on the revenue side. That is why it is difficult to find a basis for these financial compensatory negotiations! We then agreed on a common package, with the chairmanship of the leading country of Vienna, which has negotiated here; the chairman of the national headquarters conference Mayor Häupl commissioned Vice-Chairman Rieder to negotiate with us, the chairman of the city government Michael Häupl has commissioned Heinz to negotiate damage with us. Mr Matznetter spoke of the fact that we do not take people and their needs seriously that we would not be interested in this, he spoke of the “disease tax”. – Ladies and gentlemen! I simply ask that you remain serious, that you remain objective and that you recognize that financial compensation partners have done nothing but try to secure the sustainable financing of the health system. And this is a good investment in the health of our people, which is a good investment in the high quality of the health system in Austria. This is a common consensus between the financial compensatory partners, and I represent this consensus, I stand by it, and this House should also support it. That's my request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter, as you have already spoken in the Committee on this matter and have said it again today, I would like to inform the House that, after the agreement of the financial compensatory partners, we have tied up a good package, a package which also includes several structural reforms. As an example, I can cite the funding of hospitals. Not only have we said that we need more money on the revenue side, but also the countries have said from the outset: If you don't want us to reduce health benefits, we also need additional revenue. We said: Okay, but we will only be able to represent a package of this kind together if every euro on the revenue side, which is to be added, is accompanied by at least € 1 on the expenditure side by expenditure reduction or cost reduction and if we also manage to implement the long-term structural reform in health care. Ladies and gentlemen! You see what is now on the table: not only a package of revenue, but also a package of expenditure reduction, and the Minister of Health has succeeded in achieving, following the consensus on financial compensation, that the biggest health reform that has taken place in recent years has been negotiated; essential structural elements with the Article-15a health care agreement. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What?]] [[Abg. Oil: Who? Where?]] I would like to thank Maria Rauch-Kallat and the financial compensation partners for the fact that these structural reforms in the health sector are being addressed and taken seriously! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That means... – Sit down [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are already a victim of your government propaganda!]] [[Abg. Oillingers: your own propaganda!]] Mr Kogler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Look at what came out of it! Read the score on the 15a agreement, there are structural elements that have not existed in Austria in recent years! [[Abg. Oellinger: bureaucracy, that's what you're looking for!]] I believe that this is an essential progress that we have achieved together with the financial compensatory partners and the national representatives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Hospital financing, as I said, is a point. Second point: Administrative reform II. We confess that we want to reduce expenditure, that we need to save so that we can take the next step in the discharge. Third: small municipalities, weak communities. We have had many debates here in the House, we have taken the issue up, have taken it seriously, have for the first time achieved an exit from the graduated population key in consensus with the financial compensatory partners, thus creating a very important step towards strengthening the financial strength of small communities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The fourth point, ladies and gentlemen, is that there is a single key to the division of Community taxes. Fifth point: small schools in rural areas. We said: Each student has to be relinquished accordingly. The special pedagogical need, also in the city of Vienna, must be addressed accordingly. Therefore: 12 million € in addition to these areas. I just want to tell you: We didn't make it easy. We have negotiated for months, needed more than ten rounds of negotiations to reach a consensus. We then – in the good tradition of Austrian parliamentarianism, as I say – as a negotiating partner for the financial compensation, the Stability Pact and the funding of hospitals, we inform the Federal Chancellor, the Vice Chancellor and Alfred Gusenbauer as party chairman of the Social Democracy about the outcome and request that this be carried by all here in the House. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Then put it before you!]] That is why I must at least tell you that it is a great personal disappointment for me if all those who are reported about what this result looks like – because they know that a financial compensation is not any question of party policy, but only about €60 billion of revenue per year in the next four years, that is, more than €250 billion in total, and the distribution of the financial mass in Austria to the Federal Republic, countries, cities and communities, because they know that the financial compensation with the Stability Pact also regulates the Austrian commitments in the European Stability and Growth Pact, and because it should be our concern to all of us to finance the health system in a sustainable manner – then say: [[Abg. May. Kogler: Is a federal law, and you don't submit anything!]] I'm not interested in government policy, I'm not interested in using commitments! I'm interested in party politics, I don't remember using it any more! – I reject such a policy! It does not serve Austria, but it harms Austria because it brings instability because it brings uncertainty. No one can want that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm allowed to continue: Budgetary Support Act. I have already said that, as honourable Member Kogler has said, we do not have a “observance of legislation” but the following situation, Mr Deputies – I just mention four examples –: Amendment of the Federal Budget Act to Article 7 of the Act on Budgetary Support: It has never – and I thank honourable Members Auer, who have also emphasized this as committee chairman – given the Federal Finance Act as a material for Members as such, as early as this, the budget report, the subtables, the work aids, the explanations and the federal proposal itself. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Go, please!]] All materials have never been made available as early as that – that is, the day before the budget speech. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Just because you distribute colorful booklets, you can still give an answer in the Committee!]] Mr Kogler! I cannot resist it, nor can I leave it alone, if you say that we have deliberately suspended it, and thus try to discuss the “observance of legislation”. I would have expected to be serious and factual. We discussed this in the committee, we spoke out in committee, and I think we have also reached an understanding there. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The government groups have withdrawn the request!]] I could tell you in committee: After it has not been ensured at the moment whether the consensus reached by the financial compensatory partners has reached beyond the political groups and that of my knowledge for the first time in history – whether or not the packed financial compensation will be implemented in the House, because a group that has always contributed to the financial compensation says: It is not my duty, as Minister of Finance, to present the amendments to the budget, as an impact of the financial compensatory pact, to the House only if I know that, with the government proposal or the political groups with an own-initiative proposal here in the House, we are applying for the financial compensation as it has been negotiated. This has not yet happened – therefore there is no retention of the legislation! We have prepared the proposals, you know them, and they will, of course, be submitted immediately as soon as there is consensus on how and when this financial compensation will be brought into the House. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Member of Parliament, who is responsible for this, has said that things have nothing to do with each other! The opposite of that you have to explain to me!]] I would ask you to take note of this. It is extremely important to us that I stand by it, I am very concerned that legislation in the financial field, in the budget area, is exemplary. I would have expected you to mention positively, too: Budgetary report, subtables, work aids, explanations, everything earlier than ever, more clearly than ever, more informative than ever. – This would have deserved recognition by an opposition group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Three short points, ladies and gentlemen. I've already said it's a slender budget-accompaniment law. Take a look at what is included, for example: Federal Sports Promotion – an essential step has been achieved here. State Secretary Schweitzer, Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, we achieve that the special sport promotion with Articles 22 and 23 of the Budgetary Accompanying Act will be increased to at least € 40 million, probably even significantly above. We will make available uncovered corresponding amounts for special sports promotion as a share of the proceeds from lottery revenue, and that is really a big leap in the special sports promotion and thus an important success of this budget accompanying law. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you look, ladies and gentlemen, at Article 12 of the Budgetary Accompanying Act, where the labour market policy and the financing laws are concerned, then you have to recognize that we have managed, among other things, to provide €1.5 billion, i.e. € 1,500 million, for active and activating labour market policies, as we have done in recent years. This is almost twice as much as in 1999. We invest a total of €4.5 billion in the labour market in 2005, because it is extremely important to us to turn the labour market because it is important not only to increase employment but to reduce unemployment. We as the Federal Government have also proved this when you think of the apprenticeship initiative: 800 apprentices more in the federal administration, negotiations with the countries and communities, plus 1 000 apprentices in the countries and communities. That means more than 1,800 apprentices on the initiative of the Federal Chancellor alone in the public field! This shows that unemployment is fought by us in a targeted way. Every additional job is important, ladies and gentlemen, that is our goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Why do the numbers rise? Why do we have more and more unemployed people?]] Because, as you know, the employment of God is increasing because we also had record employment in Austria last month and because we still have the effects of three years of economic degradation. [[Abg. Forbidden: three years ago!]] I think we should see positive: second lowest unemployment in the youth sector of 25 countries in Europe, third lowest unemployment in 25 countries in Europe. I'll give you the right, we need to get even better. I'm not satisfied with that, we're fighting for every single job. Ladies and gentlemen, we have joined forces in economic recovery packages, in growth and in location packages, we have introduced a 1 000€ training premium together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] We are prepared to continue a good common path for the labour market, because we have a very, very big concern, and you can believe that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Article 19 as the last example, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress this because there is so much discussion about social justice in the context of this federal government. Article 19 regulates the amendment of the Federal Insurance Act. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We promised it in the 2003 government agreement – and we kept it. The first adjustment of the care allowance since 1995 is made by us, a necessary valorization, an increase in the care allowance... [[Abg. May. Lapp: This is what the accident pensioners pay!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to engage in a party-political dispute in connection with the care allowance, but I tell you the following: ==References====External links== In March 2002, Member Gusenbauer, the clubman of your group, said that the introduction of the care allowance in 1993 was economically wrong. If you want, I will also read to you what Mr Hesoun has said about this as a replica of Mr Gusenbauer. I can only tell you: The increase of the care allowance is important to us, it is promised and kept. For the first time since 1995, we valorize the care money and take additional costs of € 29.3 million in purchase. An important impulse for the needy people in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this budget-accompanied law is, first of all, a slim law and, secondly, a good throw that underlines our budgetary policy, our financial policy; a policy that has always said: first priority: balanced budget over the economic cycle; second priority: Lower taxes and taxes permanently – in 2006 we reached a tax rate of 40.6 percent, so low it has not been for more than ten years – and third point: more growth for Austria. I think that the 2005 budget is tangible, the budget accompanying law has been well managed, and the tax reform brings the necessary relief. I hope you all can agree to this budget accompanying law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5916	The honourable Member is hereby informed of the matter. Darabos. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e5934	Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr Auer, you quoted Androsch. I should also like to begin by quoting Androsch, the Minister for Finance. Androsch said a few days ago: Grasser proceeds according to the motto “Frequentness prevails. ” It should not be contradicted that threat in dealing with facts. Androsch also said: What is happening here in Austria with the highest tax burden, record unemployment and neglect of future expenditure, for which the hunger of universities is an example, is scandalous. Grasser is making a purely procyclic budget policy that has strengthened recession in recent years. Androsch recommends a crash course in economics to the Minister of Finance. - Quote. I think that's a more appropriate quote than that you used. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, if you already want to break a general economic policy debate in the budget accompanying law, I would like to include this feud glove and write to you in the master book: The refusal of reality that you are doing here has become almost unbearable. You have to account for the highest tax and tax rate in the Second Republic, the highest debt policy in the Second Republic, you think badly of Austrian businesses – I would like to come later. They are responsible for 40 new loads at the expense of small and medium-sized earners and at the expense of pensioners. They are responsible for the highest unemployment in the Second Republic – 50,000 unemployed more since 2000, 50,000 more, that is 50,000 fates! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: How many more employees?]] They have come to the conclusion when investing in the EU. And if you're talking about growth, I can tell you: Austria's growth between 1996 and 2000, i.e. among Social Democratic Finance Ministers, plus 8 per cent compared to the EU average, is 13 per cent lower than the EU average from 2001 to 2003. That's a success story? I don't think so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I could continue under the motto: “Many promised, nothing kept!” They have promised to set up an economic platform in connection with the financing of Eurofighters. They promised a tax reform, which means 1 000 € reduction per employee, but a mini-tax reform has come out. And one week before the 2002 election, you have resigned a pension reform, and now we have the highest pension reduction action in the Second Republic, which you have to answer together with the Federal Chancellor. Untruth has been raised among you to the political category. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because you're the one have addressed the field of health reform: The countries and communities have partly helped you out of the patch, they finance your deficit by producing surpluses. What you have presented here, this package, to which you now call for the SPÖ's approval, is unsocial and even reinforces the social situation in Austria. That is wishful thinking, the SPÖ will not agree! The SPÖ as opposition party has held its hand very far towards government and said: In financing the health package of € 305 million, the SPÖ says yes to € 240 million. Open is €65 million that you want to bring in about an increase in prescription fees and hospital fees, and we say no. I also explain to you why we say no. Do you know how high the recipe fee in 2001 was? – 3,27 €. You now want to raise it to €5 – a plus of 53 percent, 53 percent more for the recipe fee than in 2001! They want to increase hospital fees from €5.47 in 2001 to €10 – an increase of 83 per cent, 83 per cent higher costs for pensioners, for small earners, for middle-earners who have to be in the hospital – they do not go there voluntarily. I can tell you, we figured this out exactly. An example: A pensioner with a pension of €830 will be charged by the government's burden policy since 2001 by €332 a year more if, for example, she has to go to the hospital for four weeks and can be written 62 recipes a year; this is not exaggerated, but assume according to the average. I say quite frankly to you: We are willing to carry these 65 million with you, but not at the expense of small and medium-sized earners, at the expense of many thousands of pensioners. You can beat that out of your head. Social democracy is not available for this non-social policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The last point I would like to address, because you have spoken about stability and truthfulness in politics: Yesterday, in the “Time in Picture 2” a statement was made by you, which you made a few weeks ago to the VA Tech. You said: We consider each takeover by Siemens or Kovats to be a hostile takeover together. After all the analyses I know – grassers – that simply the VA Tech does not fit Siemens and vice versa, because there are too many parallels, we have made it clear that we cannot imagine that. - Quote. Now you can imagine! This is not a question of economic policy, but of the question of honesty and confidence in politics. Change Within Weeks Here's your opinion. I think if you take your ego back a little bit, then you could also better realize that your budget policy is condemned to failure and one-sided client policy that is to be considered unfavorable by social weaknesses.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6001	The next item is the speech by Mr Ellmauer. Voluntary time limit: also 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6019	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The current budget accompanying law is based on simplicity, clarity and understanding. We have managed very well to keep the number of legislative changes as low as possible. [[Abg. Oils: He was good!]] This year's budget accompanying law only appears to have 25 legislative changes. Thank you very much to the officials of the Federal Ministry of Finance for the good and timely preparation of the documents. The 2005 budget presented by our Minister of Finance also testifies to the good work of our government in budgetary policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Look beyond the borders of Austria! Especially in the international Comparison can be seen in the budget of Austria. Within the EU, Austria continues to have one of the lowest deficit rates with 1.9 percent. And what is very important to me is that expenditure in the Federal estimates 2005 only rise half as much as the gross domestic product in comparison to the 2004 federal estimate. The criticisms of the opposition to the federal government's budgetary policy are neither valid nor comprehensible. This federal government has consolidated state finances and, with the largest tax reform in the Second Republic, has made the population and the economy more sustainable. Obviously, these achievements are not taken note of by the opposition, but by the relevant international institutions. For example, we have received great praise from the International Monetary Fund, but also from the OECD for our economic and budgetary policy and for the tax reform. Thanks to the responsible policy of our federal government, we can face the future positively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The success story of our country will continue, and Austria will continue to be in the forefront with its economic and environmental data as well as with regard to quality of life worldwide. So I fully agree with our Minister for Finance: Rising through discharge is the right way. [[Abg. Oils: Oh, oh, oh, that hurts!]] Ladies and gentlemen, On the current occasion, I would point out that there has never been the case in the Second Republic that a negotiated and packed financial compensation, signed by all four financial compensatory partners and jointly presented to the public, has been called into question, as is now being raised by the SPÖ and, in particular, by Mr Gusenbauer, who once again shines by absence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Here populist prevention policy is practised as a SPÖ line, which does not even frighten back from the desavowing of its own negotiators! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Some aspects of the budget accompanying law are particularly important to me. In the field of security, there will be further improvement of security controls at civil airports. It is planned that the preventive protection of passengers at civil airports will be improved by increased search, for example, of other people's luggage. Furthermore, the public security service bodies are authorized to prohibit access to a civil aircraft or to any other security area if they carry a weapon, war material, ammunition, shooting or explosives et cetera. The changes to the Foreign Employment Act are also particularly important to me. That's what it says: ‘For foreigners, the 1. by its foreign employer within the framework of a joint venture and on the basis of an operational training programme no longer than six months for the purpose of in-service training in a company with a head office in the Federal Republic of Germany or 2. within the framework of an internationally active group based on a qualified internal group training and training programme from... no longer than 50 weeks in the headquarters ‘to be sent to the federal territory, no grant or employment permit is required’. This is a further addition to the framework conditions for a more investment by foreign companies in Austria. These changes as well as group taxation facilitate the addition of main quarters, research centres et cetera from foreign companies to Austria. This means a further significant contribution to the attractive economic location in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Our rivers and lakes have the best water quality, which should remain the same. For the purpose of this continuity, the funding decided for the purpose of the settlement water economy is provided. In the years 2002 to 2008, their considerable cash value is €218 million, and in Schilling, this corresponds to a value of more than 3 billion annually. My group has been successful in continuing the policy of urban water management in order to be able to give the next generations an intact environment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In summary, it can be said: The Budgetary Accompanying Act testifies to a successful sustainable economic policy. That is why my group is happy to agree to this budget accompanying law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6103	Mrs Haidlmayr's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6121	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Minister of Finance, it is true, this time the care allowance will be increased, but only by 2 percent. And if you've calculated that, you might know how much that actually is for the individual. For 70 percent of care providers, this is an increase between €2.90 and €3.60 per month. [[Abg. Neudeck: Thank you, Minister!]] Minister! You really don't need to be proud of that! [[Abg. Neudeck: But it is far more than in recent years!]] This Federal Government has already promised us increases in care money since 2001, nothing has come of it. Today, there may be an inflation cover if it goes well, but more than that, Minister of Finance, it is simply not. You must not forget one thing either – just think of the last budget accompanying law. What did you do? They abolished the exemption for broadcasting and television, although the range of services provided specifically to people with hearing disabilities still does not correspond to the average European level. You've collected the money, but you haven't put any performance against it. Mr Finanzminister! The increase in the care allowance now available, take away the person concerned five or six times! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You take the money away from the person concerned by increasing the prescription fees. You take the care allowance away from the person concerned by increasing the fees during the hospital stay. Minister! For the people concerned, there will be only a large minus again next year, but they will not know how to balance it again. But it seems that this is not your problem, but it must be for each individual to make up for himself. Mr Finanzminister! The issue of accident pension taxation is still not completed in 2003. As you know, people who receive an accident pension pay their taxes for 2003. There is a small degree of hardness, but, Minister, it is so small that it is actually negligible. Therefore, there is absolutely no reason, Minister of Finance, for you to boast at the expense of disabled people in any form of what you have done positively. You have done nothing positive under the rule, but you draw people with disabilities, older people just as much money out of your pocket as everyone else! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you were serious about making any improvements for people with disabilities, why did you not introduce the negative tax that I and the Austrian disability movement have been demanding from you for years? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Very right!]] It simply doesn't matter if there are good means of free money, but people have so little income that they don't pay any taxes at all. They don't pay a free price! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you were honest and you really meant it in the interests of these people, you would have introduced the negative tax, just as this negative tax is right in many other areas. Mr Minister, I will not tire of reminding you again and again: We too are entitled to the negative tax! We all, the disabled people who have such low incomes that they are able to deduct their extraordinary taxes, their prescription fees and so on, because they are not taxed on account of their income. Therefore, once again the request to you, on behalf of the people with disabilities: Create It is also a negative tax for us, because that would be a way of really supporting each individual. But you don't want to create this opportunity. Mr Minister, there is absolutely no reason for you to boast. There's nothing you can boast about, but there's a lot to improve, but you just don't want to.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6203	The next speaker was Mr Walch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6221	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To colleague Matznetter – he is not inside –: It is a bit surprising that he is so excited about the freezing of the Chamber of Workers. He's a professional tax advisor, and I think he knows exactly that everything needs to be saved – or he gets a money as a vice from the SPÖ somewhere and he's afraid they'll get less now. So I don't quite understand. But now to the budget accompanying law. Although ÖVP and FPÖ have taken over the government with a huge debt, at a time when there are economic difficulties across Europe, we are constantly able to make a budget that benefits the economy, the workers and many others. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am particularly pleased that, at the pressure of our State Secretary Karl Schweitzer, 40 million are specifically invested in federal sports promotion, because sport is a very important health care, as Karl Schweitzer always stresses, especially for the youth. In the event of the use of precautions, less money is needed for medical services or for the health system. Next very important point: A lot is really being done for active labour market policy – the Minister of Finance has already said it. The opposition, of course, makes this circumstance difficult, because it always wants to kill everything and make it worse. Over 4 billion will be invested in this area so that additional jobs can also be created. I am also not pleased with the unemployment figures, only one thing you always forget about the opposition, namely that 100 000 jobs have been created in Austria. You keep forgetting that. If I were to subtract this number now, we would actually be lying with our unemployment figures among those among SPÖ chancellors. But every unemployed person is too much, not a question. In order to increase employment, to give young people a chance to find an apprenticeship, the Federal Government has also come up with something. That is, 1 800 apprentices in addition have another chance in Austria to get an apprenticeship. The most important thing for me, however, is the 2005 tax reform; the first stage has already entered into force in 2004 and the largest tax reform of the Second Republic comes in 2005. You from the opposition can make them worse, as much as you want: Citizens will see in 2005 how much more money is left in their pockets. [[Contradict with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is important, because that is what is driving the economy accordingly. But that doesn't matter to you about the opposition anyway, because you are voting against everything without making your own proposals. But you can't help the SPÖ anymore. When the SPÖ was still in the government, it knew the unemployment figures as much as we did and there was a corresponding economic upturn – at that time it would have had to form reserves that could be used for bad times. We're used to it like this: Save in time, then you're in trouble! – You haven’t saved in time and of course have nothing in need either. What makes me particularly happy: Our Social Minister Herbert Haupt has achieved that the care allowance, which Dr. Gusenbauer called a wrong decision, will be increased by 2 percent by 1.1.2005. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And the disability billions are also secured for the next few years. This is employee policy, economic policy, youth policy – policy for the citizen in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6290	The next speaker was Mr Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6309	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that one should also talk about what is not contained in the budget accompanying law, namely that since the beginning of November the tariffs, especially as regards the East-Region Transport Association, have been increased once again by 7 percent. This will, of course, make public transport more and more unfinanceable for the commuters. And if there are newspaper reports such as “passenger tickets become even more expensive – 220 000 taxpayers have more to pay” – then I must say that these increases are actually equivalent to a salary reduction. People depend on public transport to go to work, and if they are increased by 7 percent, they are reduced by a decisive part of their salary. Mr. Federal Minister! It is also important to talk about what is not contained in the budget accompanying law, for example, about a resolution tabled by the Social Democrats on 14 May. In October 2004, it was called on to increase the amount of money to 42 cents per kilometer and to offset the enormous increase in the cost of transport within the Pendler's fee. These are things that directly affect the working people – but they are not actually included in the budget accompanying law. Mr. Federal Minister! If that continues in this consequence and the cost of trains is increasing, then of course fewer and fewer people will ride the trains, which in further consequence means that more cars are on the streets. I just remember the south highway, the tangent where we have traffic jams every day. That is to say, we should improve the supply of public transport accordingly, rather than increase tariffs by 7 percent. I think that is the wrong way, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, it also sets in motion a negative spiral that threatens to ruin slowly the exemplary public transport system that Austria once had, but unfortunately this government has no success in this area. This increase in tariffs by 7 per cent, which I have not had anything to say to you simply, was to be expected, because in this unfortunate reform of the Austrian Federal Railways, which took place last year, it was already clear that the rail use fee, Mr. Regler, is increased by 50 per cent. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: Good reform! Good reform!]] And of course it was to be expected that these costs will then be passed on to the customers. Paying it must be those people who have to go to work every day, which in the end corresponds to a reduction in pay, and that is less good. There are studies from both the Ministry of Transport and the Chamber of Labour, which we expect to see further cost increases in this area. We expect an increase of 20 percent by 2010 – at the expense of citizens who have to go to work from the rural areas to Vienna. But all of this is just the tip of the iceberg of 44 loads that this black and blue federal government has done to people since 2000. I only remember the transport sector: The price for the motorway vignette was almost doubled, the motor insurance tax increased by 51 percent, the mineral oil tax from 1.1.2004 by 1 cent per litre of petrol and by 2 cents per litre of diesel. The price of heating oil was increased by up to 2.9 percent. We are discussing a heating allowance for pensioners, but at the same time the Minister of Finance is paying much higher taxes in this area than before. Ladies and gentlemen! This budget is objectively a budget in the transport sector, which guarantees further burdens on Austrians and higher mobility costs. It damages the purchasing power and the economic location – we therefore reject the budget and also the budget accompanying laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6354	The next item is Mrs Lentsch's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6373	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I do not want to break the head of the opposition here, but it is no wonder that the Austrians in terms of finance do not trust you at all. First of all, you have criticized the zero deficit because you believe that we would cut our country apart. Believe me, I haven't found anyone in the meantime, no businessman and no private person who would have broken up! [[Abg. Oillinger: We already!]] [[Abg. Eder: The insolvencys are not known to you, gell?]] Now a budget deficit of 1.9 per cent is predicted for 2005, for the simple reason: because we are making a big tax reform, which ensures the economic location of Austria and also jobs. But even that's not the right opposition again. One thing is certain: That Minister of Finance cannot do the right thing about the opposition! The Greens say that the tax reform would be too big. The SPÖ says that this tax reform would be a mini-reform. Van der Bellen believes that it would be too much money in the consumption, and Häupl even means that one could save on family benefits. – We must first let this be broken down on the tongue, where we or this federal government are constantly accused of social cold. Perhaps the opposition should stop engaging in contradictions. It is noteworthy that this year the number of laws to be amended has fallen from 96 to 25 under the budget accompanying law. This is probably a sign that the reform work of this Federal Government is progressing. Much has already been done, the necessary changes are becoming less and less, and we not only feel this in the House, believe me, the Austrians also notice that outside! When you travel almost every day, visit events, you also feel that the citizens understand these reforms and carry them along. A great praise to the Minister for Finance, his State Secretary and the officials for the budget documents. The budget is clear, you will find everything, and anyone who wants knows what it is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Even there was again criticism in the Committee on Budgets, as Mrs Hagenhofer did not find the public schools in the documents. But that she might be looking at compulsory schools, she didn't come to this idea herself. Faith You're telling me: To be Minister of Finance at this opposition is a very difficult undertaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6428	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6447	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to address my regret directly to the Minister of Finance. [[Call the SPÖ: It's gone!]] He can almost hurt you if, for one time, he does not find out from the thickness or chewing of management language, marketing language and Orwell’s new language. If I imagine, Mr. Finanzminister – a pity he is not here – this division is using not only in Parliament but also in private circles, that is terrible! Mr Ellmauer is a really nice Member of the ÖVP, but he is trying to replicate what the Minister of Finance suggests: We're the best! We're the biggest! We're on our way, the number one, the great, the top! – You can’t listen to that anymore, and that’s what it is – please excuse me! – something under the dignity of members of the government that they stand down and act only more as propagandists. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You can still see it at the Minister of Finance. He sells himself, he sells his own business. But your job now is not necessarily to go out with the incense boiler and praise him Hosianna. Really not! As the Minister for Finance speaks in his private field, I do not know, but if it is to be feared, he does it there just as here in Parliament, then it does not look good. Minister for Finance, perhaps You really do make a re-training, but don't ask – and that's why I come to the topic – one of the AMS! I can only warn you about that. They are producing themselves, Mr. Finanzminister, and they say: Never before has so much been spent on activating measures, we have the best result in the Republic! – Look Take the courses! They don't look at them, but sometimes I look at what the situation looks like here. The quality of the curative measures at the AMS has clearly decreased for years. It can no longer be offered quality, it is only more targeted at quantity, on short courses. You read – no matter in which paper; it is not only the “Kronen Zeitung”, also the local media write about it –: Youths are sent to courses that are completely pointless for them. Still, it happens. The AMS can't do anything else either. This is not an accusation to the AMS, but an accusation to the policy, which is actually only more cynical in response to a particular crisis situation in the labour market. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] People should be kept on the move. The quality of the measures is totally irrelevant. That's the one point, and that's why I striped the AMS very briefly. However, I would like to say something more about what we are not actually negotiating here. My colleague Kogler has already pointed out: Where are the templates on what has been known to the public in the last few days, but what is being negotiated behind closed doors? Not in Parliament, not in the Federal Government, but somewhere between the national leaders, yesterday in a four-eye discussion between Mrs Haubner and Mr Schüssel, the great agreements of these days are achieved – or not. But here you come, Minister of State, and say: There are great structural elements in these results that have not yet been found! – Yes, I can sign the sentence as well: There are structural elements in the agreement on health reform which has not yet been reached! - Great. [[Abg. Head: Great!]] [[Abg. Head: Great!]] Thank you, wonderful! Forward: Top, number one! What has been created? A terrible structure, an absolutely unacceptable structure. Talk to the economic representatives! I hope they will tell you that, Mr Kopf. Or don't I hear anything from this side? Health Agency, Health Platforms, Health Platforms, Health Platforms, where one must consult with the other, third-party bodies, where they have to make the compromise – that is all more horrendous! But here goes the Minister of Finance and says: Great structural elements have been created! – This is the result of what you have negotiated behind locked doors?- Oh, my God! It can't be. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Budgetary Accompaniment Act contains passages in the Weapons Act. A provision on the psychological suitability of weapons is hereby deleted under certain conditions. What this has to do with the budget, you have to explain it to me first. I've seen what this has to do with the budget. It is not relevant in budgetary terms. So it has something to do with the budget and accompanies the law – exciting, isn't it? But the really crucial point or one of the key points is: Why don't you tell me what's going on with the ÖBB? There will be new appointments, but not only that, but there will be – after you have created a “great” structure that makes the ÖBB manoeuvrable for years out, which has not made the ÖBB future-friendly – because the board of directors or the political boards obviously do not know how to help otherwise, thousands of people will be sent to the early board. – Not relevant in the budget, Mr. Federal Minister? Not relevant? Even if it doesn't happen this year, when it's about to happen next year, isn't it relevant on the budget? I hear something from your side, except that you say: We don't want that!Unknown term type: "%s".? Do I hear something about how the company could operate ÖBB in the future, what specifications do you require from this company, which goals the company should meet? - Nothing! Do I hear from your side, Mr. Federal Minister, about the workers' chamber? What's going on? Interesting: Even behind closed doors, without being discussed here, the Chamber of Labour is removed when the maximum contribution base is planned to be increased. No one in Austria likes to pay taxes, but please allow me to ask a question – the colleague will listen –: The Chamber of Commerce also makes contributions, including on wage side costs, no matter how you titulate it. One, two or three envelopes will be removed. [[Abg. May. Scheucher-Pichler: Two!]] The Chamber of Commerce has the bags full of money, no matter what department or section you look into! The Chamber of Commerce has the bags full of money. There is no discussion about the fact that the contributions could easily be reduced, but at the Chamber of Workers it is very well discussed, colleague Ellmauer. [[Abg. Ellwall: Have already been lowered!]] I wonder if this is related to a somewhat uncomfortable attitude of the Chamber of Workers towards some government proposals. I guess that's the point! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You want an important institution... [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: lowered by 30 percent!]] Mr Mitterlehner, I am not here to challenge the Chamber of Commerce' contributions. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: They were lowered by 30 percent by law!]] Yes, but: From what status have you lowered? From such a high status, Mr Mitterlehner. [[making a corresponding hand motion]] But the Chamber of Labour has 0.5 percent for two million people. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Nevertheless, a good measure!]] 0.5 percent! We do not discuss the contributions here. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: lowered by 30 percent!]] Has it been discussed with you, Mr. Colleague? Do you agree with the reduction of the Chamber of Labour? Do you have anything to say? - Then say it! You have obviously not spoken to you as much as to all the other Members here in Parliament. [[Abg. Ellmauer: Have been lowered for a long time!]] In the end, however, you should decide, Mr Ellmauer. [[Abg. Ellmauer: The Chamber of Commerce has long lowered the contributions!]] You may then go out again with the holy water boiler and the incense and say: Great budgetary policy! – That could not have been it, Mr Ellmauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6660	Mr Mitterlehner referred to an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure: You've got two minutes. First of all, the case to be corrected and then the corrected one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6681	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger claimed that the Chamber of Commerce had the pockets full of money. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] All the organs and all the other groups, sections or whatever they are called, you have said. I notice: That is absolutely incorrect! We have not been able to compensate for the budget for three years and on a legal basis, which you have even taken into account in my knowledge, we have reduced our payments by 30 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This is not an actual correction!]] That corresponds to reality – and not to the polemics of your part!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6727	The next item is the speech by Mr Lichtenegger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6745	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to take a very brief look at the comments made by Mr Ollinger, who spoke of the quality of the AMS and the quality of the AMS courses. The AMS works, I think, especially in the youth sector very well. For the first time in Austria, youth unemployment has been falling, and I think that is an excellent result of the work of the AMS. Another thing: Mr Oellinger also said that he could no longer hear it if we said: We are good, we are on the move, we are first, we are second in Europe! – I believe that in all cases it sounds better than what we heard in the early days: We live in an emergency, everything is chaotic, herb and beet, and the universities are going badly! – That’s much better than the representation of the good that we achieve. I want to deal with the sports budget very briefly, because that is – I think – a historic budget, a historical event, you can say calmly, without it sound pathetic. Then: What have we achieved? What did we do? It is the first time that these 3 percent revenues from the Austrian lotteries, which are involved in Austrian sport, are no longer covered up. Up to now, 3 percent of Austrian lottery revenues have benefited from sports, up to about 36.7 million. Now it's like it's 3 percent actually, and there's no cover up. Of course, I would have liked to see all the parties in the context of the sport agree to this budget accompanying law, but unfortunately it is once again reserved for the government parties to actively promote sport to make an active sport policy for the first time. [[Abg. Oils: All right! Please!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The BSO has been trying for a long time, already with your colleagues, but this has not succeeded in recent years. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: But only on our request!]] We really do policy here for sport, politics for the clubs. There is the first time more money for innovative projects, there is more money for the roof associations and for professional associations. It is truly invested in structural measures because for the first time more money is available. We also invest in major events. Austria has a number of events to complete in the next few years, and we have the honour of bringing a very large number of major events to the stage in Austria. Among other things, air space monitoring is needed again, and we are very glad that it will be guaranteed. We invest – and I believe this is very important not only for performance sports, but also for broadband sports – also in more training for the trainers. In recent years, we have largely neglected this. However, the trainers are incredibly important for the young, incredibly important to present an interface from the club to the school, incredibly important for how many young people you can win for sports and keep in sports. Furthermore, the money is also used for preventive measures, so we are already a bit in health policy. It is an active precautionary policy that we are running here. The project “Fit for Austria” now really knows everyone. Here we really have a large budget framework at our disposal for the first time. This project has been very successful, for all ages, from “SportKids” to “Fit for 50 plus”. The Secretary of State is busy on his bus in Austria and informs people about their state of health or what they can do to improve what they can do in order to maintain their health in the long term. We have made sure that in the budget accompanying law the money needed for the measures mentioned is actually available. There is also a great honor this year. 2004 is the year of volunteers in sports. Without volunteers – you have to say that, as much as I am for professionalization in sports – sports really does not do it. We also want to thank you this year with a big gala. I think that'll be a great event. The associations with their officials, with their trainers, have an important social pedagogical task in Austria. They are an interface between sport and school – especially in times when we are constantly confronted with drug problems; unfortunately, we just had to hear something about this from Traiskirchen today. Sports can really contribute a bit to the fact that such things are less common, because sports can offer young people who are looking for tasks in their lives. I am very sorry that this budget-accompaniment law does not receive the approval of all parties. We will make a request today, according to which there will be more money for the umbrella organisations from 2007 onwards. I believe that a colleague will make a request for this, but unfortunately this one will probably not be given broad approval either. I'm very sorry because I think the sport should have earned it. We have been trying for some time to bring activity and excitement into Austrian sport, organized sports, broadband and health sports. We do, too, and I hope that in the future we will find even wider approval and that the budget will continue to go up, provided that – and for this we have provided the legal opportunity – that the gambling and the lotto and toto-society continue to increase their sales.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6801	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6820	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grasser benefits from the budget accompanying legislation on budget cosmetics, and for this he is really nothing too bad. Minister! They “sacrifice” non-profit housing companies, you “sacrifice” development companies in the Obersteiermark who have done excellent work, you exchange a one-time dividend of 100 million for the Federal Forests against the acquisition of pension obligations. – This is budget cosmetics, and on the other hand, we are totally opposed to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, Minister, the summit is that you are wasting Austrian nuclear industry. I figured this out. The three stakes of voestalpine, Böhler-Uddeholm and VA Tech were sold last year. In the meantime... 9 per cent, colleague! 9 per cent in the previous year! [[Abg. Großruck: Who sold the VA Tech? That was the red works council! The string! The SPÖ!]] 8. August! Read it! These parts alone – these three participation sales! – today will bring € 230 million more. – This is your policy of sluggishing, Minister! Now I come to the dramatic new case: This new case of VA Tech – the remaining 15 percent – is a new quality. This “quality” is the mark of this federal government! The Federal Government is leading the largest Austrian technology group to battle. This group is released for filleting. – On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, we must defend ourselves! [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] They weaken the ÖIAG law with regard to VA Tech: There are massive threats here, there is a weakening of the stock market, and there are thousands of jobs at risk. – This is the drama of the last two days in this context. Now there is a new “quality”, namely: It will suddenly be able to say no truth in this country. So yesterday, the renowned Director-General of Siemens Austria, Hochleitner, said: In one point I did not say quite the truth that concerns the interest in VA Tech! – Two months ago, public debate was held, and he said he had no interest. Now a renowned Director-General in Austria says that he did not say the truth in one point! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a dramatic increase in things towards a threat of democracy! Also Kovats said three weeks ago that he will not sell, he will remain a major shareholder. – If this prevails, then I see democracy in Austria at long last at risk! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Democracy at risk?]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Head.]] - Wait, I'll be right there! I'll be right there! Hochleitner also said that he had previously agreed to the entire deal with important representatives of Austrian politics. There are indications that the Federal Chancellery has been intervened in this regard in the Takeover Commission. If that is the case, then you really have to ask yourself what republic we are living in, and it is really all to do to act against it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Another index: In this chaotic environment, in this legal and political chaotic environment, Kovats presented the Republic and the ÖIAG and thus Minister of Finance Grasser. It won €80 million within one and a half years – that is 1 billion schilling – with VA tech shares on the stock exchange, and at the same time ÖIAG lost €40 million. – So, at the expense of Austrian taxpayers, this is at the expense of Austrian jobs! Ladies and gentlemen! I really wanted to make it clear what is going on in this Republic. One more point: One cannot, of course, abandon the poor workers, the workers at these locations who really have to worry about their daily job; especially in Weiz. While the companies – the large companies; I say: few large companies – are swimming in the money through the tax benefits of this federal government, thousands of people are worried about their jobs no longer being employed. Therefore, we call on the Federal Government to keep ÖIAG its share of the VA Tech and to support a 10% employee foundation immediately so that an Austrian core shareholder can remain here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6902	The next item is the speech by Mr Kurzbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6920	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a model country of a successful economic and budgetary policy. Mr Oellinger will now ask how I actually come to this statement, and he will say again that we are going to pay tribute. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Oellinger, you also meant: Look Take the courses! – I know you meant the AMS courses. I'm saying, Look Take your course – the stock prices of the ATX! [[Abg. Oillingers: Check out the courses a year before!]] For example, the ATX course October 2002: 1 000, the ATX course at the beginning of November 2004 – you hear right! – 2 175. – That is, ladies and gentlemen, our companies, the Austrian companies, have become twice as much worth it at this time, they recorded an increase of 117 percent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call the SPÖ:And what about the unemployed?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The motto “resurrection through discharge” continues in the 2005 budget and is based on four pillars: This is first of all the balanced budget over the economic cycle. An example: The average budget deficit from 1977 to 1999 – 22 years! – was minus 3.1 percent; from the year 2000 – since the new Federal Government – including the 2005 estimate, it was 0.95 percent. – The comparison makes us safe, valued ladies and gentlemen! Or: the tax rate – a reduction to 41.7 percent. Or – the third pillar – the increase of funds for future investment. There's also a number: The total of what has been invested in research and development is more than twice as high as in 1994. At that time it was around 2.5 billion in the budget, in 2004 it was 5.3 billion. Finally, the fourth pillar: the continuation of the reform in public administration. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Council of Ministers decided in 2002 to introduce a uniform cost and performance account in all the federal central offices, and after two years of probation, this bill now decides to introduce uniform cost and performance accounts in all the federal central offices. These results are, of course, particularly important in order to provide, on the one hand, private, on the other hand cross-sectoral information, in order to build upon them a cost-bearing account. This is mainly about budget and personnel controlling, performance controlling, key figures comparisons, benchmarking, evaluations – so many, many possibilities with the aim of providing up-to-date and structured information on budget management, i.e. information and foundations for streamlining the organisational structures, improving the quality of standards and task planning while reducing the establishment plan. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Only this legislative matter ensures that the administrative reform is carried on successfully. Another area of this budget accompanying law concerns the amendment of the Federal Forest Act. In 1997, the Austrian Federal Forest AG was established. This is essentially about pension expectations. The majority of these pension expectations were already introduced into the new collective contract in 1999 due to the transfer of most former Federal Forest employees, or were ultimately found in 2000 under a social plan. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a clear arrangement between the federal government on the one hand and Austrian Federal Forest AG on the other hand as regards the remaining pension obligations by the federal government taking over the pension insurances borne by the company. The advantage is that the division of pension law enforcement competence is eliminated. In return, the Austrian Federal Forest AG has made a contribution of € 100 million. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The way for a continued healthy and successful budgetary policy in this Federal Government is set out!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6979	The next speaker was Mrs Mandak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e6997	Madam President. High house! Mr Kurzbauer, I am pleased that you are pleased that the ATX courses are rising. But that means nothing more than that the share of property and income from financial assets is rising in Austria. The care providers, who now offer “great” two percent increase – after eight years – as alms, they have nothing to do with the increases in ATX! – You should see these links. [[Abg. Heinzl: Neither do the unemployed!]] Not only is it a matter of the economy flourishing, but it is also the question of who can benefit from it and who benefits it, and we would set different priorities than you are currently doing in your government. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Mr Lichtenegger has again praised sport as a possible form of drug prevention, and he has also pointed out Traiskirchen. We like to stress that sport is an important means. I am only convinced that both the opportunity to work and work, and the possibility of decent accommodation are at least as important as sport when it comes to stopping people from using drugs. There too one should ask if one has no other priorities to set. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Heinzl.]] I looked at the budget accompanying laws from the perspective of the family spokesperson. Mrs Haubner, the Secretary of State, once again stated in the relevant committees that family policy is an important concern of the government. We need to invest everything to make family living and manageable for younger people, she said. That's what I'm asking myself: How Careful Goes What about budgeting in this area? The lion's share of the budget in family policy issues is FLAF, the family compensation fund. In 1999, expenditure was 7.33% of the budget and now stands at 8.74%. This is an increase of €1.6 billion, mainly due to the childcare allowance. Now you can say: We wanted to introduce the childcare allowance, which we wanted, and that is why we did so. – But you didn’t think about how They finance it at all, because FLAF is now empty, bleeding out. But not only the FLAF, but also the reserve fund behind the FLAF, is empty. That is, he has a “power” – under quotation marks – of 935 million, but that’s not a fortune, but that’s a minus! It claps a huge hole in this area in which it is about ensuring services for families. So a “fund” can’t be a talk in this area for a long time, but you’ve dug a huge pit, where you’re going to swipe in and out every year and try to compensate for it somehow. But a family compensation fund can't be spoken of for a long time now! What to do You're now in the Budget Support Act? – They go here and withdraw from this FLAF 20 million € already so empty: as “administrative burden in the implementation of this federal law”, i.e. for the settlement of the family aid. – That is to say, from this fund you take €20 million and give it to the financial offices to do something that is their most appropriate task to ensure the distribution of family aid. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: This is not a...!]] [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: This is not a core task of a financial office!]] – Of course, this is a core task of the financial offices! – Then go here and clear out of this empty pot in addition to funds you have to pay to the Lower Austrian local health insurance fund for paying out the childcare allowance and allowing the entire settlement in this area. That means saying good-bye first. It is the core tasks of the state – this is clearly a task that is a federal task! – and hand it over to someone else, and the cost of it will be taken out of this empty fund. Then you are still very proud and say: We are decommissioning more and more staff, we have fewer and fewer employees! – Well, if you let others do the tasks that are actually our tasks as state tasks, then you can easily do so if you still take the money from this deficient pot anyway. The third point is 14 million, which you take as compensation for funding under the Studienförderungsgesetz. That is, on the one hand, you introduce tuition fees, get financial resources in there, and on the other hand, you will again finance funding measures from the FLAF area so that holes are stopped here, which you dig yourself in other areas. Mr State Secretary represented by Mr Finanzminister! So you can't create budget-accompanied laws! So you can't make a serious budget policy for families! That's not in our sense. We will certainly not agree to such measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7077	Mrs Rosenkranz's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7096	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Mandak! It is a positive thing if more money is now being distributed from the Family Compensation Fund than in 1999. [[Abg. Mandak: There's nothing inside!]] [[Abg. Oils: But if there is nothing inside!]] [[Abg. Grade: There you have to have it so you can pour it out!]] Childcare allowance, including fully developed, is financially insured. It has always been a major nuisance of former governments that the family tax compensation fund is becoming more and more money - due to the low birth rates -... [[Abg. Silhavy: But this is an uncovered check, Mrs. Rosary!]] No, you said that before we introduced it! [[Abg. Silhavy: And that has proved true!]] The child care allowance works, and the check is covered! What you said at the time did not come true at all. Anyone who asks for the babysitting allowance gets it! [[Abg. Silhavy: You owe it! They're making debts for the future!]] But it was a nuisance, above all, of socialist-dominated governments, that money that was unfortunately left in the FLAF – because one could have dispossessed more; especially if the number of children had fallen, it would have been necessary to do so – has been removed again and again as a simple buffer for the budget. At the beginning you can still think that it will come back sometime. That was never the case. [[Abg. Oillinger: Now it's the other way round!]] – It is good that the money will be disbursed from FLAF! But now a word on the health reform and financial compensation already attracted several times in this debate. – With surprise, Mr Darabos, I have heard your rightful person – but from your side it has surprised me – complain that now, on the revenue side, there are increases in contributions and self retention in the room. I do not want to start by saying that it was you who introduced self-hold in the nineties, in your time of government. But have you already deposited your legitimate rejection of new burdens with your country politicians? Have you ever argued there? Did you say the chief, Rieder, Burgstaller? On the last Saturday alone, the state politicians, especially your party, did not leave the slightest doubt that they did not think in their dreams of making the necessary structural reforms, if not simply and simply more money comes – for example, the “small sum” of € 305 million. As has always been the opinion: Structural reforms must be made! That is not the case, Mr Oellinger. We know that in health care, a very large cost-enhancing factor is that the two sectors – the stationary and the established – are not connected. [[Abg. Oillinger: Are you also for the agency? You were against it last week!]] That is what everyone says, and everyone knows that, before this is not brought together, it will certainly not be an efficiency boost. With this structural reform, the proposal is now on the table – and as much as you hear it, if the additional money comes, it is also accepted – that for the first time at least a joint planning takes place and that there must be reasonable agreements. This has not even been sought up to now! I think this is a good, long-needed step – now it has been set. But we were always of the opinion that the horse should not be stowed at the tail, but should first make the necessary structural reforms – and not, as is now required, lead new resources into a non-efficient system. Especially our clubman really defended and presented this last Sunday in the “press hour” very waker, and for us this thing has not really been done. It is possible to save! You could just do that. Vienna is a very good argument, one has to draw only once the comparison between public hospitals and religious hospitals. There you can see that in the religious hospitals medically highest quality is offered, the standard of caregiving services, the care is superior to any criticism – human, human enough – and all of this at much cheaper costs! This comparison could be well mentioned in Vienna. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! What you're following here is a double strategy: Your country politicians are indulging in the threat of refusing any structural reform, creating additional resources and thus causing the debate on additional revenue and increases – and you complain of this out loud, according to the currency: Hold the thief! – It would be more reasonable to make a serious commitment to structural reforms and to represent and enforce them in relation to national policy. This would be something that the patients will be careful about and that will not be used to conduct policy on the back of the patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7234	Mrs Silhavy's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7252	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Rosenkranz, your example of religious hospitals is very interesting, but it is addressed to the wrong address: In Styria the funds for the religious hospitals are missing because the ÖVP councillor does not want to give them! - That's so simple. So turn to your coalition partner on this question! That's where you're at the right address. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the Federal Minister for Finance is no longer there. He meant you'd be able to learn, it would be a thin budget-accompaniment law this time. It is true that the budget accompanying law has been relatively thin. That you have learned, however, I doubt, because essential measures you are planning are now trying to regulate the financial compensation of Article 15a agreements, rather than having them debated here in this House. But that will have a reason. Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat was very open in the budget debate: She said quite clearly that sometimes it was necessary to put pressure on us to implement reforms. “Make pressure” – politely expressed! There are other words for this, but I do not want to put it in my mouth, because otherwise I would probably sign a call for order. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It's enough for you to think something like that to suspect the order!]] But I think you can all imagine what you mean by ‘printing’ – that has something to do with ‘press’, with ‘pres-sen’, and I think it is already remarkable if a Federal Minister so publicly admits this in a committee debate. That, ladies and gentlemen, should give you some thought: The question is that necessary funds should only be made available by this Federal Government under certain conditions, which, so to speak, mean making pressure. – That may not be the right way in a rule of law! But it is no wonder why you have chosen this path. With her proposals, the Federal Minister has only received criticism everywhere – I want to raise it politely – and has known: Somehow it does not find a majority, it remains alone – and the health policy of God with it, unfortunately, remains in the rain. That is why it has obviously chosen this way. I have to tell you again: It's the wrong way! We want a health care and a health policy that will focus on future and forward-looking things. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The first speaker of the ÖVP, Mr Auer, who spoke here about a successful labour market policy, was also very interesting. Now I do not know which country Mr Auer has spoken about. [[Abg. May. Tancsits: Not from Germany!]] Since you are in the Federal Government, the unemployment rate has risen permanently! We had the highest unemployment figures in October for 20 years – and you are talking about a successful labour market policy?- Oh, my God! – You should be ashamed of it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] The Federal Minister himself says and always acknowledges that the development is not good, that it is not successful. But he doesn't mind! Every year we have the same theatre here when it comes to apprentices. The apprenticeship rate for birth years was 44 percent in 2000. You managed to lower them to 40 percent within this short period of time! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You want more and more...! How's that going, Mrs. Colleague? You have to decide what you want! The SPÖ doesn't know what she wants!]] Because we have to discuss every year how to give young people a future at all – because they do not give them of their own initiative – we are today bringing in a resolution on apprenticeship training, which should give you the opportunity to do something for young people. We know what we want! We make constructive proposals, only: You have both ears closed. They obviously don't want to see it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You will then have the opportunity in the vote to prove whether you want to do something for youth or not. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, you can now show whether you really want to give the youth a future – or whether you just decide on measures to burden the youth as you do with your pension reforms currently in permanence.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7370	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heidrun Silhavy, Mr Riepl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has been properly supported and is under negotiation. The next item is Mrs Machne's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7394	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As the guardian of the health and social spatula Lienz, allow me some thoughts about the Federal Care Money Act. This and the corresponding laws of the countries are with 1. It entered into force on 1 July 1993 and brought into force a complete reorganisation of care provision in Austria. Those who need care should be able to organize themselves as quickly as possible and according to their needs. The care money contributes to this, and it was and is a great thing for our older people. With 1. January 2005 now provides for a two per cent valorization of the care allowance. In view of the tight budgetary resources, I believe that it is an excellent achievement of the federal government to decide on this increase. As we all know, people get older and more and more and more life expectancy, and that is why, in the future, outpatient services will play an ever-increasing role and have a greater significance. The care allowance is a dedicated service to cover the care-related additional expenses and is not an income increase. Since the actual costs for the care exceed the due care allowance in most cases, this can only be understood as a flat-rate contribution to the costs of the necessary care. But it allows a lot of people a certain amount of independence and a longer stay in the usual environment. We must also support those people who allow our elderly and needy fellow citizens to stay at home in their usual environment. The two-percent increase is an important step in the right direction. For many older people it is particularly important – and here I speak from my own experience with a 94-year-old mother – to be cared for in their own four walls. A very great responsibility lies here with the caring families and in particular with the women. Now the time in which family members are cared for will also be taken into account. the retirement periods, as well as childcare, which, of course, helps many women to a pension. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neudeck.]] We also decide on a positive change in the care of disabled persons. This is where it is planned to extend the grants from 30 to 40 years. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the responsible social policy of the Federal Government, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7445	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7464	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Grasser, who is now hopefully at the Schnitzelssen, so that he somehow strengthens himself, because what he has delivered so far has been little illustrious today - I would like to point it out - has put his appeal in the room, but may one still remain serious and objective. [[Abg. Neudeck: We are not in the church!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek:... pig-bread!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ‘serious and objective’: Obviously, the Federal Minister himself has spoken of himself today, because, last but not least, in a budget speech, he has spoken of having managed to make the square of the circle. [[Abg. Neudeck: Are you a little darkened?]] [[Further calls to the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Of course, this cannot be spoken of at all! [[Abg. Neudeck: Did you think about it?]] Today we have also heard in the current hour what is needed in the field of science, what would exist in the field of universities for action. But there are no signals in this budget from our point of view. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to address two areas of these accompanying legislation, on the one hand the settlement water industry, and on the other, the Federal Forest Law Novelle. Ladies and gentlemen! In the area of settlement water management there is a reform store, which has been known for years now, a reform store insofar as we already have a connection rate of 86 percent in the seweration area, i.e. a high connection rate, but the potential savings potential is still not used. A study by the IHS clearly states that 20 to 30 percent would be possible in current operation. We have repeatedly suggested that decentralised solutions, cooperative systems and stronger regional networking should be used. None of this is contained in the Environmental Promotion Act, which has been presented here, let alone a mandatory use of planning competitions that are cost minimising. That's what we know: Planning competition in waste water treatment plants can lead to massive cost reduction. Such a planning competition from 200 inhabitants would have been a measure that would have helped small communities, rural areas, to develop better solutions for this. This budget support package leaves everything to be desired. There is hardly any more money for climate change measures, which is completely inadequate from our point of view. We have already criticised the corresponding decisions on tax reform in 2005 – a fact, in particular as regards the impact on municipalities, on financial compensation. But it is also remarkable that the implementation of EU agricultural reform in 2005 should have been documented in the budget accompanying laws from our point of view by means of an amendment to the Market Regulation Act. That is why I miss the corresponding amendment of the Market Regulation Act. We will continue to pay very close attention to this point, because it is not a question of distributing hundreds of millions of euros – it is €712 million a year – without legal anchoring according to completely new criteria, namely according to the uniform operating premium model, which still leads to massive interference in the ownership structure: It leads to the expropriation of property owners in respect of premium payments. So this will be an issue that I think we need to devote even longer. To the Federal Forests very briefly: In reply to a request from the Committee on Budgets, the Minister of Agriculture tells me that the increase in the base capital of the Federal Forest of 200 million schilling on the tenfold is also justified by the fact that any speculation regarding any intervention in the substance of the Federal Forest of the soil is removed. Who could do this intervention? – Obviously, the Minister of Finance could do this! This is obviously about the fact that the agricultural sector has tried to put forward a bar to these budgetary cosmetics tricks of the Minister of Finance, whereas in the field of pensions, namely the takeover of pension obligations in the Federal Forest area, it has obviously not succeeded in preventing this budget trick. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Forests will provide the federal government with €100 million of capital, which the Federal Forest itself does not have to do with, but has to take over via loans. [[Interlocutory note by State Secretary Dr. Finz.]] You have to borrow a loan, 100 million to the Federal Minister, Mr Finz, to the Federal Minister, who will have to spend about €10 million in 2005 on pensions. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz:... Takeover of pensions, yes!]] 10 million €, there remains a net plus of 90 million in the budget – of course a pure budget cosmetics: 90 million who are bound to pay these pensions over and over again over the next few years! So this is a classic budget trick, totally inappropriate to pursue a sustainable budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: Unification!]] In conclusion: These budget-accompanied laws allow us to completely miss a socially committed and ecologically forward-looking perspective from our point of view. We are therefore not going to give our consent in accordance with this package.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7597	Next, Mr Dolinschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7615	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time since 1996, the care allowance has now been increased by 2%. This means that the care money is again available throughout Austria, i.e. at the same height as the federal one. Carinthia had already increased the care allowance by 2 percent in the meantime and was thus a pioneer. As a social-political federal state in Austria, Carinthia is always showing new ways. There are now 33 million more available for around 300,000 caregivers. However, other improvements are also being made in the budget accompanying law, such as the recognition of care periods for close relatives in the general pension law, so that an own pension is reached. For disabled children there was the replacement power from the 30th to the 40th. Year of life extended, and continued insurance in the care level 3 is also guaranteed. Here the Federal Government practically takes over the service provider's contribution of 12,55 percent to the achievement of insurance periods. The periods of family hospice were also extended on the basis of 1 350 € per month. A focus in the Federal Disability Act is the legal anchoring of the right to pay the standard consumption tax also for non-profit associations. This is an important step, and this social suspension of the accident pension tax, which has been referred to more often, is now extended to all pensions where the insurance case is at the latest 31st. ==References== In addition, an extension of the term of appeal to six weeks and a legal obligation to participate in the procedure for the issue of identity cards and for the payment of the standard consumption levy will be required. As regards the amendment of labour market promotion, the objective and content of labour market promotion is to use existing labour market support reserves to maintain the level of active labour market policy. 70 million in provisions are now being used for active labour market policies. The costs of labour market relief by early retirement pensions in the case of unemployment are covered and the health insurance contribution for the beneficiaries of special support is harmonised. The development of active labour market policies has been extremely positive in recent years, even though it is now being criticised by the opposition parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] But since 1999, Mr Oellinger, there has been a doubling of the resources allocated to active labour market policy. That's it! A total of € 1 496 million is now spent on active and activating labour market policies. I have already mentioned the €70 million that are now being used in return to provisions for active labour market policy. It is important for us to believe – and now often complain that unemployment is too high – that every single unemployed person is too much for us too. But, internationally speaking, we have low unemployment, we have a high level of employment, and we want to stay at this low level of unemployment. Therefore, it is important that the resources of labour market policy, active labour market policy, be expanded and increased. [[Abg. Oils: The highest!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7658	Next come honourable Member Mag. All right, let's talk. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7676	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! If you listen to Mr Dolinschek, you think he is living in another country or on another planet. [[Abg. Dolinschek: No, I'm Austrian!]] It is true that unemployment has increased dramatically in times of the Black and Blue Federal Government and that this will have to release more resources for the labour market, but that the courses do not lead to people getting more into employment, but it is the opposite. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Are you talking about the Federal Republic of Germany or Austria?]] In this way, this government also has a large number of burdens on people. There are already, listed and numbered, 44 loads. One of these was the accident pension tax, out of which € 172.6 million were net in the budget. The 45. The burden on disabled people is also at the doorstep. In the summer, the Minister of Social Affairs and Vice Chancellor Gorbach broke his head over the fact that care providers should no longer be exempt from the basic telephone fee. Minister Haupt argued at the time that care providers would have their neighbors telephoned to Australia. This is another hard-working example of where social policy is anchored in this government. For at the basic fee it is so that people are exempt from the basic fee and that the first hour is reduced for calling. But these statements regarding the talks to Australia have attracted a lot of resentment, anger and despair, especially among care professionals. It is true that the budget accompanying law now enshrines the valorization of the care money. These are more for the care allowance level 1 by 2,90 € more, for the care allowance level 2 by 5,40 € more and for the care allowance level 3 by 8,30 € more. These three stages comprise two thirds of all care providers, i.e. these people will not be able to buy much of additional benefits with these amounts because the loss of purchasing power has not been compensated. It is essential and important for care providers that the care allowance is evaluated and increased annually. So, too, colleague Dr. Huainigg wrote in an issue today that the annual valorization of the care allowance should be a fixed star. I give him and his group, as well as the FPÖ, the opportunity to support a motion for a resolution which the honourable Members may have. Christine Lapp and colleagues on the annual valorization of the care allowance. The application is as follows: ‘The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations is invited to forward to the National Council an immediate amendment to the Federal Care Money Act for decision making, which provides for the annual valorisation of the care allowance with at least the inflation rate.” It is true that the valorization of the care allowance is paid by the persons concerned themselves: The accident pensioners pay for this valorization, this €30 million, themselves. I think that is another example of the coldness of the black and blue federal government. Ladies and gentlemen! Another point is the law on the management of the Federal Social Office. For all those colleagues who do not know: In my opinion, the Federal Social Office is a very important centre of competence for disabled people in Austria. Here it is acknowledged that the management of the Federal Social Office should also be possible outside personalities. I feel very strongly about the suspicion that the post is already being created here for a possible party book economy. I would like to assure the employees of the Federal Social Office, who are doing excellent work and with whom we should all thank ourselves, that we will look at exactly what qualifications and qualities future heads of the Federal Social Office will have and that there is no party book economy in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7734	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Mag. Lapp, ladies and gentlemen, have been given appropriate support and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7786	Mrs Stadler is speaking next time. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7804	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! In his speech, SPÖ-College Moser spoke about budget cosmetics within the framework of these budget accompanying laws. . I would like to refer to three points in which this “cosmetic” is very beneficial to those concerned. On the one hand, I refer to the Federal Sports Promotion Act. The request has already been made by Mr Lichtenegger: From 2007 onwards, the financial future of the I would like to make the following motion for a resolution by Mr Haubner, Mr Lichtenegger, Mr Head and Mr Dolinschek on the valorization of the funds from the special sports support for ÖOC, Mr ÖFB, Mr Roof Associations from 1. In January 2007, as part of the Government template, Federal Sports Promotion Act: [[Quoted print version removed]] A second point that has already been mentioned several times is the increase in the care allowance by 2 percent: a clear signal from our federal government, a clear commitment and, above all, a great appreciation for the people to be cared for, a correct step in the right direction, while caring for us will still have so many tasks, because I believe that care will be one of the greatest challenges of our future political work. As a Tyrolean, I would like to refer briefly to the amendment of the Waffengesetz. Since we have concluded an agreement with Bavaria that we have already ratified, under certain conditions, that it is possible for our traditional protectors to carry their weapons across the border, the resulting need for a psychological opinion in the context of the verification of reliability as a system of illegality in the Waffengesetz has been presented. This mandatory teaching of a psychological opinion is seen as a bureaucratic obstacle and has a negative impact on mutual contacts. This amendment provides for an exemption for traditional protectors if an invitation is available when an authorisation has been granted and if – this is the third condition – the entry into the European Arms Pass has been made. This exception applies equally to sportsmen and hunting, provided that a European weapon passport is in possession. Hiemite is taken into account, on the one hand, by linking to the possession of the European Arms Pass, and on the other hand by removing a bureaucratic obstacle, thus facilitating the cooperation of the shooters in the Alpine region. Ladies and gentlemen! These budget accompanying laws are anything other than cosmetic: These are sensible measures within the meaning of our reform course for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7893	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Elmar Lichtenegger, Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek, colleagues and others, has just been properly put in place, is sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7926	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My predecessor has tabled a motion for a resolution on special sport promotion. First of all, I would like to say that we support the amendment to the budget accompanying law that, in a separate vote, we will accept the amendments of Article 22 to the gambling law and Article 23 to the Federal Sports Promotion Act. The background to this scheme is that the cover of the grants from the lotto and toto business for the sports promotion that has existed for years will now fall and will therefore flow more money into the sports promotion. This was a demand that has been put in the sports sector for a long time and which certainly also has a corresponding weight, and in which it makes sense to agree. At first, however, I find it relatively remarkable, as Mr Stadler has just argued. - I don't see where she went right now. Ah, here! – For valorization – I have chosen this from the government template and the explanations about it –: It is expected that there will be 7 percent increase in 2004, 5 percent in 2005 and 2006 and 2007 3 per cent each. This results in a forecast increase of 18 percent in revenue from the lotto and toto business for four years. They also said that it was an excellent performance of the Federal Government that the care allowance was increased by 2% from 1996 to 2004. This makes 0.25 percent per year. From this it is seen that the order of magnitude in the valorization falls a little apart. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It can also be seen that what is being done in the area of care money is a drop on the hot stone. There is certainly the hope here that at least in the next few years valorizations will also take place. If you wait eight years again until 2 percent is increased, it would look pretty drastic. By the way, the request you have made is precisely based on the fact that there are cost increases annually and that the associations can only find results if they receive these costs. So I think there is already an imbalance if we could perhaps agree on it. On the content of the motion for a resolution a number of comments have also been made. We have found positive that this time in the budget accompanying law the change has been made in such a way that there is no automatic increase in all areas to the same extent. As your application is now formulated, it would mean that from 2007 onwards the normal distribution key will again fully enter into force and the increases that will be 18 percent until then, when the forecasts vote, will be divided to the same extent: The ÖFB will receive 18 percent more, the roof associations, all those who have already received funds. In the Committee on Budgets, I noted positively that I thought it was a quality of the original proposal to be finally able to make priorities. That would be possible now. Of course, you can discuss this: The inflation rate, I think, should definitely be paid off. This is the one point I would fully agree with. If I now assume 2 per cent inflation, on average for these four years, if you take high, 8 per cent would be necessary for inflation. It would therefore have been nowhere less, and yet we would have freed 10 percent of the funds for specific funding, for project funding. One could have considered where one wants to focus. This is not limited to four years; in the foreseeable future, a lot of resources could have been made available. I am very sorry that you are now returning to the classical casting pot – I already know there are lobbys in all parties: there is a problem with the ÖFB that gets more money, there are attic associations that get more money. I am just sorry that this opportunity to stop the casting can has been granted instead of looking specifically at where funding is needed. For example, we could have thought about what school sport means, what measures might be needed in order to get better opportunities. – Now I’m not talking about paying teachers, but coordinating activities, for example, that we’ve already talked about in the ministry. What would be necessary to bring the clubs together with school sports? – This would have been possible to bring about a different approach with the existing resources. So, honestly, I'm not really satisfied that this is going to be the classic casting pot. There could have been more creativity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e7986	Mr President, we were informed that you would put forward a motion for a resolution. But that has not been the case! Mr Dr Huainigg spoke next time. Its voluntary time limit is 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8011	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This government has promised the valorization of the care money and despite all the unconfirmed calls, it now also comes with 2 percent. Of course, I would like a lot more as a person concerned, but you also have to see that 2% is €30 million, and that's not very little. If it is said that it is nothing at all, then it is annoyed to some degree, because there were times when the SPÖ offered the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Social Affairs and there was no valorization. Of course, there was a difficult budgetary situation at the time, but the situation has not improved. Due to the difficult economic situation and the world economy, the budget situation is now very tense, and it is therefore a much greater political power today than in 1996 to valorise the care money. It is understandable to me that the failures are not a single step, but I hope and I am confident that this will not remain a one-off action, but rather a trend change that will now take place annually. In addition to valorization, the care money system must also be developed urgently. On the one hand, support is needed for caregivers who need to be offered more and more. 80 percent of all caregivers are cared for and cared for at home by the family, and this requires more outpatient services, better prophylactic advice and also day structures. Furthermore, the classification of caregivers also needs to be improved. There are shortcomings here, for example, in disabled children. Here it is argued that the mother has a 24 hour custody obligation anyway, but of course this cannot be done too one, since a disabled child obviously requires a much greater care effort and the mother does not find a replacement as easy as that. On the other hand, for young people with disabilities, the system of personal assistance needs to be developed or even built. It is an intolerable situation when young disabled people land in the old age home, on a storage track, where there is no longer a chance to develop a life perspective, where there is no chance of taking a job. In these areas, further developments are urgently needed, and I will work to ensure that they take place.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8048	The next speaker was Mr Wittmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8066	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It can be said that not all the measures of this government are to be condemned in principle. If you look at the change in the gambling law, you can see a tendency in the right direction to resolve the cover especially for the sports sector and to give a minimum allocation of € 40 million to the special federal sport promotion. In this respect, it is therefore quite possible to confirm a positive approach to this budget-accompanied law. But that is the only thing that stands in here on the positive side, and therefore it is and remains to be rejected in its entirety. What has been the success of this government in financial policy in recent years? – We have the highest tax and tax rate that has ever existed. [[Abg. Bucher: Where did you get this?]] We are in the forefront of our tax and tax ratio across Europe, and you know that exactly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] You know that Germany is far behind us. You know that other countries are far behind our tax and tax rate. They have reached the highest debt since 1945. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: That's not true either!]] You just need to look at the numbers you publish yourself. They have reached in absolute terms the highest debt since 1945. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There's nothing to beautify. They have the highest tax and tax rate. At the same time, they burned up the family silver. You tried to get over the rounds with one-time effects. They just don't bring it together anymore, because everything has already been sold. So you won't get any more from such deceiving actions. Mr Moser put it very well: You sold it a lot too cheap. If you'd been waiting for the privatisations, you'd have been able to do more with the privatisations than you were half a year or a year ago. So you've thrown the family silver, you have the highest tax rate, you have the highest debt level. There is nothing left of your announcements of a future without debt. You increase the debt indiscriminately, you sell the assets, so that there is no longer any manoeuvrability for this state. And you have to urge the countries to compensate for the debts you make. This will only work for a certain period of time. It is therefore a disastrous financial and economic policy as a whole. In addition, the tax reform is made procyclically at the very wrong time, instead of anticyclically anticipating: Now I need purchasing power to counter it. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz: That's exactly what it will be!]] Such a measure should have taken place in 2003, but not now, where it falls precisely into the economic cycle. In this phase of economic development, it is in reality only pumping. The further measures you have taken are nothing better. The tax reform brings € 5 per month for the small earner or the small earner. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not noticeable! For this, the corporate tax is 20 percent instead of the 2% for wage-tax income. This is, after all, the tenfold of those who can afford it anyway. Long speech, short sense, highest tax rate, highest debt. [[Demonstratetive applause and calls at the ÖVP:Genau! Very striking!]] And it stays with it: My promise is that your economic policy will not be better!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8158	The next speaker was Mr Keussnigg. Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes taken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8178	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! In the context of these budget accompanying laws, we also need to deal with a change in the family compensation law 1967, namely that the compensation fund for family allowances will provide €14.5 million for study promotion measures and will have to be made available. In this context, I have looked at the study promotion measures a little more closely, once because it fits well with today's current hour and, secondly, because after two years of practical testing – you still know that the basis for the university reform has been widened – is the time to see how the new regulations have proved to be successful. In addition, perhaps some figures: Since 2000, the total budget for study funding has been increased by 54 percent, from € 105 million in 2000 to € 162 million in 2003. The number of people involved has increased by more than a third, from 34 000 to about 46 000, and the number of students supported or the rate of funding has increased from 13 percent to 22 percent. Two points are of particular interest in this subject complex: for the first, the level of study funding. With regard to the level of study funding, Austria is at the forefront of €335 per month in Europe, followed by Germany with €326, and Finland is already a clear waste. The political statement on this: Anyone who wants to study in Austria can, and must be able to do so. We are of course in favour of this. Those who cannot afford it are supported by the Austrian State, by the Austrian taxpayer. Austria treats its studying youth perfectly, and we do not need to hide comparisons in this respect in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, there is a fire review by the Court of Auditors, and the Court of Auditors confirms a very rapid and quality performance. The time for the completion of applications has fallen from 31 to 18 days in the last three years. Within 14 days, 88 percent of applications will be made if the documents are sufficient. I can say that I call it a performance-oriented, a citizen-friendly, a customer-oriented state performance. The competent Minister of State is not here, but perhaps I should like to extend this congratulation to the Secretary of State. I think it's necessary to have a compliment.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8228	As the next speaker, Mr Zinggl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8246	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I should first like to make a formal reply to the motion for a resolution that Mr Brosz has forgotten. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the Bundesmuseen Act, because the budget-accompanied laws also provide for a change to the Bundesmuseen law, because the museums are to receive more money. They will understand that responsible people cannot accept such a demand properly. It's very difficult. If any control over the museums and their birth has been lost when a Baroque museum director grazes and uraises, as if he were after all the little caterpillar Nammersatt, then you have to ask yourself why we should put more and more money into the throat of this eaty napkinsatt. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] It reminds me of a budget increase in some way of parents who simply give more and more responsibility to their child, who constantly throws out the pocket money, but always comes back and wants to have the pocket money again or to have an increase in the pocket money. And this is not responsible in connection with the museums. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] No one will have anything against an increase in the budget of the museums. We are the last ones who would not agree to an increase if the The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative In fact, we all need to agree on this – first of all, something like a commercial management. In other words, such a management would have to be part of a change in the federal museum law so that an increase in the budget is inside at all and that things like that Dr. Seipel is doing at the moment can be excluded in the future. For, please, let's not pretend that we don't all know what's going on. Every day I experience new things. For example, I have learned that research sessions, which are actually required by the law, are not held. In five years a single research meeting was held at the Kunsthistorisches Museum, and this is not in accordance with the law. I have experienced something else in conversations with museum directors, namely that the most important thing is the money that flows, and that in a law can already stand what may stand in there. If one director does not comply with the laws, the others do not have to stick to them either. In one word: It's already doing school. And laws that cannot be controlled are actually for the fish. If as a parliamentarian in the Budget Committee I accept the question of how much money the Kunsthistorisches Museum has received in 2003 then I will not get an answer to that question. But now we should agree with this Federal Museum Act, which provides for an increase in the funds for an institution that is already leaking and which eats more and more like a greedy moloch, a barrel without soil. I find that in the truest sense of the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8336	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Zinggl, drawn up by Mr Brosz, Mr Lunacek, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8358	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I have also read your minority report from the Committee on Budgets very carefully and I have wondered where you will take the € 5 per month, which some Austrians will save themselves by the tax reform. If one assumes that a single mother with two children can save up to €876, then I don't know where to take these numbers. [[Call:per month]] Per year of course, these are 876 €. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] Now to the budget accompanying laws in themselves. The Austrian labour market is on the move. It is characterised by an accelerated structural change in society and the economy, and the challenges for an effective labour market policy are, of course, enormous. While other countries are expected to continue to be busy with these reforms for a long time, we have already created modern, efficient instruments for combating unemployment in a highly dynamic economy with our labour market administration, the AMS. In addition to the former Minister of Social Affairs Hesoun, our German Chancellor Schüssel, then still Minister of Economic Affairs, also contributed to this. The two have jointly removed the AMS from baptism, so to speak. Austria's position in the international comparison proves this to be sustainable. According to Eurostat, Austria has an unemployment rate of 4.5 per cent at the end of September, while the EU average is 25 per cent. It's twice as high. However, the success of a constructive labour market administration is also due to the Federal Minister Bartenstein, who intensively cares for the descendants of Vienna in general with regard to the labour market. At 74,650 unemployed in October, every third unemployed person comes from Vienna. That is why Minister Bartenstein has promised both financial and human growth of the regional AMS, so that the problems will finally be addressed in Vienna. Every unemployed person is, of course, one too much for us, so the labour market situation continues to require intensive use of resources and measures for an active labour market policy. In this way, the present budget accompanying law is intended to provide both a structure and a guarantee of financial resources for the future active labour market policy. By amending Article 12 of the Labour Market Finance Act and Article 15 of the AMSG, a more flexible use of resources to finance tasks, conduct labour market policies will be possible. The planned withdrawal of reserves ensures that existing reserves are used as a priority and that the AMS is granted an unchanged margin of intervention in the field of labour market policy. Other examples you have given in your minority report, such as the fact that tax reform does not strengthen mass income and will not boost the economy, are wrong, and it is also wrong that income has stagnated in Austria since 2000. The Wifo experts see this differently. Employment is also constantly on the rise from the year 2000, and the German government is clearly responsible for this success story and, of course, not the Social Democrats. In Vienna, on the other hand, we have seen a decline in employment since the year 2000. Only the Social Democrats are involved. It's not a black painting like you always do. Unlike you, we make reforms and are constructive. You can always operate only black painting and ravinery.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8397	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8416	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! One must be taken into account in the budget accompanying law: In fact, it is a major step forward in one area compared to the last budget accompanying law, it is much thinner. That is, quantitatively it has improved. Unfortunately, the quality cannot also be said to have improved. There is a huge wealth of things that are mentioned not only but also in the minority report. Ladies and gentlemen of my group have already responded and will do the same. I think, in general, that the budget accompanying law and the budget itself can be said quite clearly: It is essentially based on four cornerstones, first of all: no stimulation of domestic demand; second: no sustainable structural expenditure proposals; third: strengthening the poor distribution effects of tax reform, especially in the area of FLAF; fourthly: Numerous individual measures, totaling around €1.2 billion, are at least 0.5 percent of GDP. And if I consider that, for example, the tax reform is assessed by the economic research institutes with a short-term expansion effect of 0.28 percent, but at the cost of 0.7 percent of GDP in 2005, then, I think, these figures can be very beautifully put together in a relationship. With the tax reform – and this is an essential part of this budget – you are not only in terms of content, but in fact also politically wrong, as recent surveys show. 69 percent of Austrians surveyed are convinced that the tax reform will result in the following burdens that will overcompensate the tax reform. 77 percent of these believe that social benefits need to be further reduced in order to finance the tax reform, and 84 percent do not believe that the tax reform and thus the budget will stimulate economic growth. I believe that in view of these figures of domestic consumption will not really rise. [[Abg. Bucher: (holding the “standard” high) Do you have that from the “standard ”?]] – No, that’s not “standard”, that’s a SWS survey with a sample of 1,200, which is quite representative for Austria if I consider that some of the government’s samples are 300 when you look at election surveys. But, as has been said, in view of this scepticism, which is reflected in these figures, domestic consumption is not just boosted, and then, for example, revenue is missing in the sales tax, which one is desperately looking for now – billions of tax revenue are going down and such things – that is certainly not surprising. The negative incidence effect, which is based on the Budgetary Accompanying Act, is reinforced, for example, by the reduction of corporate tax. If you think that the tax relief is from the sum and relative to the tenfold of the tax relief, then this negative picture is reinforced. I believe that the measures of the Budgetary Support Act have also given the great opportunity to relieve, for example, the labour factor. As I look at my colleague Bucher: Especially in the area of tourism and leisure activities, this is very important and a topic that we always like to talk about. I think it would be a good idea for the government to join our proposal, for example to re-base the local tax and then to reduce the rates, which would have been very helpful to the services-intensive industries in particular. Instead, the budget-accompanied law contains a very sluggish and nebulous statement on the future cost reduction, but without any financing proposals. In any event, this budget-accompanied law will not provide the framework for additional wage reductions and thus will not ultimately contribute to the Lisbon strategy. Nearly scurril there seems to be about the size of the measures about Article 8 with the sale of another housing company, a non-profit housing company; quite worthy of the nominal amount, which must, of course, be according to WGG, and should be so. Deservingly because at the SPÖ it was criticized by the Minister of Finance that there should have been a divestment to the nominal. The difference was just the: This divestment would have taken place in the area of community housing associations, but it will be privatized. This is a small but very fine difference, especially for the tenants concerned. It is similar in Article 9, which has already been mentioned. Here again, no structural measures can be found, for example, in the direction of the culture cluster proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which in turn would be important for the tourism and leisure industry. Finally – or rather too bad – there are no approaches to economic policy building, for example. If, therefore, the Minister of Finance has repeatedly stressed that the budget and the budget accompanying laws create more freedom, it makes sense to look at economic history. And in economic history, the findings here are clear: Freedom has created those governments that have also behaved in economic policy interventionistly, and not shatteringly neoliberal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8462	The next speaker was Mr Böhm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8481	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! As an Austrian entrepreneur, as a Salzburg entrepreneur, I first have to thank our State Secretary for these budget accompanying laws. In particular, the small and medium-sized economy is very pleased with these budget accompanying laws, especially as regards reduced income tax rates. This is, I believe, very important for the emergency trade in Western Austria, and I would like to thank my group very much for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Many points on the budget accompanying legislation have been raised. I can still lose a few words on one point, namely to the airport and to safety. In accordance with the Budgetary Accompanying Act, the security levy is to be increased. It is a sensible institution, as I mean, and an effective support. The amount is set at €7.964 as the basis for the calculation. The security charge is a personal charge and must be calculated according to the weight of the aircraft. This charge is intended not only to protect passengers but also to protect aircraft and their personnel, to protect buildings, such as passenger and luggage handling buildings, as well as to protect radar and control equipment, runways and highways. The Federal Ministry of the Interior is responsible for security. The controls are no longer carried out by public authorities, but by private societies. In accordance with a public procedure, the approved bidder is commissioned to carry out security checks at Austrian airports. As these procedures are open across Europe, for example, a Swedish company operates at Salzburg Airport. As I have personally reported to airport managers, an Austrian solution would be desirable. The airport management no longer has any influence on the award of security contracts. As a result, there are conflicts of interest and coordination problems, according to airport managers. For cost reasons and, of course, from an entrepreneurial point of view, foreign personnel are used to control domestic and foreign passengers. I would like to add a few more figures to this so that you can get a picture of it. In 2002, 7 717 000 people arrived at Austrian airports. 7 755,000 people have flown away and about 169 000 people have found the way through transit. In comparison: Munich has about 20 million passengers today, Frankfurt has 49 million passengers, Chicago as the world's largest airport has 80 million passengers. It would be desirable for the future – and I would like to stress this once again – to provide an Austrian solution to ensure security on the ground. The situation at General Aviation is its own and belongs to customer- and target-oriented treatment, especially because of the costs. In terms of land, water and air safety: For a safe Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8538	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8556	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! My appreciation for you and for the work you are doing as the Secretary of State for the Republic, I do not want to narrow in any way with my comment on how justice policy laws are so to speak hidden in budget accompanying laws. Although I have no understanding of this, I can understand that, when it comes to raising money, one has to be finent, but – Mr State Secretary, allow me to tell you – what is happening here in connection with the increase of rates and limits of value is an intrusion of essential innovations, but there was no judicial debate on what it actually is. If I compare this, Mr Finz, with the switch from Schilling to Euro: At the time, the specialist committees were very much entrusted with these concerns and have paid close attention to the fact that this change does not have an impact on the population. That is why I can only tell you here – and that is not just what I am going to put to you, but that is clearly evidenced by the result –: They from the government parties simply use the tag rate increase and the value-border novelle and simply for a totally banal money acquisition action, without even taking five minutes of judicial debate on the consequences of this! Mr Finz, in principle, we are going to decide in principle today for things where the opposition – I think I can speak for the Social Democrats too – is in full agreement with you, for example, that there must be certain inflation adjustments. But this has nothing to do with the budget accompanying law, because that is precisely what we are talking about. But now we are talking about much more, that is, heavy-duty interventions. And in the punishments, these are not somehow small increases, which you hardly feel, so to speak, because otherwise everything becomes more expensive. On the contrary: This is a massive burden on the people, and this is done under the guise of the “budget accompanying law, ” with the exclusion of the knowledgeable public! Even the most positive things that are inside, which are now quite dramatically pronounced, do not even make it worth asking for separate votes in second reading, because I cannot accept this ignorance of parliamentary committees – I do not know whether anyone from the judicial committee will talk about it here now – and because I also believe that we can then: In terms of content, a successful green branch would have arrived very quickly and there could have been agreement on this. – But: That's not it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8620	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8638	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer very briefly to Article 5 of the second section and say something about the safety of civil aircraft, especially with regard to the events of the 11th century. In September 2001 in New York and Washington and various terrorist and criminal threats scenarios. For civil aviation, safety standards on civil aviation have been significantly improved in recent years: on the one hand, through the continuous improvement of infrastructure through state-of-the-art technical equipment, such as the installation of large-scale luggage control facilities and the intensification of human resources, which, of course, means an increase in performance hours and thus financial effort. These additional costs cannot, of course, be borne by the federal budget alone, but it is necessary to increase the level of security which has already been established in 1996 and has not been adjusted since; as Mr Böhm has said, this is now €7,964. At the same time, a more effective form of billing is introduced in order to reduce the administrative burden. Austria has six civil aviation stations to pay these security charges; for reasons of simplification, they are only handled at a financial office in Vienna. Now some interesting facts. While the number of passengers in all these airports in 2003 was 8.2 million, the figures calculated for 2004 amounted to almost 9.9 million. This means an increase in the number of passengers by 20 percent. As a result of the increase in the security levy, an increase of 84 percent is expected to be an expected plus of about €43 million in 2005 for a passenger volume of 12 million. Security at civil airports had to be greatly improved, and I believe that this proposal is also a sustainable contribution. I would also like to thank the employees of the Federal Ministry for this work and would like to stress once again: Security at all levels has a very high priority for the government parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8681	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8700	Mr President. Mr – Lonely – State Secretary! [[towards Secretary of State Dr. Finz]] I would like to thank the many experts who have formulated their opinion on this part of the budget that is now available. Wide areas of the budget are still completely unclear. According to “Newsline” – and likely to become They have also read this on SMS – it is true that health funding is still completely in the arrogance. Mr Finz, your colleague, Mr Haubner, said you had come a little further, but not far enough. – I thank the experts once again and have to say: It is a dubious testimony that they issue to the budget or the budget accompanying law. To this end, in three minutes' time, this budget and the budget accompanying law are marked by: Point one: Lack of perspective, point two: Lack of social justice, point three: Lack of future-oriented sustainable willingness to reform and point four – my opinion on this –: the wrong measures at the wrong time. Unfortunately there is not the mathematical formula minus and minus results plus, but it is a double fatal effect. In addition, and on the basis of two small examples, I should like to point out the extremely sloppy and carefree use of tax resources by this Federal Government. First example: the Wörthersee stage in Carinthia. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] There was a special payment from ÖVP and FPÖ in November 2003 in the Budget Committee, with the economic package III, to the country of Carinthia, for the Wörtherseebühne, amounting to €1.6 million – we are talking about art and culture here! – guaranteed. [[Abg. Wittauer: weren't you Social Democrats there?]] [[further calls for tender for the liberals]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: What about your party-chairing Ambrozy? Is he even your party chairman?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At the time, I asked Mr Finanzminister whether he had knowledge of the calamities surrounding the Wörthersee stage. – Minister Grasser removed these arguments from the table and meant that he was not responsible, but the Federal Chancellor and the head of state. [[New calls to the ÖVP:Is Ambrozy still your party chairman?]] – Culture representative is not Mr. Ambrozy, but your coalition partner Haider! Haider and the ÖVP/FPÖ coalition here at the federal level will have to pay this payment of €1.6 million to federal funds paid negligently and against better knowledge to the country of Carinthia! [[Abg. Grill: With the consent of SPÖ!]] That will have consequences! [[New calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Carinthia, you know: The employees of the stage company Wörthersee have been terminated, and this society is now facing insolvency. Mr. Landeshauptmann Haider has released his own managing director! This is the truth, and that is your handling of the difficult tax money of the Austrians in the field of art, amounting to €1.6 million! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wittauer]] This would allow cultural and art initiatives to survive in many federal states! [[Call to the Freeman: Everything with the consent of the SPÖ!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Now to another area, to your dealings with the housing companies. The last daughter of the ESG is also sold with this budget accompanying law. Through our intervention, a pre-purchasing right will be granted to the country of Carinthia, but FPÖ-Pfeifenberger and FPÖ-Wohnlandesrat Dörfler, as in the sale of ESG, will certainly also pass the pre-purchasing right period again! This is negligence in dealing with public property! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8822	The next speaker was Mr Dr Liechtenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8843	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. The Budgetary Accompaniment Act, as I mean, should also include the following: The necessary decision-making of the social market economy for citizens is based on the values and economic policy objectives which are derived from the major trends of the economy and society in the 21st century. ==References====External links== We need a strong and free market economy in Europe, which takes account of the current needs after the opening up. In the magazine “Welt am Sonntag” last weekend, I have read a very interesting article about the role Vienna plays in the economy: for example, those international companies operating in Central and Eastern Europe have a much greater number of headquarters in Vienna than in Berlin. – So I think that shows that we are on the right track and that we are moving forward with a modern economic policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It was certainly a real step, a step that had already been taken in 1990, that Austrian banks and insurance companies had gone very strongly into the freed area of Central Europe and so very early to understand for these countries. I believe that the 2005 tax reform will certainly help to boost economic growth. Yes, we are facing difficult times, but we are going to master them, because especially in Austria, the wish is there – and support is always there by the Chamber of Commerce, as well as by the industrial association with its President Veit Worger – that Austrian companies are particularly located in Central Europe and Eastern Europe. And, of course, we need a modern economy as well as a recovery through discharge. With this federal government – I am convinced – we are on the right path: on an economic-friendly path, on a way to the future, on a path that we must go in Europe. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8889	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8907	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! As I believe, Mr Liechtenstein is a little too optimistic, because if you look only at the companies and only at the large-scale enterprises in Austria, if you look at politics, if you only focus on financial policy after that, you will not be able to achieve, as I think, the success you want. And all the forecasts already point to this: As mentioned above, this tax reform costs about 0.7 percent of GDP, but only 0.29 percent is expected. – You can also recognize this and scientifically supported it: the approach is not properly chosen! That is why you can only call those policies you have made in recent years very worrying. If you look at revenue in the tax field, you can see clearly: People paying the total wage tax have been taxed with approximately €6 billion, while large companies have been taxed at €0.7 billion. A policy aimed at the fact that corporations no longer pay taxes, but, as it were, that wage tax is coming from this company cannot really be considered sustainable, as corporations have the tendency to optimize wherever they can be optimised. In other words, in the next few years there will be a large number of stock companies in Austria, which will hardly have employees or no employees at all here, but which Austria has chosen as their headquarters, because you support the internationalisation efforts of any group by the government parties with group taxation, but companies that have only a fictitious headquarters, a fictitious headquarters in Austria. Again: This is not going to be employment-effective! And: A policy that only sets such activities will certainly not have a lasting and positive effect, so that one can say that the mood will be better in our country, the purchasing power increases. – Such a policy cannot be expected. Therefore, it is very difficult to speak for this budget – and it can be clearly seen in the debates made by colleagues from the government groups. It is also very difficult for those who should defend this to make a contribution to this. You will then make your speech specific to some positive measures, which can also be found in the Budgetary Accompaniment Act – examples: sports policy measures or, for example, the increase of the care allowance – in order to somehow argue the entire package of these atrocities. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we will not be able to give our approval to the budget accompanying law... [[Abg. Booker: Do you believe it – or do you know?]] We're safe! We therefore hope for a policy change in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8966	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e8984	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The colleagues of my group have already explained exactly why the SPÖ rejected the budget accompanying laws. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wittauer.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's not exactly what has been explained! ... There can really be no mention of “exactly ”!]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé) Just as your Minister of Finance definitely...!]] The promised future without debt, as you vehemently explained here years ago, is a stable budget, all of which have remained pure word aid; nothing of that has been said! On the contrary: Since 2000, there has been €3 000 in new debt per Austrian and Austrian, which – which has already been said here – is the highest debt in our Republic since 1945 – and all this, without positive measures, without putting positive emphasis on the people of our country! On the contrary: 40 measures have been taken by you from ÖVP and FPÖ, measures which have taken the people very hard, as well as a number of increases in fees! This negative trend is also taking place in the field of justice, and I can therefore only say: The criticism expressed here by Mr Stoisits I can only agree fully with. If you look at the judicial budget, you can see that you are expecting a strong increase in revenue in this area, which should also serve to increase the value limits and the day rates as provided for in the budget accompanying legislation. However, it must be noted that there is a large margin in relation to the judges and therefore is still completely open, how realistic this is in fact your proposal. In principle, I believe that an increase in the rate-based value limits of inflationary development is equivalent to an increase in the day-to-day rate limits, an increase in the regulatory penalties is unconstitutional and is merely a short-term money-raising action to stop budget holes. In the field of justice, it is also more and more apparent that this is clearly a disadvantage to your non-social cost minimisation, both in this area and in the population. It is only necessary to look at the draft of the 2005 Criminal Procedure Novelle, which is based on a reduction in the number of professional judges in the School Senate, which has led the association of Austrian prosecutors to an opinion, in which it is said that purely budgetary considerations and not efforts to increase quality are the reason for reforms in judicial criminal proceedings. – So, not criteria of the rule of law are in the foreground, but only the criterion of saving costs! The working conditions of the people in this area, who are very committed to the state, are unbearable due to the given staff situation. But obviously nothing will change in the future, precisely because of your bad budgetary policy! There will be no improvement for workers in the field of justice or for the population. All of us will ultimately be the sufferers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9051	The next speaker was Mr Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9070	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to deal with two articles of this budget accompanying law, which could be different, namely the sale of the development company Aichfeld-Murboden. Mr Finz, I have already said in committee: This is a typical case for this federal government, which is talking about “the importance of rural areas” – Mr Wittauer, you certainly know this well! . but has, in fact, long since adopted the rural development objective. And what's behind that? – Mr Grillitsch, I would recommend that you do better research before you call for an interlocutory call. – What about it, Mr State Secretary? – They want to make apartments money. And these apartments where people live, of course, you want to turn a real estate agent in the throat. Mr State Secretary, you can explain to me why the second housing cooperative, which is sold, is to be read in the explanations – I quote: ‘Even after the sale, the rental interest-building provisions of the Housing Genuineness Act shall continue to be maintained.’ But at the EGAM and at the apartments in which these people live, this pass does not stand. Does that not mean that the housing law does not apply to the EGAM apartments? [[Abg. Großruck: You know for yourself: once non-profit always benevolent!]] Mr Grossruck, that would be simply and decisively objectionable. This, ladies and gentlemen, is another example of how you, Mr Grossruck, are supporting this government with your voice, which is to take the small and the poor and give it to the great and rich. For that, estimated Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups and the government parties, we are not to have. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point concerns Article 10, namely the Federal Forest. We have discussed in detail in the Committee how these €100.5 million, which will be given to the budget as a one-time measure – by the way, one of the many one-time measures that do not comply with the German Federal Government principle of sustainability in any way, Mr State Secretary – and what consequences there are. The Minister of Finance has been so kind and has given me an answer to my question, as the calculations are. But he spoke so fast that I couldn't write. I have therefore requested that this answer be made available in writing. The promise has been made, only the completion leaves it waiting for itself. A typical case: A lot of promised, big talk, but nothing kept. This is not the style that we are used to in this House or that we wish, Mr State Secretary. Therefore, the question to you once again: In the notes, it should be noted that pension payments for the Republic of Austria will fall from € 9.3 million in 2005 to € 4.3 million in 2023. Mr State Secretary, what conclusions does this allow? – First of all: In 2023, in 19 years, there are no more pensioners, they are all extinct. - I don't think so. Secondly, There will be no more payouts from 2023. - I don't think that's what I'm going to do here. But thirdly – and this seems to be the possibility that is going through this budget –: You simply stopped to calculate 2023, and you have stopped to do so, because until then, you and the Minister of Finance are no longer in your duties. And after me the flood. This is the content of the budget accompanying law and the budget. That is why we reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9118	Mr Finz, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9137	Mr President. High house! I admit that an opposition will always try to find the most favourable data for them, but a basic fairness should be given. The Grundfairness means that for 30 years an extreme debt policy has been made. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Such a nonsense!]] 30 years of debt policy means that we have to spend €7 billion on interest service alone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] All you have mentioned today is a better equipment for universities, a stronger increase in care money, all these things we could do if we had available these €7 billion annually. 7 billion € – more than the double of a tax reform! Now I ask you: Was it always the case that the state made such extreme debts? - No! The SPÖ Government took over an orderly budget in 1970, a balanced budget and almost no debt. That was the starting point. [[Mr Matznetter and Mr Gradwelt.]] An ex-finance minister who boasts today that he had made a better budget than the current Finance Minister Grasser, has made the making of debt saloonable at that time. Furthermore, we achieved annual deficits of up to 5 percent. We can prove that we have started the budget renewal process effectively and sustainably since 2000. This is evidenced by our budget data from 2001 and 2002, in which, for the first time in the history of the budget, a small surplus was achieved at all. In 2002, despite flood damage, there was a relatively balanced budget with very low debt. Mr Cap, Mr Wittmann and Mrs Becher and all the other Members. A budget deficit is not measured in absolute terms, because there is an inflationary series. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: In centimetres!]] It is always measured in percentages of gross social product. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: In kilograms!]] It can be seen that total debt is declining and that, of course, the annual deficit ratios are best in both national and international comparisons, absolute best data. Mr Matznetter! I invite you, go to Brussels, collect the data there, compare the European data with our data! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Enjoy!]] You need to know this data, too. Or ask internationally renowned economic researchers what they say about today's data and those who used to go. However, we have not only taken on the highest overall debt, but we have also taken on extreme debt in the field of national debt. Today we will present all these data exactly and in detail. At 3 p.m. you will offer us the opportunity to present our data. We are already pleased that we can explain these in detail, so I do not double it now, we have opportunity to do so today thanks to your request. Thank you. We have also reduced the extreme debt there by taking sensible privatisation steps, and that is why we make sense, because much no longer has to do the state itself. Why does the state have to manage apartments today? We don't have any more extreme housing needs. Why can't you leave that to private people or others? Why can't you sell these apartments, this former state property, and cancel debt with this money? [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Because they were non-profit!]] This is extremely effective. If the debt reduction, the interest rate service is greater than the expected profits, then the business and financial performance is a very good action. Mr Wittmann. We have a sensational low tax rate today. And with the tax reform next year, it will be just over 40 percent. Among our predecessors, it was 44 percent. These are values that are clearly mathematically comprehensible and can be confirmed by every specialist. You can't go here and claim the exact opposite. How did we make these tax reforms compared to earlier? The tax reform Edlinger has at best amounted to between € 800 million and € 1.2 billion for the three-fold amount under a Minister Lacina or his predecessor. Now the tax reform is 3 billion, that is, the threefold sum! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Why in absolute numbers?]] We have distributed them appropriately and fairly between wage taxpayers and entrepreneurs, about 50 percent to 50 percent. If we secure Austria's economic location, this will benefit the general labour market situation because it creates employment. Of course, it is also important that there is a new form of group taxation because it attracts Group headquarters and related industries to Austria. Watch how nervous the Bavarian politicians are who fear that these companies are moving to Austria. You can see that on the corresponding questions with us. We have effectively stopped a departure of ventures. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Nothing stopped!]] They must be able to recognise these objective figures even in the context of an opposition policy. Show us what better ideas you have! I miss her. I always hear individual criticisms, but I never see in you a package of favorable proposals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Gaál: Highest unemployment in Europe!]] Mr Matznetter, your proposals have not even been adopted by your own party. Increase interest on savings books, that's really not art. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You agreed to 35 percent in Brussels!]] We have first made a truly sustainable administrative reform. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No!]] Today, we spend less money on staff – as can be seen from the financial statements – than in 1999. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No, incredible!]] Even with the disbursements, we have saved over 10,000 staff and thus posts by not having re-occupied them. Mr Matznetter! That's the truth. I know it hurts when you notice that we have been successful while you or your colleagues have not been successful before you. However, we have still reformed, improved, the administrative services. Performance by the authorities is much faster and shorter today, because we have reduced structures because we have expanded the computer organizations. There are even competitions in the district's main teams to see how quickly a driver's licence can be issued in the minutes. One needs 14 minutes, the other 16 minutes. You took months. We're in minutes. That's our kind of policy we've done. [[Abg. Gaál: Look at unemployment!]] It has been criticised that the fees have been increased in the area of justice. – Yes, I admit, because for the first time we also have a cost and performance bill in the field of ministry and can now specifically determine whether fees are cost-effective or not. Due to cost-effective calculations, i.e. effective figures – not as it used to be, where it was said that we need money, so we increase by 10.20 percent – we have raised the charges just to cover costs in this area, but we still have the right to provide public services. So I think if you take all these reforms together – and these days we will also have an important pension reform, which you have always talked about, but which you have never decided to do – then you see, that is not just a government that reorganises the budget that makes the largest tax reform, but which has an extremely strong reform force to which it envys all of Europe, even your comrades in Germany. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9345	Mr Matznetter spoke on an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9375	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary Dr. Finz has claimed that this government has reduced administrative expenditure. – That’s wrong! Rather, it is true that the administrative expenditure of 58.2 billion in 2000 increased by 61.8 billion in 2002 by 62.6 billion euros. That's the truth, and don't say things like that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9405	The next speaker was Mrs Schasching. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9423	Mr State Secretary! Mr President. It is already true that one cannot choose whether to speak in absolute numbers and once in percentages. The fact is – and we have to say this again and again – that this federal government has the highest budget deficit since 1996. That is the point, and I would like to point out that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] FPÖ Minister Grasser promised a zero deficit in 2000 and thus set in motion the greatest socio-political wave and a sale-out of incredible quantities. This was one of the measures, one of the more than 40 greys that can be found today by the Austrians. And here we are talking about measures such as doubling the energy tax, increasing insurance, tobacco and other taxes, doubling the price of vignettes, numerous additional fees, increasing health insurance contributions, pension reductions. I would just like to remind you of all this very briefly, Mr State Secretary. These measures are accompanied by a further broken promise, namely the promise of full employment. That was promised to us in 2000, and that was not complied with either. We are now facing a large number of unemployed people in Austria. That's a sad fact, and you have to answer that. This has to be the responsibility of this Federal Government. That's really very, very bad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But now to the Federal Sports Promotion Act and to the reorganisation of the gambling law. It took a long time, it took a very long time. We remember that under the Minister of Sport of the last period, one had almost slept, that such a law must come, and one has packed it in the course of flood history. Then there was a massive pressure from the federal sports organization, the organized club sport. The need for action was confirmed. Finally, a measure which can be seen as a good outcome of the negotiations and as an extension of our request, which we submitted in spring, where we called for a 5-percent increase in the revenue of the Austrian lotteries. Today we have a well-recognisable increase of 3 percent without cover, where we can say a good result for Austrian sport, a very good result for organized club sports. It's not stupid and it's said. But this little mosaic stone, which shines out here, should not seduce us into congratulating this budget package as a whole. We can't do that and we won't. No one can demand that from the SPÖ. A sentence on the motion for a resolution tabled today by the Members of the Government. This is a valorisation of the funds for umbrella associations and the ÖFB from 1st. January 2007, and we also agree with this in the sense of the BSO's outcome of the negotiations, of course and very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9478	The next speaker was Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9496	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to refer briefly to the speech by Mrs Stoisits, who has been very angry about the value-limits-novelle. Mr Terezija, I did not understand it, because, in the previous period, the Committee on Criminal Enquiry, for example, called for a massive increase in the level of inflation to be opposed to the curtailing of sanctions, because, for example, 1 000 S in 1986, today, there is a very different value, because inflation has entered into the value limits of the criminal code over the years. And we removed these by the value-limiting novels. I did not understand why the Green Group feels that this is bad. I think it's kind of wrong for you. This is rather an adjustment to the level of punishment in the mid-1980s. So we have removed sanctions that have happened over the years. However, I would like to add another one. In the draft budget accompanying law, we also want to extend unemployment insurance for new founders, for young entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, a general unemployment insurance scheme for self-employed people has not been implemented, but this is possible at the earliest from 2006. That is why we want to extend the indefinite framework period by another year. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is a matter legislation that is actually already right and is only extended by one year. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The last government speaker! That's the style!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9567	The amendment tabled by Mrs Fekter, Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Dolinschek, Mrs Fekter, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Wimmer.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9608	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary, we have already understood what you want. They want to turn the standard of living back to those of the year 1970. I'll tell you: We Socialists are certainly not at your disposal for this undertaking! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Even if you still argue as temperamentally as before, I say to you: Since 2000, you have 23 billion € in new debt. You can say what you want: That's the truth, that's just the way it is! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned in the debate today, at the outset: The reduction in financial resources in the Chambers of Workers is really an attack on the workers in that country. This is significant for the policy of this Federal Government. They cut down the rights of the working people, and in reality you also want to withdraw the workers' representatives from their livelihoods. But they do the bill without the host! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] People know what they have in their workers' chambers, they know what quality they have to expect there, and they will certainly not like that in this form! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me comment again on Article 10 of the Budgetary Accompanying Act! It has already been mentioned: ÖBf AG, the Austrian Federal Forest, will again deliver €100 million to the budget. 100 million € will be sent from a well-floating company. Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! They confuse this excellent company with a self-service shop. It's really the same thing that this company has already been involved a lot. You were very inventive when it came to making new sources of money more and more. I only remember the special dividends, I remember that the Federal Forests even had to sell lakes so that they could transfer the money for your budget. I'd say, They keep this company under control, almost firmly in the grip. And I also say: That's not fair. The question arises as to how this company is actually going to implement the substance preservation. The opposite is the case, because with such measures this company is forced to sell land. It has to offer forest and water for sale again so it can pay its debts. Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! Your economic competence is that you have already sold or you have sold businesses or that you eliminate businesses. This is not the way we think of social democrats. We have already formulated this in the much quoted SPÖ economic programme. Federal Minister! They've already sold everything that's non- and nailproof. They have burdened people to an extent that has never been there. You are now punishing people with the new pension right, you have the highest unemployment rate to answer. At the same time, the budget deficit is as high as ever. This is an achievement, Mr State Secretary, which you truly do not need to be proud of! You will get the invoice presented.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9681	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mayer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9699	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have experienced a lot in recent years: Budgetary Support Act 2000 – one attack after another on the Austrian wallets! You didn't learn anything. In turn, the new budget accompanying law represents an attack. But what you've done now is putting the barrel out of the ground. Having your health reform proposals You have made an attack on the interests of employees in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. And that is rejected by us with all determination and clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I say to the ladies and gentlemen from the economy and agriculture – we will remember this –: In particular, colleagues from agriculture should look at how tax resources are handled, what resources and what amounts were paid by taxpayers to maintain their representatives, mostly with the agreement of the Social Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to deal with the budget accompanying law. Mr Stoisits pointed out the problems in the area of justice. Mr Finz, you spoke entirely of debt. We are faced with the problem of people in Austria having to make debts in order to gain access to education. I wonder, When, according to the educational economists, according to the health economists, do the judicial economists tell us when a procedure is allowed at all and what a procedure is worth? – One thing we say: Legal policy was not discussed in the Budget Committee on the modification of the criminal code and the StGB. Budgetary considerations dominate judicial policy rather than legal and legal considerations. We therefore reject these provisions from the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, we also reject the civil aviation regulations. These regulations are necessary, but I do not believe that the calculation is correct. Federal Minister Grasser referred to the Budget Committee after proving that the fee had been miscalculated: We've done a smoothing. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! They used to say we've rounded up. Federal Minister Grasser says: We smoothed. – So there is a new contribution, a new smoothed security charge. But she won't bring anything. The newspaper read: Jäger was in passenger jet with gun. In spite of all the increased security measures, a Carinthian hunter managed to take his armor case to a passenger jet, even traveling from Austria to London. Or: Bird flu alarm: Two infected eagles came to Austria, and from here to Belgium. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this scheme, you will not improve the security at airports. For these and all other reasons, the Socialist Group strongly rejects this budget accompanying law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9762	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9799	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There is another amendment. I know some of you are used to it, even in committees: There'll be a lot of documents later on. The difference is just: If applications are made very late in a committee, the competent experts who should actually know will be able to discuss them. If, at the end of an agenda, you are now presenting an amendment to the unemployment insurance law, the relevant experts cannot discuss this matter with the other Members, and may agree on something, just as after a committee meeting. There is even a lack of detailed information. Of course, we can now theoretically ask the President and say that we would like to hold a club meeting on this amendment. You probably have little pleasure in going to a club meeting for two hours, taking the time and this luxury to discuss this request. But that would be correct, Mr Ellmauer. They really come at the last minute, not in a committee or in front of a committee, but here in the plenary and in the budget accompanying law, with an amendment which, of course, also has financial implications. [[Abg. Ellmauer: Read the application before!]] And you have failed to describe even these financial consequences, although they are of course budget-relevant. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now, of course, you can say: If we are not interested, not so much will be, who knows what Mr Öllinger says. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is against federal budgetary law!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Three lines!]] It surpasses as usual again, fundamental opposition! . We already know this about vomiting, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Scheibner: We're not that far yet!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You have to do this, too, these three lines!]] But what you're doing here – and that's not just a note for the protocol – is the following: With this amendment and with amendments tabled in the way you are doing it now, you are in breach of the democratic principle. [[Abg. Scheibner: But please!]] Of course, every Member should be able to know what the content of this text says. I'm just going to read to you the explanation: ‘As the introduction of voluntary unemployment insurance for self-employed persons in the government programme is expected to be possible from 2006 at the earliest, it is expected that the permanent period of grace will be extended by a further year.’ Now I ask one of you, no matter who he or she knows what an indefinite framework reduction in their impact means. – You nod, you can explain what the indefinite framework scope means. I'm saying that almost nobody can. This is not an accusation to the Members of Parliament, but it is actually clear, because only the competent experts can take a measure of what it is all about and what financial consequences it has. This is not a way of dealing with the fact that, according to what we have already experienced today, essential provisions are no longer being negotiated in Parliament, but outside Parliament, are being negotiated between the national leaders, between the party chairman of the FPÖ and the party chairman of the ÖVP, without they coming to Parliament – and then, only after that, come into Parliament. It will not be discussed about the essential projects. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where do you actually live?]] As ministers, who have spoken here of the government bank, have come to say that important legislative projects have been launched – as the Minister of Finance has done. He says this, although he actually knows that from these legislative proposals to date there is nothing in Parliament. That is why, Mr Scheibner, you will come here at the last minute with an amendment and claim that this corresponds to the way in which this House has to work. [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the amendment application in the height]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's wrong!]] Mr Molterer! I can also show it to you, wrong or right around, it doesn't matter. [[Abg. Ollinger reverses the amendment.]] [[Rejoicing with State Secretary Dr. Finz.]] You vote in favour anyway, so I'd like to show you that way.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9959	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e9987	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I would now be very interested to find out how my colleague, Mr President, is doing this on a permanent basis. Walch has in the meantime explained to his neighbor Miedl, which is how he in turn explained this to his colleague Lopatka and, as he did on his right, Mr Walch has also explained to his colleague Scheuch. [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Parent]] Perhaps it would be useful if these four Members spoke here and at least I – take this seriously! – could explain what is an indefinite framework term. If that isn't serious enough for you, I'll draw your attention to the fact that these Lapidar sentences might be here... [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] – Of course, this is in conformity with the rules of business, which can be done if you refer to the legal situation here, but this procedure is at least formally contrary to another simple legal provision, namely that of the Federal Budget Act. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You need to know the legal situation!]] Let me now look at the members of the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Finance. Mr Rasinger, who is speaking carefully here with Mr Auer, should stop this. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Where's your clubman?]] Mr Auer, is this procedure contrary to the federal budget law, yes or no? – There is no word here about the financial impact! Would not the first of these be the case with 25 or 22 articles? – This is already celebrated as progress: the Waffengesetz in particular linked to the unemployment law. The Minister of Finance has already provided how great this is. This is progress: earlier 90 articles, now 30. - Great, applause, top! - We had all of that. But in the serious debate at least the formal... – Yes, Mr. Prince, even if in your constituency the Enlightenment has not yet really been taken in, you explain to your electorate how you can agree with your conscience that if you now agree here without being able to justify the financial impact of this law, in reality, because it does not even contradict the federal budget law! [[Abg. Prince: Mr. Col., you belong to the Burgtheater!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is regulated in unemployment insurance! You'd have been careful!]] It's all you want to do, most importantly you agree! You don't have to keep it that way or that, that's enough for you! [[Abg. May. Kogler turns and turns a copy of the current amendment]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10097	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 657 of the Supplements. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... a true word uttered!]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional proposal. Mr Haidlmayr, ladies and gentlemen have also made a request for a separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the supplementary request or by the request for separate vote, in accordance with the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. The Members of Parliament, Dr. Stummvoll, Dolinschek, colleagues, have tabled an additional request, which refers to Article 16. I would ask those Members of the House who give their approval to this supplementary request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Articles 19, 22 and 23 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to these parts of the draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is adopted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a similar sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Silhavy, ladies and gentlemen, on the introduction of a tax compensation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Lapp, ladies and gentlemen, on the annual valorization of the care allowance. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haubner, Mr Lichtenegger, Mr Lichenegger, on the valorization of the funds from the special support for sports for ÖOC, Mr ÖFB and Mr Roofers. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is adopted by a majority. (E 74.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues, on the valorization of the funds from the special sport promotion. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. 2. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (624 D.B._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Emissions Certificate Act, BGBl. I No. 46/2004, modified (658 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10169	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Oberhaidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10196	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! I would like to say once again to our last Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that a very good, excellent report, namely the report on the environment, has unfortunately been completed and we therefore have no opportunity to discuss this really good report here in plenary. We would have had the opportunity to document to the public how environmental policy has developed in our Republic over the last few years. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! It becomes more visible, as much Their economic-friendly environmental policy contributes to the fact that a very good environmental policy, with which we have taken top positions, is increasingly slipping into the middle. On the basis of the present Emissions Certificate Act, which was adopted in spring by the majority of the government parties in this House and which the EU Commission considers should change some of that – therefore, it was again a matter of negotiation in the last Environmental Committee meeting – it was possible that CO2 certificates from decommissioned plants would be transferred to existing installations. This regulation should now be amended. It is also necessary to change the competence of the authorities. In this respect, however, experts have said, Federal Minister, that the new regulation is anything but satisfactory. Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, these corrections will not change the fact that the law contains, in principle, errors made in the implementation of the EU Directive. It would have failed to negotiate with us if this law had been against our view. Federal Minister! I have already told you at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that, as reported from insiders, there are difficulties in the allocation of CO2 certificates. Now I have it black on white: According to “EconomiesBlatt, ” it will take place on 5 June. Delayed November – at the Committee meeting on 2nd November. On October 1st, you have still smiled at my statement or not taken it very seriously – and you are also threatened with complaints because the allocation is not transparent enough. All in all, ladies and gentlemen: Once a buffer – always a punch! It just doesn't get any better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10236	The next item is the report by Mr Radler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10254	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Oberhaidinger, you have just noted with regret that the environmental report is not here for debate. We have, I think, had enough time in committee to discuss this. That's what you're doing. I have read in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” that you have suddenly become a proponent of hydropower – this as a former opponent of Lambach! I take note of that. Instead, we should jointly devote ourselves to this matter, i.e. emissions trading or the new system of allocation in the implementation of an EU directive. The aim is to simplify the administrative procedure and the flexibility that our companies expect. All of this is intended to achieve the Kyoto objective. The main focus here is on reducing pollution exposure and purchasing through certificates. A positive example at international level was the model of sulphur emissions tested in America in the 1990s, where the trade in certificates has already been started positively, but this has been called the environmental lobby's trick at our political level in the late 1990s. Fortunately, this has seen a change in the public debate. The European MEPs of the Greens, the German Hiltrud Breyer, today call certificate trading a huge step towards achieving the climate alliance goal. I can say here that Austria has been a pioneer in all environmental protection, especially in the areas of biomass, wind energy and photovoltaics. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it is also to be welcomed from an economic point of view if such steps are taken in the field of environmental protection. More than 315 companies in the field of environmental technology in Austria today produce recognized technological products worldwide. Around 60 percent of these companies work export-oriented and generate around €2.5 billion. Austria currently employs around 85 000 people in environmental technology, in the environmental services sector. Nevertheless, we also need to look at how we can use the knowledge we have acquired in Austria over the years in the field of environmental protection in the globalized world. Let us just think of the developments that have taken place in the so-called tiger states or now take place in China! For example, there is an economic growth of around 33 percent in the five economic zones in China. We need to deal with this development, because only about 50 percent of people in China can start with the term “environmental protection”. That means that we are invited to bring in what we have achieved through the transfer of knowledge to those countries that are not yet so far away. There are already positive examples for this. As mayor, however, I would also like to point out the achievements of the communities in the field of environmental protection. In Austria, environmental protection is basic, ranging from the municipalities to the states to the federal government. In conclusion: The efforts made by our citizens in the communities for environmental protection should also be emphasised in the financial compensation process, so it should be taken into account. I would ask everyone here in this House to give a corresponding priority to the voice of the municipalities in the area of financial compensation.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10306	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10324	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! While on the one side of the Atlantic a wrong decision was made from my point of view by George Bush being re-elected, there was a very positive development in the East in the way that President Putin finally – after very, very long rings! – the Kyoto Protocol ratified by the Russian Parliament. We have thus reached the point that it can enter into force – after nearly 15 years of rings and almost 15 years of conflict in the international community. The Emissions Certificate Act is an implementation of the Kyoto Protocol at international level and here in Austria. We Greens have welcomed and welcomed the emissions trading as a response to the economy and this instrument, but we believe that it is very important for it to be designed. In this sense, we have criticized the Emissions Certificate Act, as it has been drawn up in Austria. In our opinion, it has serious shortcomings. Some of these shortcomings have also been identified by the EU Commission, and now there is a repair. We will not agree to this repair either because the gross shortcomings of this law are still present in our view. The whole system is not acceptable from the point of view of the Greens, as it will unfortunately not lead to a reduction of CO2 emissions in Austria. The gross shortcomings at the time were that there was no legal anchoring of the reduction target in the law – which was only included in the supplements – and that no restrictions on international trading possibilities that de facto left a door for the action with hot air, with hot air, were laid down. In early summer, we were very, very negative that the allocation plan for companies, the so-called allocation plan, was very generous, very generous. This has always been disputed in Austria. But over the summer two very interesting studies have come to the public, one on behalf of the Swedish Government and the other on behalf of the British Government. Two renowned environmental research institutes – one from Sweden and the other from Great Britain – have looked at the allocation plans across the EU. This is a very interesting question, because it is also very interesting economically. The result of these studies, which I fear, is that Austria has delivered the most generous allocation plan to the industry after Portugal. These two studies conclude that it is a major challenge for Austria to reach the Kyoto target, but it is not clear how this should happen. This is not a quote that the Austrian Greens have written, but it is a quote from the Swedish study. [[Abg. Scheibner: They don't like us! It's still from the time of the penalty!]] The British study is just as loud. Mr Environment Minister, I think that should give you some thought, namely that in the international concert we have granted the nearly largest chunks – only Portugal is still ahead of us – to the industry, which means that the other sectors, such as transport, housing, agriculture, above average, should contribute to achieving the Kyoto target. Even environmental research institutes from other countries cannot explain how Austria will do this. Mr Federal Minister, I ask you to revise this strategy! I call on you to review this generous allocation plan, which even allows the economy to grow from 16 percent to the target period, so that the emissions can be kept at least at the same level! In this sense, I expect a revision of the plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10363	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10381	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mrs Glavischnig, you know the great difference between England and Austria: While we in Austria have a very high level of industry, environmentally relevant measures have already been put in place very early and therefore the potential for savings is relatively low in us, in England, where one factory after another is locked – factories that have not been run positively anyway – there is from the outset an incredible potential for savings. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: It is not only about England, but also about everyone else!]] Of course, the allocation plan also has the function of ensuring Austria's economic location in a sustainable way, and sustainability – and we arrived at the next point – is also available in the environment. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: It's all about Europe, not just about England!]] I know the number: From 1990 to 2001, greenhouse gas emissions increased by 10 percent. We have a big problem here, but this allocation plan has succeeded in making sure that we are approaching the Kyoto target. Mr Oberhaidinger, you said that this was not transparent. You just need to go to the Internet and look, then you'll see: It's very transparent! You can see exactly who gets the allocations. There's no trace of a hiding game, as it was claimed. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger keeps a newspaper page up to date.]] Newspaper can be read to everyone! I expect a Member to see him first to see that he is well informed and only then comes out here and gives his presentation. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] The European Commission may well have made a positive decision when reviewing the allocation plan for greenhouse gas emission allowances. That there are points in this law that belong to adjusted ones, we take note of that. We have also taken immediate action to do so. What are these points or the necessary changes? – The first point is that certificates from decommissioned installations cannot be passed on to operated installations where the same holder is given. This has been corrected immediately. The second point is that, in the context of the allocation plan, there is a clarification among the authorities about who is responsible for what in the approval procedure. This demand has also been met in the process of innovation. I believe that if you are not against the fact that something positive is being done for the economy and the environment, and if this is still welcomed by all sides, then you can expect the opposition to agree to this, instead of simply criticizing it and proving it with justifications drawn from the hair. I think you have to consider the following: Austria is Environment Country Number One and therefore has less potential for savings. Austria sets out incredible funding measures – abroad, domestically – and it does everything to achieve the Kyoto goal – and we will achieve it. On the way there, a few things, where we make decisions, will also be able to give the greens and the reds the consent, for this government has made a demonstration policy in environmental policy. [[Abg. Krainer: Go, please!]] We will continue to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10453	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10471	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With the change of the Emissions Certificate Act into two small sub-areas, an important step in the climate strategy for Austria is being completed. We have committed ourselves to reducing CO2 emissions by 13 percent in Kyoto and the European Union's subsequent distribution mechanisms on the basis of 1990 – about 18 million tonnes – with a variety of different measures that policy can put into the framework. We have only made a very decisive point in the Council of Ministers today, namely on the issue of the addition of renewable raw materials to fossil energy sources. 5.75 percent are planned for 2008, combined with a tax incentive. This will enable us to achieve a million tonnes of CO2 reduction in the final phase of expansion in this core area, namely in the field of transport emissions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] We also have to respond in the field of space heating, in terms of energy efficiency. I also intend, immediately after the conclusion of the FAG negotiations in the promotion of housing, which has already been presented several times as secured, to implement the implementation with Article-15a agreements. Ladies and gentlemen! In the budget negotiations, we have achieved an increase of 30 million, an increase of 60 million and an increase of 90 million euros – plus 60 million and plus 90 million in the next two years. 60 million € and 90 million € alone for climate protection! I think that this is an important contribution to progressing in the strategy accordingly. The fourth point concerns emissions trading. Ladies and gentlemen! After long, quite difficult negotiations with this new economic instrument to achieve an ecological goal in Europe, we set standards. I can't understand that we're the last ones. On the contrary! We have taken into account the total amount allocated – and that is a question of sustainability – not only the ecological objective, but also the economic and social objective. I would not want to go deeper into how difficult it was to take all of this into account in the VOEST development plans, which go very ambitious by 2010. I do not want to say, especially in my capacity as Minister for the Environment: You have to evaluate these three pillars at the same time! We have an ecological goal in reducing CO2 and in covering, but we also have a different responsibility. The European Union, the Directorate-General for the Environment, has followed us in this argumentation on point by point. Our Emissions Certificate Act with the allocation plan has been found to be good by the Directorate-General for the Environment in the European Commission in Brussels up to two small points. The two points that have to be changed and which have already been addressed today have been adapted immediately so as to start 13 percent of the total emissions trading system in Austria for the first period – not for the target period – to achieve the minus. It's clear: The economy must also learn to deal with this economic instrument, and we will then, after the first two years, draw a first balance sheet in order to be able to draw the conclusions for the target period in the Emissions Certificate Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10536	The next item is the report by Mr Steier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10554	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was not until spring 2004 that the Emissions Certificate Act with the majority of government parties was adopted here in the House. Today, just under seven months later – and this is about sustainability – this law needs to be updated on the basis of a decision of the EU Commission on the Austrian allocation plan. The criticism of the broad guidelines of the Emissions Certificate Act was already massive in March 2004. In short: Clearly, it is not that contribution to climate change that we are imagining. Therefore, the question arises which half-life the current novelle has and when again repairs will be required. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The inconsistency of the government's climate change policy leads us to keep moving away from the Kyoto target instead of drawing closer to it. This shows both the current environmental control report and the UBA's Kyoto progress report for 2004. In 2002, Austria's greenhouse gases increased by 0.3 percent to 84.6 million tonnes, reaching 8.5 percent above the base year's value and 16.3 index points above the Kyoto target path. Ladies and gentlemen! I can still recall very vividly that in March 2004, Minister Pröll proposed to us that measures in the country should achieve a total reduction of 14 million tonnes: 4 million tonnes of space heat, 3.7 million tonnes of transport, 2.1 million tonnes of energy production and 1.25 million tonnes of industrial energy. [[Abg. Wittauer: These are the measures! ... have you failed, done nothing...!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wittauer.]] From today's point of view, Mr Wittauer, the assessment of concrete measures is as follows: Firstly, industry's CO2 emissions are becoming more than less; secondly, a new climate change plan, which has been agreed and financed with the countries; and thirdly, an old-age restructuring programme that, in addition to the climate protection aspect, could also secure 25 000 annual jobs, according to Wifo calculations, is missing. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Road transport accounted for 23.6 percent of emissions in 2002, making it the largest single source of greenhouse gases. [[Abg. Wittauer: Would you have...!]] This is why special attention should be paid to transport in particular. In the 2005 budget, however, concrete activities find little rainfall. Public transport as a climate alternative to the road is being neglected and increasingly diluted. Railway infrastructure, for which the Federal Government has to act, will be shortened, and transport funds will remain the same despite increased expenditure for 2005. [[Abg. Wittauer: 4.3 billion...!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Another uncertainty factor is the redistribution of emission rights for the period 2008 to 2012. This situation does not really help to stimulate businesses into long-term, environmentally friendly investments. [[Abg. Wittauer: 95 percent!]] In addition, the Emissions Certificate Act also lacks appropriate incentives. [[Abg. Krainer: (in the direction of Abg. Wittauer) Mr Wittauer, you'll be there twice again.]] Our demands for a dedicated promotion pot for special energy saving measures are not recognised. In summary, the Emissions Certificate Act remains “unsatisfying” even after this revision. That is why we will not agree to today's revision. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10655	The next speaker was Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10673	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! A few days ago, Russia finally signed the Kyoto Protocol after tough negotiations. [[Abg. Krainer: It has been signed for many years!]] This will allow the world's most important climate agreement to enter into force. Unfortunately, the US, China and Australia continue to refuse to sign this agreement. Air pollution does not lead to state frontiers Keep and can therefore only be managed jointly. Since you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, did not agree, the Emissions Certificate Act has entered into force without your consent. This law gives domestic industry and energy generation the opportunity to participate in Community-wide emissions trading as of 2005, and gives them an incentive to invest in low-gas production methods. In examining the Austrian allocation plan, the European Commission has now found that a scheme concerning the transfer of closed-down installations to existing installations of the same holder is incompatible with the Directive, but has agreed to the allocation plan with the requirement that this scheme be removed. This is the purpose of the proposed amendment of the Federal Government. In order to create legal certainty for investment owners, our Federal Minister will note that plants which have no or only low emissions because their production has been transferred to other plants of the same owner are not considered to be decommissioned. In addition, in the implementation of the ECG, in particular as regards the authorisation procedure, some provisions in practice have proved to be not clear enough. In particular, the competence of the authorities in the approval procedure and the minimum requirements for the approval application are affected. The regulations in the regulatory authorisation for the authorisation of independent test facilities will be found directly in the ECG in the future. Floods and droughts have caused us to see that climate change is also a threat to Austria. The energy and transport sectors are therefore set on market-oriented instruments such as emissions trading. However, it is important to act with caution and understanding in order to stop climate change on the one hand, but on the other hand to prevent economic growth on the other, because we need to learn to understand the economy not as an enemy of environmental policy, but as its partner. However, the major environmental challenges for the coming years are surely climate protection. The key issue for the future is sustainable energy supply. And, ladies and gentlemen, I am proud of Austria's leading position in the use of renewable energy sources! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The major problem is traffic, where there are huge increases. This is the main reason why CO2 emissions increased by 14.4 percent between 1990 and 2002. And here too, as the Minister has told us today, we have taken an important decision in the Council of Ministers, namely that an additional 5% has been decided by 2008. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Since 2002, transport has been the largest source of CO2 emissions. Before that, it was the industry. This shows that a proper step has been taken with the EZG. In air conservation, the OECD confirms a positive development in Austria. Climate protection remains the first priority of environmental policy. We and our Minister Sepp Pröll give the right answers with the strong development of green electricity, emissions trading or the adaptation of housing promotions.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10722	The next speaker was Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10740	Federal Minister! High house! ==References====External links== In May 2004, it entered into force, so to speak, a law baby. Even if Mr Pröll does not tire of stressing that only two tiny small points had to be changed, it is a fact that we must now renovate such a “fresh” law. [[Abg. Wittauer: No, no! This has been checked, we knew!]] The current Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein is still known as the Minister for the Environment for the Austrian climate protection target of minus 13 percent by 2008, 2012 on the basis of 1990. Minus – that's a reduction, isn't it? However, instead of reducing greenhouse gases, this law allows for an increase in CO2 emissions by 16.4 percent over the period 1998 to 2001. Mr Pröll has explained to us in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that this would be a possibility, but companies would not be asked to issue it. What's that? What kind of claim is that? Of course, they will be issued if they are allowed to issue! [[Abg. Wittauer: You didn't understand the law!]] That's probably not a question. [[Abg. Wittauer: We are talking about different laws, it seems!]] In these first international analyses, as already mentioned, we have also learned that the Austrian allocation plans have been given a bad witness, because these gifts of Bartenstein to the industry and to the electricity industry would mean that the other sectors would have to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions disproportionately. But how does this happen from your point of view, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen? They announce an increase in the share of renewable energy sources for electricity generation. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: From four to seven!]] By reducing wind power projects? Or how's that going? [[Abg. Wittauer: Hydropower works,...!]] The reduction of emissions from space heating use – you have already mentioned this Article 15a agreement – is an agreement we still have on them. The Wifo estimates the investment volume in the area of thermal rehabilitation to reach the Kyoto target at €530 million annually. By 2010 a total of €5 billion would be necessary, i.e. a little more than your 30/30/30 rule. An effort of € 2 billion in public resources would be necessary. This could increase the recovery rate from currently 0.5 to the necessary 2 percent and could save 750 000 tonnes of CO2 emissions and 120 million euros of energy costs. And: This creates 11 400 jobs! – These are calculations of the Wifo. [[Abg. Wittauer: Yes, it is not!]] At the beginning of the year, Minister Bartenstein proudly announced that the environment had already met the visions of the economy in some respects. [[Abg. Wittauer:... more than 30 percent growth!]] The industry demands a tougher wording in the law, or it has called for it not to face unpleasant surprises after its in-force steps. – Why, in fact, “uneasy surprises” if so many jobs could be created in the construction industry? In addition, effective measures to reduce CO2 emissions should be put out of the market, you have written in a request response. The increase in this area is at least 49 percent from 1990 to 2001! As this package is supposed to look, we do not know, even the creators of the ECOFYSeport! It has also not become clear to them how the Minister wants to achieve this objective, although he is very confident, still, as I hear again and again. However, the former Minister for the Environment, Current Economy will have to explain how the penalty payments will be made for the failure to achieve the Kyoto objective. This is at least 34 € per tonne of CO2. Minister! We see no improvement in the innovation of this very young law. The climate conferences of Marrakech and Johannesburg showed the need for rapid action. National action programmes are needed and required, but we perceive that the German Federal Government's climate strategy has remained at the conceptual stage.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10856	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Mr Achleitner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10875	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Rest-Hinterseer, it is of course quite clear that a whole package of measures is needed to reduce greenhouse gases. And one of these measures is trade and the allocation of emission certificates. It must also be clear that climate change cannot be achieved primarily by this emissions trading, since we know that the largest rate of increase in greenhouse gases can be recorded in the transport sector. Since 1990, transport has increased CO2 emissions by more than 45 percent, i.e. more than half. The Austrian allocation plan provides a good balance between climate change and economic development. And you can see that both are possible. It has also been approved by the EU, with certain conditions, but these are minor amendments which are now in place in the revision of this law. [[Abg. Krainer:... a little stupid what you're saying!]] - You laugh at the SPÖ. [[Abg. Bayr: It's sad, it's true!]] It has just been mentioned by Mr Steier about an inconsistent environmental policy. Mr Oberhaidinger mentioned earlier that the government's environmental policy was too economic-friendly. I then ask you what you say about the statement of the head of state from Upper Austria, Erich Haider, who was on 24 June. In March, the Federal Government's allocation plans meant that valuable industrial jobs at the Oberösterreich economic location would be massively at risk. [[Abg. Krainer: What does this have to do with traffic?]] It is therefore important that a certain amount of compensation is found, both by the environment and by industry and the economy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Krainer! We're talking about the allocation plans, and there's conflicting opinion between you. [[Abg. Krainer: You talked about traffic!]] It is not only the case that these allocations are purchased, but also businesses are stopped to reduce emissions, as they can, of course, reduce their exhaust gases through environmentally friendly productions and low-gas production methods and therefore do not have to buy expensive certificates. Ladies and gentlemen! Responsible climate policy must use all possible measures to achieve climate change and reduce greenhouse gases. Emissions trading is one of these measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10957	The next speaker was Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e10976	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr President! The Emissions Certificate Act was adopted here in the early summer of the House, and it is now being updated on the basis of a decision by the European Commission; we have already heard it. The problem is that the novelle we are discussing does not improve the climate situation in the spirit of this law or, in fact, what is worse or worse. That is our real criticism. In the full climate policy, the Black and Blue Federal Government is very short-lived on the road. We are further away than ever from meeting our Kyoto target. How the commitments will be settled by 2010, 2012 I have not yet heard any truly coherent concept. They treat – and that is, I believe, the Krux on the matter – climate protection as an incredible burden and not as an opportunity for the whole country. For example – often quoted –: The economic research institute expects us to create 2 500 annual jobs through old house renovation alone. This would be an incredibly high contribution to climate protection. We know that from Vienna, where there is a program called THEWOSAN; with this we have experienced the best. It is obvious that it is not possible to get into the minds that it would be very important, especially in the field of transport, where CO2 taxation is the most, most progressive, to take effective measures and increase public transport, quite simply! [[Abg. Wittauer: Where?]] [[Abg. Wittauer: Mrs Deputies! Solution approaches!]] And it is obvious that it is not in the minds that it is necessary to have a negotiated, funded programme with countries and states on the issue of climate protection. [[Abg. Wittauer: We do! Housing promotion...!]] In short, a lot of unforgivable failures have happened on your side! And this novelle does not improve the allocation plan – quite the contrary, we expect that, as soon as the notices are delivered, there will be an insidious running to the courts; there will be oppositions to the award notices, and it is still unclear how the Federal Award Office will decide in terms of registry service and whether it will be at all possible to actually start on time to the in-force step of the law with the allocation; that is all totally unclear! – nor, and above all, and this is the main problem, will you bring about, neither with the law in old form nor with that in noble form, any type of CO2 reduction. That's the real Krux! From our point of view, this novelle is simply not acceptable.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e11039	As the next speaker, Mr Bauer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e11057	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the often quoted "achievement" of the Kyoto target: It will not be possible in any way, even if you are taking the necessary measures very quickly now, because we have gone further and further away – instead of 13 percent minus, we are in fact confronted with a reduction of 23 percent in this period due to the increase by 10 percent. So, Mr Federal Minister, despite the very many efforts that are quite positive, it will hardly succeed. Nor do I think that this novel is one that, as you have said, is experiencing a small correction. In fact, there is more to it, because it has not been possible to put in place those measures which could be treated in the same way with this novelle. I think this gradual decline from a pioneering role in the environment in Europe... [[Abg. Wittauer:... proof of number 1!]] In the 1970s and 1980s, we had the absolute pioneering role. Now we've slipped into the middle field. You can discuss... – No, no! [[Abg. Wittauer: Number 1! We're still number one!]] One can discuss what one wants: from a pioneer country a country became in a middle position! And that is a wrong environmental policy! I would particularly like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that we have not fixed the fundamental errors in CO2 emissions today and that this will not cause industry to strive for substantial reductions in CO2 taxation. Emissions trading, which is always so positively represented, can also be understood by many as free purchase. [[Abg. Wittauer: Head of State Office Haider in Upper Austria has said: not enough!]] This means that this misunderstanding free buy-out is actually an emission trading operation, where only “hot air” is transported and does not bring about a real reduction in pollutants. I am very glad that Russia has ratified the Kyoto Protocol. That's okay! But if, for example, Russia has a lot of certificates because they were calculated on a basis where the Soviet empire existed and large quantities of pollutants were blown into the air, this means that they can sell emission certificates today. And we're dealing with it without anything happening at home. That is why I believe that the whole thing must be seen as a transitional situation, while – I would like to mention this – a small contribution is made; However, environmental protection is best done where it is also noticeable to people in their own country. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] If we continue to pursue policies, we miss the 80 percent reduction target. This means that we have to spend almost €200 million on it. These €200 million are spent by those who have nothing of it, namely the people who live in Austria and cannot enjoy the clean environment. This disadvantage should be recognized, even if one speaks of emissions trading. For me, the best environmental protection investment is the one taking place in my own country. In this sense, it is not to be understood as a free purchase for environmental policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e11126	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 658 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – The draft law is largely adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law also receives the consent of the House at third reading. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Josef Cap, Members of Parliament, to the Federal Minister for Finance on the waste of fiscal resources and the disposal of state resources (2248/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e11176	We now come to the urgent debate on the written question 2248/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e11307	I give the floor to Mr Dr. Cap as the first questioner to justify the urgent question. His speaking time is 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e11325	In the previous debate, Mr Finz – probably already in the light of our urgent request – has already referred a little to the first question of this urgent reference, namely the fact that the draft government of the Federal Finance Act 2005 now provides for the absolute highest debt in the history of the Republic of Austria for the 2005 budget year. I know you hate to hear that, but you can't say it often enough because you forget quite quickly on this matter. I can tell you the answer: In 2000, the total financial debt of the federal government amounted to €120.7 billion, and by the end of 2005, the financial debt will amount to approximately €140.9 billion. This is a plus of €20.2 billion in five years. Do you want to hear it in Schilling? That's almost 300 billion schilling. What are you saying? – Now silence is on the right side of this house. This has to be put very slowly in the brain corridors, that you are actually responsible for one of the highest debt levels. I hope you have contributed to this, Mr Financiary Secretary, because you did so before. You have always talked about the last 30 years, sometime you will talk about the Romans. You should take care of the last four years that this black and blue government has to answer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our urgent question is entitled “Inquiry to the Federal Minister for Finance on the waste of fiscal resources and the concealment of state resources”. I mean, the title is even subverted, but he essentially describes what we think it is about. First of all, I come to the important aspect of external consultation. I wonder, Why Needed Do you even have an external consultation? – Your ministry has the best officials in the Republic and great departments. Worked, motivated people are active in the Ministry of Finance, at least we knew it when we were still in the Ministry of Finance. I don't know what happened in the meantime, but at the time there were highly qualified officials. [[Abg. Neudeck: Why did you have such bad budgets?]] If you've been there since 4. Since your appointment, Mr. Minister, on February 15, 2000, paid at least €15.36 million for external consulting, I ask the following questions: What to do Are you even yourself? What else are you sitting in there for? What did you decide for yourself? For what do we have a bloating of the staff's costs in the individual department, so also at your place of business? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] In addition, it must be taken into account that there are fees on the one hand, which I have just told you about, and on the other hand at the same time the in-house officials continue to pay. What are they actually paid for? What are they doing in the departments, Mr. Finanzminister? Do you try to get to your homepage if there is an Internet disorder? What are these people doing? What tasks do they actually have to perform? – Tell us that when you answer our questions! The number of staff has been increased in all ministerial offices. Some have top incomes of up to €15 000, employees, employees sit in up to eight supervisory councils. Every Monday, there must be a distribution meeting for jobs, for supervisory councils, for places where you're staying somewhere someone you're facing. [[Abg. Neudeck: Are you leaving?]] – They have historically changed their course. While they are getting narrower and smaller here in this house – not physically seen – they have come up to fight against privileges, as far as I remember correctly. But what I'm registering now is the pure opposite of it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Rerule!]] If you don't have a political fit, they'll be put into retirement for hundreds, as you did, or sent to a karenz vacation. There were Haider and Ewald Stadler sitting, who had been given such a thick neck, they would have cried out if they had heard that officials were retired or sent to the karenz leave. [[making a corresponding hand motion]] What would they have told them?- Oh, my God! Now you have to find him somewhere in the Carinthian valleys if you want to hear from him. [[Abg. Scheibner: Good coalition!]] But you're all sitting in the famous position: My name is rabbit, and I don't know anything, and I don't see everything and stand up with closed eyes and closed ears when decisions of the government are adopted again! – That’s the truth! You've been miles away from your historical claim. What did this action cost the Republic of Austria? – At that time she had the title “ Chance 55”. All this happened against the background: more work, later retirement and shorter pensions in this country. You take the pensioner permanently once in the left and once in the right pocket. No one can go straight on the street anymore because he always has the hands of the Minister of Finance in one of the two pockets. Against this background you have chosen the cynical title “ Chance 55”. So after the foreign exchange: Come here, guys, who we don't want you anymore for political reasons, take your chance, and flea out of the ministry! Who pays that? – The taxpayer pays for it, the taxpayer pays it. The order of magnitude is € 350 million. Put all this in relation to your quantification decisions perhaps in the health reform! Put all this in relation once! But this is not just about this area, there are still quite others. The Ministry of the Interior, which is not the subject of the request today, goes to the tens of thousands. Twelve thousand posts are re-opened, 30,000 under the direct command of the Minister of the Interior. But I do not want to spread this in detail now, with which we will have to deal separately again anyway. But it always has to pay Mrs. Austrian and Mr. Austrian. Those who sit up in the last and last series of those above should pursue this material, not only because, like everyone else here, you have to explain these abuses in their constituencies and defend the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for these measures, but also for the following reason: [[Abg. Neudeck: She won't be there anymore, we've already heard that!]] If this is also the subject of the discussion on the election day, then you will not sit here in the last and last series afterwards! I don’t know where you’re going to sit relaxed, but certainly not here – I can tell you that!” – when this policy continues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Mr Cap, this is an old speech!]] But let's continue the whole thing: What a cry there has always been in the appointment or withdrawal of supervisory councils and board members in the state economy! This was often the subject of public discussion for weeks. What have you done since 2000? – You were the Employment Act 1998 Wurst – you even contributed to it! I remember when we even sat in the big coalition! The contract stencil order was Wursch – everything Wursch! – A toll house with salaries, expenses compensation and fees for ÖIAG conductive organs has come out. Cost: € 1.4 million, as at February 2000. You can add that if something new has been added. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Strings!]] I give you the chance that you will be able to make a constructive contribution to the debate. What's going on? – This will be done according to the motto: Now we are in power, now we can occupy posts, now we can distribute privileges, now we can finally spend taxes that we push out Austrians at last unbridled! – That’s your political understanding! The symbol figure is here on the government bank: Minister of Finance Grasser and his assistant, State Secretary Finz, who always has a box of Persian.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e11468	Mr President, I should like to thank “Helpers” comes from crime!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e11483	Then I only say “helper” and leave “helpers” – the genius – and stay only with “helpers”. – His faithful assistant State Secretary Finz is always helpful to him. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: As the Schelm thinks, he is!]] - Sculpture! How do you assess the sale of the federal housing companies? – This is state assets that have been irrevocably sold out. Now I come back to the consulting costs: Counselling costs of 10.9 million €! What did the advisor do about 140 million schilling, can you explain this to me? He said once a day: Sale Do you sell the apartments – again 10 million – again 10 million? How's it going? - Explain that to me! [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] They are actually those superprivatizers, the private economic experts who dance on the private world markets. The representatives of the World Bank ask once a month when you finally have time to work with you because you are such a genius. Nevertheless, for the simple sale of the federal housing company, you need consultancy companies with consulting costs of 10.9 million €! It's inconceivable what you spent on it! [[Call the SPÖ:Friendly economy!]] We could also be almost seminary. Continue your privatisation attempts or privatisation steps that you have made: Look a bit into the stock exchange, get hot fingers, go back, and then the accusation of insider trading comes. – By the way, what happened when we said: Please explain this at last. The powers of financial market supervision should be extended to include, if any, an investigation committee. What has happened to the whole thing except that the Swiss have retreated? – The coat of silence and nothing else! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Joseph, the SPÖ is already asleep!]] This is not the way to act as a Minister of Finance! This is not the way to act as a representative of a government! The Austrian population has truly not deserved that! Return to the advisory area: You said the famous sentence: A consultant deserves himself! – Well, that’s pretty cynical, I’m telling you, especially by the privatisation steps of the DDSG’s residual assets. A consulting firm, as we wrote in the urgent request, was commissioned with a kind of negotiating assistance, and the cost of this performance was – lasily compared to the other – € 10 000 at the time. Then you said that the savings potential was at the same time the purchase price. That was almost cabaret-like! I would advise Mr Steinhauer and colleagues that they should hold a grass cabaret once. You, Mr State Secretary, should also be present, because you look so greedyly! You should also have a place in it! You're in factsiamese twins that appear here. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That would be better for you than the current one, I believe! Friendship!]] That is, the potential for saving is the level of sales price! What do the professional “private economic operators” in the EIA say when such a result finally comes true? Let's get to the next point. I am surprised that you are even present at the emergency, Mr. Finanzminister! I thought you had another trial ride with one of the Audis you were buying. What I have heard in this way is to be purchased 40 Audi 8. [[Abg. Neudeck: What are you driving a car?]] – I have a Xantia Turbo Diesel 1,9, eight years old. I'd like to take you with me if you want. [[Abg. Neudeck: No, thank you!]] This is a very good car, I can really recommend it! To be honest: I also come from A to B! [[Abg. Neudeck: Klubobmann Gusenbauer?]] I don't have any problems, but don't go so far as to recommend Citroën's to the government now, otherwise I'd have to change the car brand, and I don't want to. [[Abg. Neudeck: Klubobmann Gusenbauer?]] Concentrate You've got to go! I hear it's 40 Audi 8. In advertising it says: sporty and luxurious, and there are different models. [[Abg. Neudeck: You are very after the time!]] There are different models as we know. My question is: Why Needed You're 40 Audi 8? By the way, why does that even have to be this car type, what is so fascinating about it? – You have to explain that to me! [[Abg. Neudeck: What is Gusenbauer doing?]] That doesn't mean I'm against a reasonable solution for service cars when a member of the government has to go somewhere, that doesn't bother me! The number of 40 Audi 8 is nevertheless remarkable! The gross price varies between € 70 000 and € 140 000. Federal Chancellor Schüssel would say in his usual exaggerating language: € 70 000 for the Audi 8 and € 140 000 for the slightly up-to-date middle-class car. In any case, for this fleet you need € 2 million of taxpayers, Mr. Finanzminister! It is a highly interesting question, which should be clarified in this context, whether in times when we say to the Austrians, it must be saved, in which there is in fact no area of the Austrian social state, where you do not say: There must be saved!, you must purchase 40 Audis. [[Abg. Parnigoni: 40 Audis, so many ministers and state secretaries don't exist at all! Is Scheibner getting one, too?]] With the procurement of these service cars, with the bloating of the equipment in each department, with increasing representation costs and increasing consulting costs Get the money out of the window. – This is highly immoral, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Androsch was with the special manufacture!]] Now we come to an area for which I almost understand, I say it quite honestly. You should take a veneration of peace, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, because I am just signaling understanding of the PR activities. If I have such an image as the Minister of Finance, I ask myself: Who doesn't think about a PR company and engages in the motto: [[Abg. Neudeck: Now we come to it: You are to blame, you cause the costs!]] I can't change politics anymore, and I can't change myself, because I'm like myself, but a good PR company might change a bit!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Please, take a picture of yourself whether this PR company would have a chance! – Always a joke on the lips in the third last row. [[Abg. Hornek:... spend 100 times more because he wants to be better than cast builder!]] I'll tell you that, too! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at SPÖ.]] Since 2000, € 8.5 million has been used exclusively for advertising for Minister of Finance Grasser. – I always have to convert the amounts into the old currency, then the figures are much clearer. – 100 million schillings were spent, and the popularity is only one third. What is this about, Mr. Finanzminister? Have you changed the company in the meantime? [[Abg. Scheibner: On the change of party!]] I also look at the rankings, I also find them fascinating: At first you were in the front, then only more in the middle field – always with this slight slide trend. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was the change of party!]] The magazines put down a layer soap, and again one falls down one place further. That was worth 100 million: only more than one third Popularity of the past? Or is it because of the politics that people have said: He always says you should save, but even he doesn't want to save, he says: Dear Austrians, what about your tax morals?, finally pays taxes honestly and uprightly, for if I don't pay them already, at least you pay them!? – I understand! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Now I'm gonna tell you something: We do not want to forget the story with the Financial Times! €60,000 were spent, only to be able to wave his counterfee and a text selected by him to Wall Street. That was worth 60,000 €? Add 60 000 €! He makes a New York visit, is represented in the Financial Times, and wins it. [[Abg. Neudeck: You can't even do this by 200 000!]] In view of the background we are in front of now, I must say: I really don't understand for that! We have to make this happen again and again, in which environment all this is going on! I'll tell you: I'm really trying to see and judge this realistically now, and not, as you always do, Haider and Stadler, from the populist Antidingsda, almost anti-political perspective. No, no, no, I am concerned that we are constructively involved in this issue, too. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] You're supposed to understand that. As a former government party, we understand that certain things have to be done, that certain needs of everyday life are also in a position of government. That is not the case, we do not have fundamentalist access. But what is happening there is really to be classified in the category “Worship and waste of taxpayers”, especially against the background of the 44 loads. Federal Managing Director Darabos has mentioned 44 loads for the time being, now there will be more; only on this day there will be some more again, perhaps in an hour there will be another biterl. Against this background, this can be seen! In addition, I am interested – one last point – in the following: Before us are the anniversary year 2005 and the Austrian EU Presidency in 2006. We now know that the entire government has spent almost 1 billion schillings on consulting and advertising since the start of its activity. 72 million €! That is why we would like to know more precisely: What will happen with the approach for the 2005 anniversary year, for this planned “cusine year ”? It will hopefully be more than what you plan, a just one-year advertising event for the “greatest” and “best” government of all time. We already want more, it should really be commemorative, really political reprocessing, really political reflection. What is to happen to the money that has been estimated for this purpose? That's what you should tell us now. That should also be normized, and there should be rules for that. The same applies to the Austrian EU Presidency in 2006. Please, no advertising campaign: President-in-Office of the Council – the best President-in-Office the EU has ever had! [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] Cheers, cheers, cheers! Incense, incense, incense! Precisely, that's the reflex, I just wanted to test if it's still working. They only say “Jobel”, “Schüssel, ” and you already get a corner in both hands. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Wonderful, you're well trained, it still works. They will admit to us that at least we want to know exactly what is to happen in this area. Is this in the interest of taxpayers? If the money is handled responsibly, or if only the continuation of what you have done since the start of government is planned, that is to say that people are getting a little prelude, measuring with two measures, throwing out the money and pressing the Austrians out of the bag!Unknown term type: "%s".? I'm sure we won't play there!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e11782	To answer the urgent question, the Federal Minister for Finance spoke. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. – Mr Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e11800	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! I should like to thank the honourable Member Cap for once again having the opportunity to inform the House in full about how this federal government is being sparingly dealing with taxpayer's money, how successful our budgetary policy is in international comparison and how we can reduce taxes and taxes more effectively than any federal government in front of us. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP and the Free Trade Unions]] We have the strongest increase in real income for many years next year. – Good for the population: more money in the wallet! Good for the economy: more investment! Even today we can tell you: 2005 – a good year for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Question 1 – in order to address your questions that have been asked differently this time again – I can answer with two quotations from the “Time in Picture 2” so that I may cite suspicious witnesses, from 13th century onwards. October 2004, about a month old. At that time, Ms. Thurnher asked Professor Felder, the head of the Institute for Higher Studies, – I quote –: Now the opposition argues that, despite many tax increases so far, the sale of many government shares would be higher deficits in absolute terms next year than at the beginning of Grasser's term of office, while unemployment would be higher. Is there anything about this argument? Professor Felder – Quote of the Professor –: I can actually fail to understand this because we have to see it in relation to GDP, to gross domestic product. And here it is that we need to see other numbers. In relation to gross domestic product, this is different, i.e. not the way it has just been said. The numbers are all deflational. We have more income each year, we also have more tax revenue every year, we have more production every year, so you can not compare absolute numbers – like you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ – in your request – in my opinion – so Felder – but only the relation to gross domestic product, and there the matter looks different. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! There the thing looks quite different! They handed us 66.5 percent debt, Austria was the fourth worst country in the euro zone. We have reduced these debts from 66.5 to 63.7 percent and are now the seventh best country in the euro area. – This is our policy! Not record level, but reduction! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's how it looks!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In all these figures, this economy, whether it is the European Union, whether it is the International Monetary Fund, whether it is the OECD, whether it is about any relevant international debate, Mr Cap, it is about financial debt, about debt ratios. Mr Cap put himself out here and said: Record debt! I only believe in the statistics that I, the Economist Cap, have made myself, only that will be good and right! [[Abg. May. Molterer: He's no one!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Cap! I think you should be like any economist in this world maybe once... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's not an economist!]] I wanted to be charming now and to put honourable Mr Cap under exceptional competence. Mr Cap! Like all the others who have international debates, we should agree on what we argue on the basis of debt ratios, and on this: These debt ratios have been reduced and not increased! [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have not been lowered!]] Ladies and gentlemen. They questioned: How did the debt increase in absolute numbers? I should like to tell you what our cornerstones of financial and economic policy were. First of all, we said: We stand for solid state finances! We have undertaken to make a zero deficit, and if you are honest, you must say that you never thought that this federal government is able to achieve this zero deficit. We made it in 2001 and in 2002 there was a very small deficit of 0.2 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] Take the comparison over the years 1976 to 1999, that time when Social Democratic Finance Ministers and Chancellors were responsible! They have made an average deficit of 3.1 percent per year. On average every year, over 25 years, 3.1 percent deficit! [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Such an inflated nonsense!]] We have a deficit of 0.9 percent with Alfred Finz in our time. That means, and that's what I have to tell you: This is another league of financial policy! We have simply made it dramatically better, solid state finances, no more money spent than taken in. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is not the truth that you are spreading here!]] – Mr deputies, count Please, check it out! The average figures from 1976 to 1999 are 3.1 percent deficit; a relatively simple calculation. [[Abg. Eder: Once the truth when you say!]] The figures from 2000 to 2005 show a deficit of 0.9 percent. That's the truth, these are the facts, even if you just want to believe it hard, because you can't see that your policy has produced very high deficits. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Eder: That's wrong again!]] Second point: We said we'd cut the taxes. – Ladies and gentlemen! We had almost 45 percent tax rate, because your way was: everything by the state, a redistribution: Taxes up, as little as possible in the pockets of the population. We lower the tax rate. [[Abg. Eder: That's not true! It's a shame again!]] The tax rate in 1999 was 43.7%, the tax rate in 2005 was 41.7%, and the following year was 40.6 percent. We are the Federal Government which has the most lowered taxes and taxes, because we say: More money in the people's wallets! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Cap, if you look out here and question: Who is how well the taxpayer's money is? Then I'd like to say: [[Abg. Sburny: Who's in the wallet now? Tell me who!]] Let us look, for example, at the Federal Finance Agency! We all know that the state must refinance itself that it must finance its debts accordingly. The Federal Finance Agency also does this by refinancing a part in Swiss francs and Yen. Between 1993 and 1999, i.e. in the responsibility of Socialist Minister of Finance, €855 million has been lost compared to Schilling and Euro finance. In the period from 2000 to now, €3.9 billion has been won. €855 million lost by your policy – €3.9 billion, €3 900 million won by a wise refinancing policy of the Austrian Federal Finance Agency! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What is being offered here is an absolute naughtiness! That's incredible! That's unbearable!]] Finally, I should like to say to you that: You called a debt number. I bring it even higher, namely the general government, and this is € 155 billion in 2005. You handed us a debt of € 133 billion in 1999. Now you're saying, Record level! I told you to argue with debt ratios, and I also say to you, Mr Cap, if you argue in this way and say that in absolute terms we would have the highest debt at all: with the probability of 25 years of social-democratic financial policy! [[Abg. Eder: fairy tales!]] If you had continued in this way for the last five years, we would now have debt of € 182 billion! That's what we've done in the budget section. [[Abg. Eder: fairy tales!]] That means if you'd been responsible for the last five years, we'd have to pay €27 billion more than now. We have clearly made the better financial policy whether you want to hear it or not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] On Question No 2, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, as far as Question 2 is concerned, I have to make an interpretation of the question because it is not quite clear. I can do it so I say: By ‘state debt’ you mean the ‘national debt in the general sense’ and the ‘sale of state assets’ I define that you mean the ‘power of the federal government’. If so, I may answer the question as follows: In the Federal Republic of Germany, for example, by privatisation, the sale of the federal housing companies generated revenue of just over € 1 billion. In addition, revenues from the divestments of land and land in the amount of approximately €2.7 billion were collected. That means, on your question: How high would the state of public debt have been if one had not been sold? would have been to say: The amount would be approximately € 155 billion compared to € 158.7 billion; Definition: General government debt. Question 3: Which budgets Does the sale of, for example, federal housing companies have effects? We have as far as possible sold out the five federal housing companies – as you know and, as I hope, I also hope, also. We have achieved a total transaction income of € 2 billion 639 million, of which a cash purchase price of € 1 billion is € 16 million. This cash purchase price will be €601 million in 2004 and €415 million in 2005. Mr Cap, you have turned out here and criticised this process. Therefore, first of all, I should like to say: This is why we have privatized because, in our view, the state is not a good businessman, because housing and housing are not the core business of the state and because we want to depoliticize social housing. [[Abg. Bures: Kill!]] We have done this very professionally by using a committee of experts. We have informed Parliament very comprehensively, we have secured the interests of the tenants, and we have thus guaranteed a professional settlement. For the first time, we have guaranteed tenants' rights, we have achieved the highest possible price at the second time, and we have far exceeded the Court of Auditors' requirements, at least €500 to 600 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] We have achieved €106 million in cash, the total transaction income is €2 639 million, and, Mrs Bures, we have reached an Austrian solution in the area of federal housing companies, so that no one can say anything is sold abroad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can't spare one of you, honourable Member, if you make yourself here and criticize the Federal Government. That is good, that is all right, that is the task of the opposition, but then one has to take note of it, Mr Gusenbauer, one has to take note that the Social Democratic Group, in particular Mr Eder, has made a request – I could already present it to you – that it wants to sell three housing companies, namely for the nominal of about 180 million Schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: And above all justified!]] [[Abg. Eder: But didn't want to get hurt!]] [[New call of the abg. Bures.]] – Yes, to a housing company in the sphere of social democracy or the trade union. They wanted to move the taxpayer's assets into the property of the trade union or the party. [[Call the ÖVP:Hear! Listen!]] [[Abg. Eder: That has nothing to do with it at all!]] They wanted to sell something – Professor Van der Bellen, who now smiles slightly, knows this precisely because he also asked questions on this subject at the time – you wanted to sell something for 180 million Schilling, which according to requests from Minister of Finance Edlinger was worth more than 12 billion schilling. So, please, you can always criticize, but don't ever take the floor here to say: We've made it much better! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you wanted to sell 12 billion Schilling assets of the taxpayer, 12 billion assets, 12 000 million schilling, to the union or to social democracy for 180 million schilling! [[Abg. Bures: And you got 1 billion!]] I have to tell you that this is so unacceptable that we will never come to the idea of dealing so carelessly and without responsibility with the assets of the taxpayer. [[Abg. Eder: Not at all!]] That is not in question with us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Why didn't you reach the 12 billion?]] Deputies! Why didn't I reach 12 billion? – Because we achieved a total proceeds of €2 billion, €639 million. If you charge €2.6 billion on Schilling, you will find that this is well beyond the 30-billion-earth schilling. That means we didn't give up on 12 billion schillings, but we got a lot more. – A very good sales proceed for the taxpayer! Thank you for recognizing this. This is important to me, and no social democracy has done so far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder: A total nonsense!]] Obviously, we have really privatized well. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Once in Schilling, once in Euro!]] – Member of Parliament! I know you are so flexible that you can juggle between Schilling and Euro. Ladies and gentlemen! Question 3 I can also answer as follows: As regards the shares of property in the Federal Property Company, I inform you, provided that the sale by the BIG of federal properties transferred to the Federal Property Company is meant by the Federal Ministry of Finance of sales revenues of approximately € 53.4 million during the period between 2000 and 2004. If the question of the sale of federal properties to the BIG in accordance with the Federal Property Act of 2000 is to be understood, the sale proceeds from 2000 to 2004 amount to a total of €2.7 billion. On Question 4 – You also do not ask very precise questions here, I am still trying to answer –: In what form and amount have public debt been eliminated by the sale of ÖIAG shares? Of course we did not sell ÖIAG shares! . I'm just saying that, you probably won't have meant it that way either. If you meant: What shares, which shares the ÖIAG holds, have we sold?, then I may reply as follows: We took over debts of €6.3 billion in the ÖIAG. This debt of €6.3 billion is compared to assets of €5 billion. In other words, there was an undercover of €1.3 billion at the time; there was a net debt if you sold everything. Today we have debt of €1.79 billion in the ÖIAG, and we have a portfolio – that is, what is still net, although we have privatized by more than €3 billion – of just under €6 billion, €5.98 billion. That is, we now have a cover – the assets are much higher than the debts that are still there – of € 4.2 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! You handed us an undercover of €1.3 billion. We now have a cover of €4.2 billion. That means we have created €5.5 billion in capital growth for the taxpayer. 5 500 million €! Now you know what happens to consulting funds in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr deputies, you are asking what happened to these funds. – We have repaid so many debts that for the first time we were able to serve the interest service from the ÖIAG itself. That is, the ÖIAG, which has always been in the red figures, is for the first time rehabilitated in business terms, is in black numbers. In your time, from 1993 to 2002, the ÖIAG could not issue any dividends to the Republic, because one has always written only minus numbers, always only red numbers, for over ten years! We have managed, in our time it has succeeded – you have to imagine that! – that we received the first dividends in 2003, in 2004 the next dividends, 2005, in the next budget, we have € 250 million in dividends of the ÖIAG. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You prescribed it, don't get it! That's a difference!]] If you ask what the shareholders have delivered to dividends: From 1996 to 1999, in your time, you have received € 301 million in dividends. In our time, from 2000 to 2004, we received 1 billion € in dividends. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] This means more than tripled dividends. I have to come back to the question: What happens to consulting funds, how is the money invested? – We are not talking about millions of people, Mr Cap, that we are talking about billions that we have either saved the taxpayer or created additional assets. This is a policy that can be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Why do everyone have to pay more and more for less and less?- Oh, my God!]] Question 5: Mr Cap has answered all the questions that have come in the call, not those that he is driving himself and which Clubobmann Gusenbauer is driving. To the van. First point: Mr Cap, you know, of course, that there is no longer any ‘car registration plan’, so I do not have to approve the purchase of the former category 3. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Who then?]] Second point: I have a list here which vehicles in this Republic from Vranckky to climate – I can go back to Androsch if you want, Lacina, I have all been driven here. I have to tell you: If you look at the prices, for example at list prices of € 74 000, from € 83 000. And if you pretend the Audi A8 is the innovation of this federal government: I took over my colleague Ruttenstorfer's Audi A8, and continued with his Audi A8. Of course you did the same with Audi A8, of course you drove 730 BMW. I'm telling you honestly: I don't even find anything about it. For if you are 50 000, 60 000, 70 000, 100 000 kilometers a year, we should have a debate on whether to go with a VW golf or something else? I am against the fact that we have a debate of envy here in the House. I mean, you should say, Security is worth it to us, we are trying to get in front of the people and justify it, that is good to argue, because no one is easily dealing with the tax money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mandak]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can tell you the following: First: This is not the purchase of 40 cars. I'm glad I can make this clear. There are not 40 cars purchased, but it is a framework contract concluded by Bundesbebewerb GmbH with Volkswagen and Audi. This works so that 20 government vehicles can be accessed in the next four years if necessary. This is 16 Audi A8 and 4 Audi A6 – none has to be called, it can be retrieved! 20 other vehicles, i.e. the rest on the 40, can be retrieved by other local authorities or by outsourced companies. The cost saving compared to the list price for an Audi A8 is 38 percent, for an Audi A6 it is 22 percent. That is why I can try to be truly unemotional: For 30 years you bought at least as expensive cars. They have not tried to reduce the costs very significantly. [[Abg. May. Darabos: Who are we?]] What we have with this framework agreement is an agreement that ensures that we buy a standard vehicle – no luxury, no sniper, no expensive special equipment – get the best possible price, get the best possible maintenance costs, get the best possible warranty. And that's where I tell you: To this price envy us many, we probably envy you too. – Smart negotiates for the taxpayer because we treat the taxpayer's money very, very carefully! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another number, Mr Cap, for the evening lessons: We come at a total cost of 40 cents per kilometre – 40 cents per kilometre, which corresponds to, normally acquired in the free economy, the cost of an Audi A4, which causes it to run for three years, 180 000 kilometers per kilometre. That's our negotiation success! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] Questions 6 to 8: This is about PR activities, information work – you say "advertising". – I can hold very clearly: We do not, of course, advertise, Mr Cap, but we do provide information on site topics for the population. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Of course not!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: “Very” informative!]] Whoever does not believe us the information, I may, because there are some calls for call, come from a questioning response of the power. Climate from the XX. Reading the legislative period – I quote Viktor Klima –: [[Abg. Bures: Answer question 6!]] "In principle, it should be noted that the information activity of the Federal Government is not about advertising, but about public relations, which are subject to the principle of comprehensive information and easy access to it for interested citizens. For 1998, the Section III/Bundespressedienst für die Allgemeine Publicitätswerk... 33,493,000,– was allocated by the National Council. As part of the authorisation to the Federal Finance Act 1998, an amount of... 128,804.180, 23 was spent on the European Information Initiative of the Federal Government by the Section III/Bundespressedienst in 1998.” – Viktor Klima. [[Abg. May. Worm: Schilling or Euro?]] I would also like to say quite openly to you about this information work: Of course... [[Abg. May. Worm: Old currency or new?]] – At that time, Schilling, because Viktor answered climate in Schilling. I would never falsify your Federal Chancellor. Citations should remain, Mrs Deputies! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] As far as information work is concerned, I say quite openly to you – you rightly criticize it at times: I believe it is important that it is necessary to inform the people about the reform activity of the Federal Government, because if you want to have a “co-operation” of the population, if you want to understand the population, you have to explain it. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Because the population does not automatically come upon it...!]] And it is the right of the population and the obligation of the Federal Government to present the activities of the Federal Government to the public accordingly. [[Abg. Bures: Question 6!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Bures: Answer question 6!]] They question the amount of expenses. I can tell you: 1998 to 2000: Rudolf Edlinger spent an average of €2 276,000 a year. In my term of office, on average, € 1 258 000 per year, about half of Minister Edlinger. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] Second point, per forma informed: Representation expenses: Average per year under Rudolf Edlinger 80 000 €, average per year with us 55 000 €. So much less here, too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] It is therefore very clear that these questions can be addressed very clearly: We deal with the taxpayer's money very carefully. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Pays the rest of the homepage?]] If you take the anniversary year – Mr Gusenbauer, Mr. Gusenbauer, a short time back to the seriousness – if you question the anniversary year 2005 – that costs something I give quite openly – I can tell you that, for example, German Chancellor Vrnitzky said in 1995 – at the time there was criticism at the anniversary year 1995 – that the Republic will commit its holidays in “good sense” and “worthy form”, not too elaborate, not martial, but with content and charm. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That costs something too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: From you, right?]] He, Vrannitzky, is of the opinion that one will take this opportunity with propriety and dignity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] Now I am simply trying to find a consensus across the party borders that, in view of the anniversary year 2005 – 60 years Second Republic, 50 years of State Treaty, ten years of Austrian membership of the European Union – plus the first half of 2006, the Austrian Presidency in the European Union, all say: It must be our concern that what has been built up in this country, what has been done, the achievements that the population has achieved over decades, to represent the tradition, the achievements of this country, Austria as best as possible in the world, and that is what we want to do with dignity and propriety, so that Austria stands well in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That means most of the funds are for foreign activities?]] What's that gonna cost? Projects and information, what is planned, Mr Deputies? – For the 2005 anniversary year, we have planned over-performing appropriations for information work and for the arts sector of up to € 8.5 million. And we did not provide any additional resources for the Austrian Presidency in 2006 – each department has had to take note of the need to set its own priorities for the Presidency – but, secondly, we have made a central budget available for implementation, as in 1998, to the Foreign Office. This will be covered with €15 million in 2005, with €25 million in 2006. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Tell me how much is that in Schilling?]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer) Do you have a problem with the Presidency?]] In 2006, there is also an overrun of €10 million. We have geared ourselves to the costs there are in other countries. Example: The Dutch Presidency, which is now in progress, costs about €69 million. We are clearly under the Dutch Presidency, we are also trying to be economical here. However, it is clear from 1998 that 25 countries, now members, are causing enormous increases in meetings and costs. We will try to establish an exemplary presidency from both the content and the representation of Austria, so that everyone will say: Austria has done this professionally, has done it well, as content has gone a little further, good for Austria, good for the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On Question No 9, I can say: I am in favour of this because you are addressing the rules of the Court of Auditors, my experts, who thankfully thanked Mr Cap – and I do so too, we have excellent experts – say that there are no binding official regulations of the Court of Auditors for information and advertising measures by the Federal Government, so no binding regulation. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: For not answering any questions, he has been talking for a long time! Half an hour and no questions answered]] Question 10, the last question, can I answer as follows: We have just discussed the question of consultants very thoroughly in the Court of Auditors. I have also put on the table that we had 18 million euros in consulting costs in the 2002 and 2003, financial resorts in these two years. This 18 million in consulting costs amounts to €1263 million in savings and €637 million in privatisation revenue. [[Abg. Oils: That hurts!]] I would therefore like to say to you: This money is really well invested money. The Federal Governments in front of us have employed consultants, the Federal Governments after us will employ consultants, I hope they will achieve such good performance with the consultants so that they can stand before the taxpayers and say: [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You stand on the foot of war with the truth!]] The current account is correct! These consultants and these savings have helped us to improve our budgets today, to achieve a sustainable reduction in taxes and taxes, and to reduce the tax rate to 40.6 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: When?]] That is why I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will also discuss with us alternatives, proposals that you will discuss the content of the policy with us. We would like to take note of your criticism, but rather deal with proposals, we have an open ear for it. We're working for this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] I think we are implementing reforms very exemplaryly – this is good for Austria, good for employment, good for the prosperity of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e12715	We are now going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. No Member may speak for more than 10 minutes, each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e12736	Mr Finanzminister, because you are so happy because you still have a bit of applause here in the house, I would like to say something to you: [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Butcher was he!]] The ÖVP MEPs always praise when anything is said by the government bank, and the FPÖ delegates are in here, which is true, but it sounds quite different outside. Mr Finanzminister, from “missing social conscience” to “moral flat roots” to“ traitors” has already been heard. That's how reality looks. And with the population, you have lost all applause, Mr. Minister. Your personal sympathy values, your credibility, your competence, everything is in the deepest basement, take note! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One reason, Mr. Minister – besides many others like homepage, budget failure, Eurofighter – is, of course, your waste of money. They say to the people: Save!, get the people deeply into the bag – taxes, fees, costs, for example in the fuel – but you yourself, Mr Minister, are giving up the money with full hands for consulting contracts, for advertising, for service cars. Minister, the people have their noses full, and that is why you as a minister are “out of” with the population! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With regard to money waste, I would like to ask you: What is ÖIAG Manager getting money for? Mr Minister, please tell me! They're like paper in the wind, they're a game ball of the elements. What does Dr. Michaelis get 684 869 € for? That's incredible! The rulers are practically absent, do not get with what happens. Why do these rulers get such salaries? – Mr Minister, you have an opportunity to say something about this. Let me say something about it again, this time honestly, as far as government advertising is concerned. The answer to question 9 is totally unreasonable. Either you don't know it yourself, or you're being led behind by your own people, Minister. The Court of Auditors naturally recommends that the Government adopts directives and has also published seven points at the end of May 2003. Of course, it is a matter of being economical, economic and useful and of being informed. At the time, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Chancellor's Office – and this is really incredible, that is an increase in the population and in the Court of Auditors – referred to the guiding principles for public relations in Germany in the run-up to elections by the Federal Chancellor's Office. – What is it about God’s will to do with us?- Oh, my God! Why is the government not prepared to introduce directives here? – The FPÖ, by the way, was in favour of these directives, but has also fallen on this issue, as so often. Information work, Mr. Minister? Reform activity of the Federal Government? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the clovers at the turn of the year, which was a three-quarters year after the Court of Auditors recommended directives. [[the speaker shows the corresponding newspaper page]] What's up? – That the pensions are increased! Ladies and gentlemen! The older generation looked very closely at the note and wallet after the turn of the year, but in the wallet was less inside. That's what you call information, Mr. Minister? – This is an incredible scandal! Tell me something more! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is important to introduce directives here. That's not information! This is an incredible cleaner – I would like to say so, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e12799	Deputies of herbs! The word “cleanness” is not a word we use here. I ask you to take this back, or I'll give you a call for order! – Did you take it back?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e12825	I take it back, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e12844	Good.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e12879	I now come to the greatest waste of money on the term of office of the Federal Minister, and this is – Mrs Partik-Pablé, you will also know – the Eurofighter purchase. In the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, there is the ‘unheard’, this ‘detestable’ desire of the opposition to listen to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Defence at the time. The government always says: Everything is correct, everything clean, everything transparent!, but charges are rejected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Yes, why, Mr Murauer? It is always said in the most urgent need that the Minister reply so adequately in the urgent questions. So, Minister of Finance, say: Why did you originally reject fighter planes, but then just support the most expensive model? Was this a political decision beyond all the cost and material arguments? Or has it been about the “fine” counter-businesses, ladies and gentlemen? Or was it just a plump bribery up to the highest level of government? – This is indeed unbearable, colleague, and therefore I will shortly inform you of a letter from Volksbank Graz-Bruck: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: That's unbearable!]] Subject: Dipl.-Vw. Passer. We hereby confirm that we are assigned third-party, in the debt regulation procedure Dipl.-Vw. Michael Passer, 13 S 37/39 t, of the District Court Hall in Tyrol notified claim of approximately 71 million to guarantee a cash ratio of 3 million schilling. - From third side! Minister, I ask you: Who is this third side? – And as long as these things are not clarified, ladies and gentlemen, we will not let go of Eurofighter as opposition! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This answer commutes between sublimeness and phrases. This is not a question answer, but a Farce, Minister of State, and in reality you have made a further contribution to the fact that the people turn away from you!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e12935	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e12953	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's urgent request is again a very transparent maneuver of the opposition. The same knitting pattern always applies: In the absence of its own substantial alternative approaches to fiscal and financial policy, one of the most successful finance ministers in the Second Republic is trying to throw dirt – according to the motto: There'll be something to hang on! Mr Cap, I must say honestly: With the dignity of this House your speech was, but also the speech of my colleague Herbs was really not compatible! I think you can't actually sink much deeper. I really appreciated you as a brilliant speaker earlier, but what you gave of yourself today was not even the cabaret we used to make fun of. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So I don't imagine constructive opposition policy: always just throw dirt but don't offer a single objective alternative. Neither you, Mr Cap, nor my colleague, have put a single substantial proposal into the debate. The Minister for Finance rightly pointed out the facts and facts. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Are you looking forward to opposition?]] Mr Cap! By the way: Why Set You don't have a mistrust request? I'm missing it today. You've put that on many occasions. Is he coming or isn't he coming? [[Abg. Heinzl: You can bring it in!]] But one thing you have to say: Your attack today, Mr Cap, will suffer the same fate as the previous attacks: It will become a abdominal spot because the facts and facts speak a different language. Let's take a look at the facts and facts! The Minister of Finance has emphasized some of them compared to abroad, because the comparison makes us sure that twice as high economic growth, half as high unemployment, half as high a deficit as the EU average, inflation rates by one third lower than the EU average. These are the economic indicators that this government brings! Mr Cap, you are making a mistake: You should also read newspapers like the “FAZ”, the “New Zurich Newspaper”, the “Financial Times. ” You only read – and this is your fault – your own press releases, and they still believe them! There is no proper outcome. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] You should look at what the Monetary Fund says, what does the OECD say, what does the EU say. And they say that we are a model example of our reforms in economic and social policy. Today, according to the EU criteria, we are third in Europe in the Lisbon process. That's a performance, Mr. Cap! We should talk about this. In fact, we should be proud of our country in which such services are provided. This is not just the government, these are the many entrepreneurs, these are the employees in the companies that bring such services. Let's take pride in it! They're always doing bad things. I don't understand. You used to be a state-bearing party, and today you're just doing a bad job. Of course, what we present here as a balance sheet is to a large extent also a merit of the government, but not only. This involves many entrepreneurs, thousands of entrepreneurs, many employees who are innovative and diligent. This is ultimately the balance sheet of the overall state, and you just do everything bad and always pull everything into the negative. I admit, the Minister of Finance is lucky too. It's the happiness of the virtuous. He has an excellent personnel environment in the government team. With a German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, with a Vice Chancellor Hubert Gorbach, with a Minister of Economic Affairs Martin Bartenstein and so on, of course, it is a pleasure to work. This is the happiness of the virtuous, ladies and gentlemen, the happiness of being able to operate with such a team of financial policies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we are grateful that you always make such “events” as Dringliche Enquiries et cetera, because you offer us the opportunity to present the performance of this Federal Government accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: How about a handcushion?]] Mr Cap, the Minister of Finance has drawn your attention to this, but you are not a national economist, and we understand your attitude: They always match absolute numbers, but basically this is always about debt ratios. The Minister of Finance has rightly pointed this out. But let's take an absolute number! The Minister of Finance has taken over a debt of € 133 billion. Do you know what that means? – That means 7.3 billion interest payments. Hardly was the new government in office, an amount of 100 billion schilling became due only at interest rates, for the old debt – and already next year 100 billion schilling only on interest. That's what the absolute numbers look like, you have to say! We have long had surpluses in the budget, high surpluses, where we could keep up with other countries such as Ireland and Finland, if we did not have to co-finance the interest on the debt of 30 years of socialist financial policy, Mr Cap. That's a fact! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Let us take your argument, Mr Cap, with the waste and with the destruction of property. Example ÖIAG – the Minister of Finance has pointed out –: at the beginning debt of €6.3 billion, today €1.8 billion. That means in Schilling: 70 billion schilling less debt. At the same time, there was an increase in value from €5 billion to €6 billion. That's a performance, Mr. Cap! You can only dream of it, and of it you could only dream of earlier socialist finance ministers. It is really remarkable that this performance has come about here. As far as the expenditure side of the public budget is concerned, there is again a number of factors, internationally recognized: the expenditure ratio. Expenditure ratio at the beginning of this government: 53.2 percent, expenditure ratio today: 50.2 percent. This results in a difference of 3 percent of GDP, which is about € 7 billion, 100 billion schilling – savings on the expenditure side! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] To conclude: I am prepared to say that a government which saves 14 000 posts in the administrative and bureaucracy sectors: Buy some expertise on the market! And if expertise costs a few million, but billions are saved with it, this is a very useful investment.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e13062	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. His welcome time: 8 minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e13080	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I have now been very attentive in the ranks and have listened to Mr Cap's speech and have introduced to me what it would be like if the SPÖ were in the Federal Government and you were sitting here on the government bank. In this case, I would ad hocly recommend that you raise the tax on pleasure, because that would be justified. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not even that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You always think of new taxes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: I don't want your performance!]] The Austrian population would also understand this. In this amusing presentation of financial policy, as you have done today, the understanding, I think, would be very great. “Durable request” is already an amusing name: The PR activities of Mr Finanzminister, his BUWOG sales – exemplaryly made – his consultants, that is nothing new, we have been discussing this for half a year in this House. You know the facts which Mr Financier has already presented to you three or four times. I wonder all the time why we have to sit in here and discuss this. Don't you have anything substantial to offer? Do you not at least have an economic programme that we could discuss? [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Could you not even go into a clause from the SPÖ and consider whether Mr Matznetter's economic programme has been done or not, so that you at least have anything in hand about what we could discuss here? We are only discussing allegations from your side regarding the Minister of Finance or other members of the Government, but never about anything substantial that comes from you, let alone about any reform. That's ridiculous. From our point of view, all these requests you have made are, and the first request is even... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] Can I read them to you? “What is the result of the fact that the Government’s draft federal financial law 2005 now provides for the absolute highest level of debt... of the Republic?” – I can explain to you what this results from: [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's right! You have to pay back that too!]] From 30 years of social-democratic financial policy, the result is €133 billion of debt left behind and €7 billion of interest we have to pack into the budget each year. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Look Once you've reached the budget: 7 billion euros in pure financing expenditure are estimated; of course there are also credit interest in it. These €7 billion correspond exactly to expenditure on education, research and development. 7 billion € of pure funding – the entire effort of the Federal Government for Research, Development and Education. You have to keep in mind what you have managed here in these 30 years and how much you have narrowed down the financial scope of this federal government. You should be aware of that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] - I know what I'm talking about! You just need to look at the paper. Today, when one sets the “standard ” down, one reads how the mood in the economy really is. Today’s “standard” - I believe that this is a rather unwarranted sheet for our group - as the middle class is currently assessing the business situation: 55.8 percent of respondents say “very good” compared to 43.9% in the previous year. As far as earnings are concerned, 28.4 percent said that the yield had increased compared with 25 percent in the previous year. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Which sample?]] That is to say, a positive economic outlook, resulting from the reasonable considerations of this Federal Government, to reduce taxes, to boost the economy and to achieve prosperity in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You should consider taking part in some of the reform measures of the Federal Government, because your attitude is such a destructive one. We have seen this at the AUA, for example. The AUA was a good example: Here the union goes and defends the salaries of the pilots at the AUA, who grossly earn more than the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Bures: They do more too!]] Where has your social competence been in this question if you are defending pilot salaries at the AUA? So you are no longer the representatives of the heavy workers, but you are the representatives of the heavy earners, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! That's what it looks like. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We see Austrian financial policy on a very solid path, we see it in good hands and we will continue to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e13245	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. His welcome time is 8 minutes. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e13263	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! The question of this urgent request has spanned a bow from debt policy to overdrafted advertising expenditure in your area. First of all, I am simply and grippingly aware that you have launched an advertising campaign – you may be able to stand on the content as you want; we have not welcomed it in this simple, I do not want to say primitive form –: No new debts! – So far, so good in your political announcement world. So far, so bad, if one brings this into line in the sense of the applicant: on the one hand, claiming political positions – whether they will be realized or not – and on the other hand, directly in connection with the application of this matter with the money of taxpayers, where until the end it is not guaranteed whether the taxpayers will not be charged with their own money. That's a nice link to this urgent request. Mr Finanzminister, once again you have done everything you can to confirm this inherent suspicion. Nothing else, however, we were allowed to expect. It's just striking that you're trying to make this more and more funny. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now I have already felt that a new consultant firm has been employed instead of the agency incense the agency fog, but at the end of the day the impression was as always: no change of consultant, good and old, but equally expensive. But if we want to address the core of the economic questions that have been asked here, I must say that Mr. Stummvoll is right, it is always such a question with the relations, which is relative, which is absolute. We have once made the effort – we will present it accordingly – to take a look at what is actually going on with the ÖVP in this area, if it always means: no new debts. Overall: Debts are very bad. – This is the past of the special class. We have considered how this is the case with the representatives of the ÖVP here in the House, who have always participated in relevant federal financial laws, at least in the vote. As a small secondary and now general theme, we obviously have the peculiarly motivated voting behaviour of members of the government in these two weeks. Now it turns out, and perhaps there is a connection with the best speech given by my colleague, both are stupid... [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - What's that about? – Both times it’s about a lot of money! It is stupid, Mr President, who has gone a long way here. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, most federal financial laws have voted in favour of the debt that has always been criticised here. You can see that now or so, that's my economic philosophy. Mr Federal Minister, you know how stupid I feel about this zero deficit for a year. Even with the definition “over the economic cycle”, we will have problems But this is a debate of its own. You have to keep up with the mirror that you are constantly constructing here and where you celebrate more or less self-infatuation. The whole thing obviously also applies to some Member, only there is less a question of funny self-presentation, but possibly of the progressive Alzheimer's.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e13321	Deputies! This submission is not tasteful to those who have Alzheimer's; it is a derailment! – Please take this back!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e13342	Mr President. They convinced me after the short period of thought, and I take back my statement with the expression of regret because the term used by me describes an actual disease picture – but that was of course only ironic. I take it back, but of course I stay at the heart of the statement: Here a forgetfulness is strained, which is somehow incomprehensible to me. And now you want to cover it with letting one campaign after another go over the population. I picked this out: The campaign “No New Debts” was millions of dollars. No new debt – what about it now, Minister of State? I will now look into this and see if it would be useful to introduce a certain “success participation” here in the event that Federal Ministers say something and then the smooth opposite occurs. It is to be considered whether these should not then make a certain contribution to finance this campaign. That is your problem. They claimed that and not others. And now it turns out, it all doesn't matter, but the campaign has been driven, very, very expensive, not to say, sage. I don't think that's a call for order yet. But it goes on, with the campaign “Less taxes. More for life". And this too has a serious aspect, because that is not at all true. If at least it were true! Although you know very well that this is not true – and I have to say this to you, that you know very well, all expert hearings in the Budget Committee have also yielded that, last time, the last federal financial law, including this, you are constantly suggesting this to all the population groups. I have put a corresponding question to which the Federal Chancellor has answered me: “The statement “Less tax less. More for life’ should make it clear that the proposed 2005 tax reform will provide a relief for all the population groups, including pensioners.” Those who have been dealing with the matter in some way know very well that most of this volume, to which you always say “the greatest tax reform of the Second Republic” – I say to you, too, that is nonsense, not even according to the volume, it is true when you put it relative to GDP –... [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Of course it is!]] In any event, this is also a question of distribution and tax incidence: Who's doing something good here? Just stand where you're distributing your money! You might still be able to do that. Then there are economic or social differences. But You know very well that 2 million alone can no longer be relieved because they do not pay wages and income tax so far. This does not mean, however, that they do not have to pay any taxes otherwise, and in particular their ongoing tax increases. That is, under the rule, for large groups and the 2 million poorest, there is certainly nothing. By the way: Even in the upper income regions, the phenomenon occurs, but the real increase in income is higher, but the tax and tax measures are not in place. That is, what you are constantly claiming here is only true for a small part of the population, which is the core of the matter, but you are proclaiming – just like this – that: discharge for everyone. And that's how it goes: Upturn through discharge – this is the next marketing shame to be announced. Here a complete economic weakness is insinuated, because you can't do anything with your discharge, which is rather small in the international economic comparison. This is about the economy, which you have always claimed before, that as the Federal Government of a small open economy, nothing could be done here, which is not even wrong. But you're gonna have to stick to something. Your whole logical building is a force in itself, but the population still wants to make you know that something is right about it. The problem is that this whole exercise is getting very expensive. I'm excited whether you're either making a contribution to helping the truth to break through, or whether you're contributing at least a small size, just as a compensation for the sufferers who are supposed to be exposed to brainwashing here. One last: Of course, the Court of Auditors has proposed the rules you have put down, but it cannot prescribe them to you. But on a whole page he presented seven points on how public relations can look like. It is clear, on the other hand, that you are constantly doing the opposite. The President of the Federal Chancellor once again delivers the stump on the i by writing in the replica, everything the Court of Auditors suggests in this regard would have the necessary flexibility in an efficient and – now it comes! – have a negative impact on public relations. I congratulate you! That's how your publicity looks. She'll all be very expensive. They have come up with the motto “rerule. ” In my opinion, the motto is rather: wasting, wasting and in this context a kind of friendly economy, which has not yet been there. This is the connection here. This has been clearly worked out. Another issue, in my opinion, is the fact that you are very easy to ignore the Court of Auditors' recommendations and answer questions either not at all or not. And the Federal Chancellor is obviously not better at anything. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e13407	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. Speech time: 6 minutes. I remember the telephone ban in the house. Mr Miedl, three minutes of telephone calls is too long. The next time is a call for order. I call Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e13431	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With a little surprise, I followed Mr Bucher's speech. It was, as I say, surprising, with how much heart and commitment he defended the concealment of tax resources by this Federal Government. Many colleagues in the ranks have said that, obviously, even the colleague Bucher and, as I hope, also some other Members of the government groups have a problem with how tax money is handled here, how generous one is in itself, and how clearly the saying goes for you, Mr Finanzminister: Save with the citizen, but generously with yourself. You do not have the zero deficit or the reduction of the debt either. – Today, every adult student and every popular student knows that. In my opinion, in the last two years, it has already shown that: They work under the motto “more debt and less government assets in Austria”. That is why I think it is very important for us today to deal with a urgent request to show what the waste of fiscal resources and the concealment of state resources are all about. This is the money of the Austrians! What you are doing with your private money really does not matter to us, but it is about public property and public property, for which we as parliamentarians – and therefore my appeal to the representatives of the Freedom Party and the ÖVP – are also responsible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ellmauer: What about the Wiener Wohnbaugesellschaft?]] We have clearly listed it, and even the Court of Auditors clearly shows where tax fraud lies. We accuse you that for PR, for advertising, for, as you say, information – although I do not know what hundreds of clovers actually produce on a full-page listing for the population of information – is simply and simply spent € 72 million. – This is a billion schillings in old currency, Mr. Finanzminister, since you obviously always speculate a little about talking about schilling once and once of euro without saying it. € 72 million, which the pensioners have to spend, will be squandered for this! However, we also accuse you that additional costs of € 1.4 million have been incurred in the area of appointment of Supervisory Boards or Boards and in the area of additional salaries that you are very happy to grant, especially in the circle of friends. [[Abg. Großruck: You trust to say that because you are immune!]] With all these sums – 1,4 million €, 72 million € – you can find things like a vice-channer who bought a Christmas tree last year – Christmas is soon – around 1,600 €, almost a bit fun. [[Abg. Neudeck: But he doesn't have needles anymore, so old is the dirt!]] I know that it is also blatant that Mr. Vice-Chancellor can put a blue carpet in the Vice-Chancellor's office at €7 000. [[Abg. Neudeck: You have red everywhere in the town hall! The whole town hall is full!]] These amounts are ludicrous for this government, but pensioners have to live for a whole year. However, Mr Vice-Chancellor can lay a blue carpet for such an amount, and that is the objection, ladies and gentlemen, to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck:... the phones are torn out!]] You are already so relieved that you will find nothing more when the Art History Museum for the Secretary of State Morak organizes great birthday celebrations. You won't find anything when 40 luxury cars – Audi A8 – are purchased. That's where the Minister of Finance says, yes, he wants a car like that. As we know, he's got a better one anyway, so he even lifted the stroke limit. We also once had a Minister of Justice who wanted to buy a Jaguar at all. [[Abg. Neudeck: It was even cheaper!]] We know this: You have a slope to the luxury car, and the objectionable is, you save from the citizen who has to pay it, but for yourself, you are not expensive enough. That's why you love luxury, and that's the thing about your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Next year, as announced in the newspapers today, we will celebrate 100 celebrations at the Jubilees. There will be gala concerts, there will be big receptions, and money will not play a role either. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is all cheaper than the Danube Island festival!]] [[Abg. Riedler: You have no reason to celebrate!]] Mr. Neudeck! Let me say something to a second area as regards the concealment of federal assets. I'm sure you're very interested. Mr Finanzminister! If you accuse your predecessor, Mr Edlinger, that he wants to sell a non-profit residential area for the nominal, then I would just like to point out to you that this was the legal situation. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: The National Council is making the law, isn't it?]] Non-profit apartments could not be thrown away to any investors and speculators, but could only be sold to the nominal according to the law that this Parliament decided at the time because we did not want social housing to be sold out. [[Abg. Grossruck: Don't throw it, sell it!]] - You did that. They left 62 000 tenants in the rain. You sold out these apartments and got a fake for them: a billion €, you said today, for 62,000 apartments. That's 16 000 € per apartment. The tenants would like to buy this money. You didn't give them the apartments. In reality, the result of your policy is: Austria has become poorer, has less wealth, the tenants have been exhausted, and some of your friends have become richer and have served themselves. – This is the result of your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, a brief summary is made of the following: The objection to your policy is that you are ruining everything in this country to friends, which is not non- and nailproof. They burden citizens – from pension cuts to increases in mineral oil tax. It's cold outside. Many old people have still not received a heating allowance from you and do not know how to heat their cold apartment. [[Abg. Bookbook: 150 €!]] This is the disgusting, and now sit You just get together and think about how you can increase the prescription fee and the hospital fee. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: What does Mr. Häupl say about this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I recommend you to organize next year a little less gala concerts and gala parties, buy Do not take expensive cars and do not burden the sick with prescription fees and give people a heating fee! Winter is at the doorstep, and I guarantee you, for your lifted policy and your arrogance, you will also be chosen!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e13649	The next speaker is Mr Amon. 6 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e13689	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! You can put much under the SPÖ, and most of it is true. One thing, however, cannot be assumed by the SPÖ, namely that it is not courageous. It is really brave of SPÖ to vote expressly on the issue of economic, financial and budgetary policy, because one could have expected SPÖ to choose a topic in which it is at least suspected of having competence. You have no competence in economic, financial and budgetary policies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: What does Mr ÖAAB have to say?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] It is particularly interesting that you are making waste on the subject the main issue, because in all areas – and I will show you the point by point – where you have been responsible has been wasted, indebted and wasted, ladies and gentlemen! Turn in front of your own door and do not throw large stones when you sit in a glass house. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Who was Vice Chancellor?]] The course has been changed by this Federal Government. There is a sustainable budget and financial policy. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: More debt!]] Ladies and gentlemen! With what you spent in 30 years – the well-known €133 billion in debt – you have “challenged ” a huge future for the people of this country. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: 23 billion has this Minister of Finance...!]] You have taken the people of this country a huge future, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy, and that is your responsibility! [[Abg. Silhavy: Where do you actually live?]] Let's look at the areas where you've been wasting and wasting. I mentioned the budgetary policy to you: 133 billion €. The annual interest payment, ladies and gentlemen, far exceeds the budget that we have available annually for education policy in Austria. [[Abg. May. Darabos: There you were in the government!]] This is the waste, ladies and gentlemen, you should think about! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But let's go to other areas in which you have borne and borne responsibility, such as the sale of Bank Austria: That was the purest waste of capital! Or look at the disaster in Bank Burgenland, ladies and gentlemen! The main responsibility is to carry SPÖ-nearly persons, SPÖ-functionaries. Take a look at the bankruptcy at the “Forward” publisher: 500 million schillings were put in the sand at the time! Take a look at the bankruptcy of the “Worker Newspaper”: 65 million schillings were put in the sand! The “consum” plea, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest insolvency in the history of the Second Republic – a stronghold of SPÖ! That's the waste, that's the waste you should think about! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now we're talking about what we're talking about. Even in the SPÖ, in the party itself, it's not true. They told us about waste policy here. Well, you have to look at the SPÖ: The SPÖ, for example, is not enough for a clubman; Of course you have two clubmen. The SPÖ is not sufficient for a Federal Managing Director; You have, of course, two Federal Managing Directors. I could understand everything if your party finances were all right, but that's not how it is. In 1993, the SPÖ debt exceeded the 100 million schilling limit for the first time: 7 million € debt! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: On the matter!]] In 1996, just three years later, SPÖ's debt has already doubled, and in 2000, it has reached a record of over €25 million. If you add the liabilities between the federal government, countries and SPÖ-near companies, we have about €30 million that the SPÖ has in debt. In 2002, the SPÖ still has an official debt – which you have published yourself – of €16 million. [[Call the ÖVP:Bankrott!]] I therefore believe that you really do not need us to make any proposals in economic and financial policy. In the interests of the population, I believe we must also distance ourselves from following the advice you give us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, the SPÖ has another problem, namely that it has no clear course – in no question. That's why you've probably been so hard on a subject you could use for a urgent request. You have a round-by-side zigzag course of the special class on every topic – and here I will also present you with a list. For example, in Turkey's question: One says this, the other says that. In the discussion about the elite universities: One of them suggests, the party is against it. In the case of financial compensation: The SPÖ City Council endorses the financial compensation and the party is against it. The party president, Gusenbauer, proposes to lock down district captains, but the party is against it, so it does not happen. This list could be continued endlessly, and it proves that there is no line in the SPÖ that you have no course. This is your main problem, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Silhavy: What does this have to do with waste?]] And that's why: Do not cancel with urgent requests, which merely pursue the intention of making the most successful finance minister in the history of the Second Republic and the Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: He's making himself ready!]] Don't miss this, ladies and gentlemen, then you'll be able to stand up again!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e13912	Mr Wittmann spoke on an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. Mr deputies, you know: a claim that contrasts with others and does not have any political value. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e13933	Mr President. Mr Amon claimed that during the ownership of SPÖ, the “worker’s newspaper” went into bankruptcy. [[Abg. Großruck: He did not say “while the ownership ”!]] – This claim is incorrect! The “worker’s newspaper” did not go into bankruptcy during the ownership of SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e13971	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e13989	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The urgency of this request can be discussed, but the following can be found immediately: It is definitely a very sloppy request, as I mean. It stems from typing errors, spelling errors, case errors and insertion errors, but it was obviously very urgent. [[Abg. Heinzl: Professor!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Now you have written them so many times!]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You are more responsible for the very old spelling!]] I know that the President-in-Office is always very sovereign. I would still ask him: Perhaps it is possible that we will, as it were, organise an exciting game, who has found the most mistakes until the end of the plenary session, and that you, Mr President, may be giving a prize for this. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The winner gets a dude!]] I'm allowed to register: I landed at 11 errors during fast reading. Dear ladies and gentlemen! On the content of this urgent question: Now we know that the question of the purchase of service cars was also raised by the Minister of Finance. The DDSG is also cited in the statement of reasons for this request. There seems to me to be a trauma in social democracy. [[Abg. Neudeck: The Ships of Minister of Finance Vranitzky!]] You have less with the cars, but, as I believe, more with shipping. The question to the Minister for Finance was why there was a need for a negotiating assistance. I remember there was the DDSG’s famous ship “Mozart”. - Maybe someone else can remember it. [[Abg. Neudeck: How many “f” did you write “ships ”?]] In 1994, it was also the subject of a Committee of the Auditors. There would have been a very useful consultation for the social democrats at that time, because it could not have happened then, that half a billion schillings – I am sorry that I have used schilling and not euro, but that is also according to the time – and the proceeds were 147 million schillings. The mission came from the then Minister of Finance Vrannitzky, and the “executive body” was his secretary Scholten. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This is to be read in the Court of Auditors' report. There's also a fact that there was supposed to be a commission payment. – This is also a very “fine” form of handling of means of taxation. Unfortunately, to whom this commission has flown, it does not come out of it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I also note again and again that it is obvious that the social democrats' accounting period is only on the 4th. February 2000 begins, i.e. on the day of the German government's fishing visit consisting of the ÖVP and the liberals, because how else could it be that there is reference to employment loan contracts here? [[Abg. Oellinger: When does your timing begin?]] I remember that there were employment loan contracts at your time when you made ministers. It was the highly valued Federal Minister other than Hostasch, who had received a halt from the ÖGB and from the Chamber of Labour. There is a question concerning the employment loan contracts addressed to the Federal Minister Grasser as to how you can read the Stenographical Protocol. I notice that your Federal Minister Edlinger had completed a lot of employment loans. As regards the amount, ladies and gentlemen, the answer to the question is that for the total annual amounts, the individual staff have received between 724,000 and 2 million. There must therefore be a reason for this. It has already been mentioned that the nagging of absolute numbers to show that this federal government is making more and more debts, of course represents a certain crunch. It is said that tax and tax increases on the burden on citizens and businesses and on SMEs. Dear ladies and gentlemen! During your time of government – I will start here from 1989 to 1995 – wage tax increased by 71 percent, following that, from 1996 to 1999, by 35 percent. From 2000 to 2005 it is 15 percent. I could explain to you the individual tax revenue in detail and also the comparison. However, I am limited to the increase in the total tax, which was 35 percent from 1989 to 1995, following that, from 1996 to 1999, 29 percent, and 16 percent for the period from 2000 to 2005. [[Abg. Oillinger: Where did you get these numbers? The grass?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We know that without increasing production, without taking into account wage increases, without the increase in income, without taking into account inflation, this can naturally be a good thing. It is only not consistent to do so, and I believe that the credibility of social democracy suffers. I have also considered the absolute amounts; You certainly did. Dear ladies and gentlemen! You would have noticed every year, yes, howling and saying: This is the highest absolute financial debt we have had since 1970 – every year again. No, this is obviously related to your new schedule. But you should have said this all the time during your time. When reading this request – and I have read it very carefully – the question that I have not been able to answer up to now was, in my opinion, the question: I do not yet know what this question should be urgent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14123	Mr Matznetter spoke on an actual correction. 2 minutes speaking time, no political values. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14145	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Amon has claimed that the interest rate has been higher than before since Minister of Finance Grasser worked here. – That’s wrong! The Federal Government's interest rate expenditure has been reduced both in absolute terms and in the share of GDP. Anyone can read the overview 9 of the budget speech in the - gratefully made available by the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14172	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. I would like to have a speaking time: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14190	Ladies and gentlemen! The government parties obviously ask themselves not the question of the budget, but of the timing. And they found something surprising, namely: that of 4th. A new time for the Social Democratic Party began on February 2, 2000. - That's what's been talking to us. It's certainly a little different to be in opposition than to the government. – This is not a particularly original finding. However, when you keep proving that you can remember everything before, you can remember it from 4th century onwards. February 2000 has a collective total memory loss. [[Abg. Neudeck: We don't want to praise ourselves all the time!]] And what we should ask here together is: Why is the same thing always happening in such debates, namely that if, whether from social democracy or from us, someone points to an abuse or a problem, you say: Yes, I don't think so, but in 1988 a Social Democratic minister spent too much money, and in 1985 too!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That's true too!]] You just forget a little thing: In addition to the Social Democratic Minister, Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselgessen is always. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But that should also be part of your memory loss. [[Abg. Neudeck: Why? Was the Constitution different at that time?]] Its image is that a social democratic minority government had to take place until the 2nd century. February 2000 ruined this country, then the international beginner Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel has recruited the Freedom Party and since then the state finances have been reorganised in such a way that only one remains, namely to distribute large orders to the German car industry and to finance with the rest of the interception hunter. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: That's not true, but it doesn't sound bad!]] And: Can't you finally spare us this competition in the discussion: Which party managed worse when? - There's a lot right there. There is a lot to be blamed on social democracy. Only if you look at how public property has been handled in the last four years, you have to say: No one has yet done as badly as the current Federal Government. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We are also concerned about how the control of the government and the abuses caused by it is dealt with. And that's only one thing I remember – and there we are in the chapter Advisory Agreements: This is not just a question of waste, but how to waste in order not to have to justify; how to waste in order to hide and hide. And I'm telling you an example that Werner Kogler brought to my attention: Skill Do you remember the advisory agreement with Zehnder to seek Princehorn-friendly supervisory councils for the ÖIAG? And then suddenly the Court of Auditors comes and says: Well, that's really not how it works, and there's a devastating criticism from the Court of Auditors. Usually, government representatives are satisfied with political justification and try to move on to the agenda. The Minister of Finance, however, appoints an advisor – a consultant to declare that the Court of Auditors is wrong. That means: Not even the removal of the criticism of the Court of Auditors is the task of the Federal Government, but even consultants are already employed! The only thing that's missing is that you give advice to govern yourself and say: What should I rule for if I can give advice contracts? [[Abg. Oillinger: There is already that, I think!]] And there you can take the worst consultants – nothing will get worse, it may only be a trace more expensive. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I remember and still have a little bit in mind, as the then President of the Court of Auditors explained – I think I quote it quite literally –: If the criticism is dealt with in the final reports of the Court of Auditors, then, I quote, we can immediately abolish the Court of Auditors. And that's exactly what it's all about. It is about how you deal with criticism, not with any criticism, not with a criticism that you can put to the party, but with that criticism which creates an official institution of this republic on behalf of this House and for this House. You don't even answer yourself, but you say: Advisor contract – done, gone! I come to other points, and you can choose random points. I am going to explain a few arbitrarily, only representatively for the whole matter. Let's take it because today's property of the ÖIAG has been talked about, the relatively rarely discussed Causa Postbus. They have given the management of Postbus an order to privatize a third of Postbus. – Do you know what the problem of postbus management is right now? – That the opposite question has been asked: Should that be one third of the capital? Whether this is one third of the lines Should that be one third of the buses? Whether that's one third of the drivers? What kind of third, Mr. Finanzminister? – This was a privatisation order: Privatize a third! And you have not yet been able to clarify the privatisation order. This is privatisation today in Austria under Karl-Heinz Grasser! The main thing is, anyone from the system of grass amigos gets something. Mainly, it's about a third – the remaining two thirds will eventually follow. The main thing is that the system is operated. No value has been placed on seriosity for a long time. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I am now leaving the Federal Property Society and Mr. Plech, who may still be working on us in the near future, completely away, but only note the following on the so-called "Plan Minerva": Mr. Finanzminister, you have always denied being the author of the "Plan Minerva", you have always said that you had only learned of "Minerva" from the newspaper. We will talk about two facts in the near future. One fact is that you installed the Magna chief, Mr. Wolf, as the ÖIAG Supervisory Board. The fact that two are – we will prove to you – that at a meeting of the Ministry of Finance, you, Minister of Finance Grasser, have made sure that the "Plan Minerva" is prepared and that the Voest is also prepared to make the most of the scenes of the Austrian politics and economy of Magna company as cheap as possible. Mr Finanzminister, we will show you this publicly, as will many other points. – This was just a small debate between them now. A big rest will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14327	The next speaker is Mr Puswald. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14346	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr. – fasting – State Secretary! [[in the direction of Secretary of State, Dr. Finz, raised by the Government Bank]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you very much for your excellent work. Appreciated Mrs. Dr. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Now you're finally going to praise the Minister of Finance, aren't you?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The tie is too big and the sakko is too small!]] Partik-Pablé, that your party defends Mr. Finanzminister, is therefore amazing, yet with its image decline the shattering of the government FPÖ is going along, and therefore I do not understand this mutual claw. I would rather understand this at the ÖVP, which in more than 30 years has failed to produce a finance minister from its own and economically competent ranks: Well then you just have to praise Mr. Karl-Heinz Grasser a little, even if it's hard! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – You find this difficult because it is not – I have to contradict my colleague Pilz – that it is a collective memory wound, but, as I have said, it is a forgery of history, for the following reason: The solution was kindly given to us by the Minister of Finance when he said that between 1976 and 1999, on average, the financial debt had increased by 3 per cent, whereas under his ministry, it was surprisingly only around 1.7 per cent. – Both are wrong! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: At 0.9 percent!]] Much more false, Mr. Finanzminister! I'll explain it to you in a moment. If you listen carefully to the Minister for Finance, you have to say: He cannot be so stupid that he did not ‘ know ’ that the “evil reds ” ruled from 1970 on! And if you were to follow this supposed but-non-dumpness, it would seem that it was intelligent, what Grasser did, because if one understood the entire time of the “evil red sluggish policy” – I quote Amon – the following would appear in detail: From 1970 to 1983, Minister of Finance Grasser, the “evil reds” ruled alone. At that time, there was a total financial debt increase of 22 percent over 13 years, which is 1.7 percent per year. – This is therefore relatively high – but much lower than your financial debt – because we had to clean up, so to speak, after an absolute EIA government. There's nothing to do! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: That was only four years!]] [[Call the ÖVP: “Fulfil-Rudi”!]] – I know you don’t want to hear from the ÖVP! Your memory wound is not enough, but: That's part of it! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Then comes the time when the SPÖ ruled with the FPÖ between 1983 and 1986; the FPÖ at that time equally strong – say evil tongues: as marod – as today, so that SPÖ could largely do proper financial policy alone. – SPÖ succeeded in reducing the financial debt to 0.2 percent annually. Now comes what Mr Pilz has said: From 1986 onwards, and until 1999, the miraculous participation of the ÖVP, which is apparently largely forgotten under the fungus quoted, namely that the needs of the ÖVP – and apparently the need for a few years in which it was not able to distribute anything – increased the financial debt to 34.3 percent or to 2.64 percent on average. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now, since the “largest finance minister ruled with the best solutions”, namely since 2000, 23 percent or on average 2 percent of financial debt by 2005. – That’s where I ask you what comparison She makes sure – except you really have the “loss of memory” quoted by Pilz! And you should keep that one, too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That's your bill!]] Since the Minister of Finance is always whispering to me – what I am “thank you” for; it is always “important” when you get such contributions as a speaker – and always want to explain that what I say is wrong what the representatives of my group say is wrong, I would like to ask what is good for all of these things that you claim in your advisory work. They always argue that the consultants would deserve themselves so to speak. The consultants may not cost little, but they play much more, always say. If you look at this in detail, you already wonder: What's that all about? Let us start, for example, with the monitoring of the “change process” in the context of reorientation of financial management; Honor: 452,000 €. – So far, it has been achieved by the planned reduction of the financial offices, the Financial Boards, the Hierarchy levels, the reduction of executives and so on: nothing! Saving: zero! – Cost: to that extent. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser:... Financial Land Directions abolished!]] If we leave out the DDSG – because this is a small example that has already been quoted a lot – and go to really tricky things, then it would be like to call the sale of the federal publishing company with a fee of € 788 000. – The savings potential was estimated at €24 million. That's exactly the sales proceeds. – What was saved there, I don't know! Now I would like to clear up with a last fairy tale, since it is always claimed that a waste and waste policy was pursued between 1970 and 1999 – of which ÖVP worked unanimously in the Council of Ministers for 16 years – in the years of the SPÖ government: I would like to tell you exactly what was wasted and wasted at that time. With the debt generated at that time, those assets you, Federal Minister Grasser, have been created in recent years in order not to clean up the budget! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] At that time, jobs have been created that you have destroyed! They stand before the disaster that with what we have achieved, you have “shattered” everything and achieved nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14518	Mr Grossruck is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14546	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Back from Puswald's fairy tale hour to deal with the urgent request. That is why, as I mean – and not by any percentage or promille, which honourable Member Puswald has now spoken about. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the following: In the XXII. legislative period – which has now lasted for about two years – the opposition has submitted nine mistrust applications concerning the financial sector, eight of them to Minister of Finance Grasser, one to State Secretary Dr. Finz. In addition, three urgent questions in the Federal Council, nine urgent questions in the National Council, six requests for the setting up of committees of inquiry, a special meeting was requested and a request for ministerial support was made. – This is the attack, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ that you have been riding against Minister of Finance Grasser in the last two years, and: He gets better, more competent and more and more popular. You can reach the opposite of what you want! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In response to your urgent request, Federal Minister Grasser has again in impressive fashion today Your questions answered and the numbers with acribie placed on the table. – But, ladies and gentlemen, according to the motto “Changes in life” – at least the SPÖ – the “Toscana Group” with the “Sommelier” Cap has today served the xt gang in the “Jagdmenu Grasser”. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The homepage, that's an old hat, it doesn't taste anyone anymore, it's already eaten, and the catchers don't give any more – the Court of Auditors has said that this has shown many investigations. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What studies?]] Today you try to serve us from the SPÖ: How does it look with savings, how does it look with the sale of federal apartments, with advertising expenses, with the anniversary year 2005? – But: This Cap’sche “Grenadier march” tastes just as fad as the menu that was prepared for us before, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ. There's nothing in there! You've just tried by force to bring something here, but: Mr. Grasser has answered your questions very clearly and precisely! Let's make a comparison – an example –: They criticise the public relations of the Minister of Finance. Well, let's compare – the money devaluation, which was not so high, I let go, but call absolute numbers –: Edellinger in 1998: €3.06 million, 1999: €3.3 million, in 2000, in which he resigned: €461,000. – Grass in 2001: € 1.3 million, 2002: € 3.2 million and 2003: €313,000. Ladies and gentlemen! Put on this comparison, then all your accusations that you present today are ad absurdly led! I would like to take another example: Sale of the federal apartments. What did you do? – This has already been forgotten. I quote the APA of 21. April 2004, where it was about selling the Vienna housing company WBG. Now we all know that there has been a dispute here about the question: Is the housing company still non-profit or not? This was very important, because if it had been non-profit, only a nominal of €3 million could have been achieved compared to the transport value of €55 million. The municipality of Vienna called against it at that time. She wanted to find that this housing company is non-profit. First, ladies and gentlemen, when the BAWAG and the Gemeindeutsche Bau-, Wohn- und Regierungsbehörde were interested, the municipality of Vienna withdrew this charge or this finding, and this housing company was bought for the traffic value. This, ladies and gentlemen, is SPÖ policy: If it suits you, then everything you criticize out here, Wurst, then you do just because it fits the party or the organization or the union. [[Abg. Eder: This is a nonsense!]] [[Abg. Gaal: This is an unfavorable thing.]] This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen. And that's what people see. We have enough examples of how it works. [[Abg. Eder: You're talking so much nonsense!]] So, of course, ladies and gentlemen, you can't go out, criticize, disprove the numbers, and then come out again and yell again. You know, Mrs Bures – where is she? – you have criticized the sale of the federal apartments and claim that this would make the apartments more expensive. Now, of course, you know that there is the law: Once non-profit, always non-profit! – If an apartment is non-profit, it also remains non-profit when sold to anyone. That's the fact! They go out, insecure the tenants and say they have to pay higher rents: Dear people, look here! By selling the federal apartments you can no longer afford your apartments! – This is a policy we reject. It is an uncertainty on the back of the weakest, on the back of those who cannot help themselves – you operate, ladies and gentlemen, not the Minister of Finance, not the government! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I come to the end, ladies and gentlemen. To document here, too, how successful our Minister of Finance is, I've brought a four-and-a-half liner Since “Schulden-Rudi” retired, it's uphill with our country: from the finish light to the top rider! [[Call the SPÖ:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Dear Karl-Heinz, keep going! The tax is falling, the economy is flourishing – to “Rudi” a grassy difference!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14656	Mr Grossruck! I would just like to say at this point that there is a presidential decision that in this House there should be neither “cule-rudi” nor “debt-Karli”. [[Abg. Grossruck: I meant Rudolf Edlinger! - Sorry, I didn't know!]] Next, Mr Neudeck. His speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14685	Madam President. Federal Minister! The only urgent thing about this urgent request was, I think, the date, because that was the only thing that was new to it. The savings measures at SPÖ are already going so far that the Second Clubobmann Cap is making the same speech here as last time. [[Call to the ÖVP: He has a new tie!]] – He has a tie at all, and he can bind them too! He starts by frightening colleagues from the government parties and says: You'll see! In the next elections you will no longer sit up there, for there it will become thin! Mr Cap! I think you're in the front row of the problem. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that after the next elections you will no longer be sitting there – but not because you switch to the government bank, but because you disappear into the sinking, because you do not make any urgent requests with two club members who have written down to us every speaker at our opposition time, when you were still in the government – not you, but your party colleagues. We didn't need any clubmen to do this. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You won't be inside at all! Then it'll be very bad!]] Mr Cap! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Then you'll only be waving more from outside!]] We're going to wave you, and we're probably gonna be afraid if you're making politics like you've been in the last 30 years. Interestingly, Mr Puswald, who is not in the hall right now, – I would not have chosen it at all, but if he did so well – pointed out that the SPÖ had ruled alone since 1970, and he then mentioned figures that the budgets, as Puswald said, were not as bad as they were in the coalition with the ÖVP. But one thing was interesting: Puswald, I think, has said that the SPÖ has done the best budget at a time when it ruled with the FPÖ, i.e. 1983 to 1986. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! This shows: There, where the FPÖ is involved, the budgets are fine, because the ÖVP is also making budgets that are just under zero with us – they were not yet positive, we have had to settle your debts, but they were due to a very low re-indebtedness or with a low budget deficit. And of course, yes – I have to say it: The BUWOG sale was a bad business – a bad business not for Austria, but for the SPÖ. The copy costs in some sections, the postage costs in some sections will rise, and the advertising income will fall at your newspapers. – To this extent, a bad business for SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I find it interesting that the SPÖ makes a request for PR and marketing and consultants. Ladies and gentlemen! 40 million € and more is spent by Mayor Häupl for his PR. He crossed some budget posts by double! And, ladies and gentlemen: That's what mutates in a federal country! [[the speaker shows the cover page of the color supplement of an issue of the “Kronen Zeitung” with the text “20 years of Häupl” and a picture of the mayor of Vienna Dr. Häupl]] I have not yet experienced that the colour supplement of a newspaper was mutated in a federal country: “20 years of Häupl”; in the other federal states there was a decent subject on it. – Ladies and gentlemen! You can't get that for free! [[Abg. May. Lapp: This is a diffamation!]] I won't look for an account – there won't be one. But you don't get it for free. [[Abg. Scheibner: And a nice supplement to “NEWS” has also been given!]] We have already explained this with “NEWS”. It was said that there were rented rooms there that you don't need – and the supplement, that's the outflow. So you rented rooms there that you don't need, but the return on the way then comes over these supplements. [[Call at the SPÖ:... talk together!]] But we've already explained that before. We will not now clear out the old urgencys, but we should not forget to call it back to mind. [[Abg. Eder: Neudeck, Neudeck, you were better!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the A8 that were ordered. Mayor Häupl, I think, is also driving an A8, but not as cheap as the members of the Federal Government. It's been much more expensive. I do not want to make a envy partnership with the SPÖ here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following very important: The Federal Government, the government members, the clubmen are supposed to drive decent cars, they should be on their way safely, they should put the miles on the streets in safety. Only, Minister of Finance, I would like to have one – and I would ask you to count on what this costs, and see if that is not possible – that we self-employed, if we drive, can write at least the same thing that government members and politicians can spend on their cars. If this does not happen in the budget, I would ask the politicians to go down to the extent that the self-employed may assert tax. That's decent politics! – This is not from the SPÖ, but the envy: He can't drive A8! The others are not allowed to drive A8! Such a proposal for the self-employed could have been made by Matznetter – he is a top candidate after he has pushed out the sharks during the chamber elections. But there are the self-employed meats for him. This will only become interesting for him in March next year. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can only say one thing on the urgent question, which has also been raised by the advisers of the Minister for Finance: A policy, as the SPÖ has done, does not need consultants, but only compliments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14853	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap spoke on the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14872	I would ask the President-in-Office to give a call for an order. It is the language from the Ganovenworld that has just been used. We don't need to let ourselves be offered here!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14899	I propose that the vote should be re-adapted to the House in principle and that Mrs Moser should speak as next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. You have a total of 8 minutes of remaining speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14917	Madam President. Mr. Minister! I mean, what you have shown us today in your performances of self-happiness and also of financial beauty, has already put many things in the shadow. – In your mind, perhaps take it as a compliment! But it's still coming: The comparison of sales proceeds and consulting costs – I mean, that's probably the bottom line! You can never face this with the investment of the consultants is equal to the sales proceeds! – You will fall through with Professor Kofler in Klagenfurt during each seminar exam, with bombs and grenades. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Grass]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] I mean, this flattite -- that's really unreasonable, I'd say. But let us go into the debate. It's about consulting contracts as a waste. I'm just calling you two examples: We have a number of outlays, and all these outlays were accompanied by consultants. We have a number of legislative changes. In the case of disbursements, you will see in each Court of Auditors' report on distributed undertakings that costs have increased in themselves because of the increased staff costs of disbursements, pension reserves et cetera. And the advisory costs are always criticized by the Court of Auditors, and there are a number of Court of Auditors reports which are massively opposed to various false exclusions – and cause, please, also again: Counselling costs. Second: In the case of There were also consultants at the Teender company. You remember: ÖIAG legislation – tithing big at work. Where was the most recent tithing big at work? – In the filleting of the ÖBB. And you're going to look at: first, what this has cost up to now at consulting costs, and second, what it's going to cost, please, from 1. January. You will see that there is a number of additional costs coming to you! The next key word that the Court of Auditors repeatedly draws on, in the case of all these sales revenue and advisory contracts. Think about the sale of the federal apartments – this one has been mentioned more often now –: You yourself said today that you are happy that domestic investors have accessed here. – Yes, but was the international banking world required by Lehman Brothers, which probably cost us almost 9 million? – I question this, just as the Court of Auditors called into question legal fees in connection with the sale of the state-owned housing company. You've already been able to read this black on white. This is not an invention from us, it is a criticism of the Court of Auditors. A further criticism of the Court of Auditors: stencil regulation. How often have you violated the stencil regulation as the owner of state-owned companies by ÖIAG contracts against the Boards et cetera? – Criticism of the Court of Auditors not even, but several times. Your reaction: null. Next Tag: Minister's Offices, Employment Loans Minister's Offices. Court of Auditors Review: We need a regulation here! - Whoever does not regulate it, that is you, that is the majority in this house. Next Tag: Task reform. – How many consulting contracts do you have? Take an example of communities! They're doing this on their own! They get prizes for bringing job reforms from their own, without consulting services. Service balances: You said that 20 service balances were made available to the local authorities. I wonder, Why does anyone from a local authority need the same car as you as the Minister of Finance, like the Federal Chancellor, like perhaps other members of the government? [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That is the decision of the local authority, Mrs Deputies!]] These local authorities, the section heads, or other people in the local authorities can drive more cheaply! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: We don't decide that!]] Finally, because time is pressing, I would just like to refer to a foreign newspaper, to “Die Zeit”, which your activity here in Austria is very likely to observe very closely. There it says: “The course of the KHG-AG increased gradually. Now the bubble is burst...’. And the bill will be You will probably see it by 2006 at the latest. The bill means: New debt – and no longer zero deficit. Therefore, please also look for a new dissertation topic! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e14994	Next item is the report by Mr Wittmann. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Total remaining time: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15013	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has found in several audits that the use of experts would actually not have done anything because the same expertise would have existed in the individual ministries, in particular in the Ministry of Finance. I want to illustrate this by two examples: Arthur Andersen was assigned to prepare an administrative reform. Cost: 60 million schilling or 4.3 million €. They have then prepared something that was specified by the officials who had already been prepared by the Raschauer Commission. For this they have collected 60 million schillings. Transmitted: Zero! Nothing! – Arthur Andersen then became aware that they were involved in the U.S. counterfeiting scandal of Enron, which they advised Swissair. As we know: Enron doesn't exist anymore, Swissair doesn't exist anymore, and Arthur Andersen doesn't exist anymore. So that means: These are consultants who are supposed to have an expertise worth 60 million Schilling and who will then not be implemented – consultants who were exclusively commissioned by the Ministry of Finance, against the resistance of the Federal Chancellery and the Federal Chancellor; even the ÖVP officials in the Federal Chancellery have wondered how to award such an order. You don't need that money, you don't need it! This is simply a random waste of tax resources, and that is actually a moral picture of this government. This always highly praised BUWOG sale: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let us consider this! You yourself have said today that 1 billion € has existed – 16 million; please – for the sale of the apartments. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: 16 million!]] That's 4.3 million square meters of living space. If you calculate this, then a square meter of living space cost 235 €. [[Abg. May. Johann Moser: This is a scandal!]] We all know that the average square meters of living space in the agglomerations is not less than € 1,000. [[Abg. May. Worm: But this is cheap!]] And for this, a consulting firm has 110 million schilling – no, more: 140 million schilling – that is, 10 million €: for telling you, the living space we're ruining by 235 €! That's pure money out there! This is a truly incredible waste of tax resources that I need an advisor to tell me that I have to sell the living space around 235 € per square meter. At this price I can sell them everywhere! – And you already know that the buyers of this residential area are already on the market and offer sub-areas again by almost double the market. That's the economy you don't need! This is the slugging of family silver, just because you have the water up to the neck, so that you can bring a budget together. They have the highest debt there has ever been in this Republic. They have the highest unemployment rates in this Republic. They have introduced the highest tax rate that has ever existed in this Republic. You have added 41 loads with which you still pull the money out of your pocket to the simple taxpayer. You have sold the family silver much too cheap and are now standing in front of the scrapping of your economic policy. It's incredible that You still afford these expenses. [[Abg. Hornek: How was that in Wiener Neustadt with Mr. Linhart? Explain this once! What did you do?]] Now a little suggestion for the colleagues from the FPÖ: I wonder a little bit about this budget. The Minister of Finance has said in his reply that he has invested €25 million for the Presidency of the European Union in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I've just been looking at and finding out: In the Federal Chancellery there are 10 million more – exclusively for the Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen from the FPÖ! This will be an election campaign, an intermediate campaign for the ÖVP next year, with € 10 million in 2006. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] See, they confirm it, colleagues from the ÖVP! What did your group get for this inter-election campaign? – I would now think about the fact that 10 million are packed by the Federal Chancellor exclusively for advertising purposes. This is an intermediate campaign that is against all of us! What did you get on the FPÖ page for this? [[Abg. Hornek: The election campaign for the Deputy Mayor is already over!]] What has been packed in the FPÖ ministries? - Nothing! They've been pulled over the table. [[Abg. Hornek: The election campaign for the Deputy Mayor has ended since yesterday! Dead pants!]] There has been a shift in advertising from Grasser to the Federal Chancellor, and there is an intermediate campaign. That's pure waste!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15128	As the last speaker, Mr Lopatka is speaking for the time being. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Member of the European Parliament, the total remaining time of the ÖVP is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15161	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The inconsistency of the SPÖ is really not limited, you have proved this clearly again today. You have at least avoided one thing: going to a terrain where you have been slipping out very often, namely to present your own ideas here. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] So, it's progress. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But as far as the matter is concerned, it's really the x-te casting you've delivered here today. He's going to evaporate as much as the previous ones! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Klubobmann Cap has become famous at the time because of three questions he asked; at that time he addressed the three questions to a SPÖ head of state. Today there were a total of ten questions. I would like to address three questions. They asked themselves today as a Citroën driver, which is special about an “A8”. I can't answer that either, but make a proposal: Ask this question to your SPÖ country chairman in Upper Austria – the man for modesty, for the “little people” – who drives this vehicle. They call it a luxury type; I don't know how Haider says it. Ask Haider this question about how a service vehicle is “A8”. Why do I say that? – Because the hypocrisy sometime reaches a limit. The hypocrisy reaches a border sometime, I tell you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Second point. [[Abg. Gradual Goodness: You’re talking about hypocrisy!]] Yes, because I am very busy with this question, because of course I have to observe your procedure closely. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] That's part of my job, and I notice... [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Worm and Silhavy.]] I'm not talking about Pharisee, I'm talking about hypocrisy. [[Abg. May. Worm: Self experience!]] Second point: Today, you have accused the Minister of Finance of his alleged use of more than €8 million for self-advertising from 2000 to 2004. I would also like to make a suggestion to you: If you talk to a colleague-college – who probably knows exactly why he is not here today – talk to your colleague-college Caspar Einm. Caspar One, when he was still a minister, spent at least €3 million on advertising each year – he called it “information work”. [[Call the ÖVP: What?]] At least one third more than you blame the Minister of Finance today! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Caspar One will be able to tell you what he used this money for. And third... – Please? [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Did we agree?]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Did we agree?]] Yes... [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Matznetter, if you say so, I'll tell you one thing: Do you know that at that time, of 160 million for advertising alone, climate has claimed 70 million for itself? – These were sums! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But here I am again at the hypocrisy, which is slowly becoming your program. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The third point, Mr Matznetter, has already been answered by many colleagues. That is why I do not need to refer you to former finance ministers. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Less taxes...!]] You have asked what is the result of the current debt. Of course, to a good part of what we took over from 30 years of SPÖ Federal Chancellors and SPÖ Finance Ministers! You will often hear these sums from us, because these are huge sums that we have to do in interest service for what you have left us in debt. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Sorry, you were there!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Were you there or not?]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The ÖVP...!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: bowl is the one that owes most...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What you are saying here is the opposite of what this government is doing, because this government is working professionally, and Finance Minister Grasser is a model example of professional work! Yes, I tell you, and not no! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you don't want to believe me and us, you give international observers faith. There's a whole new story here: ‘Eurostat Yearbook 2004 – The statistical guide through Europe’. Take this direction seriously, because it shows us with excellent information, and it is a pit for the successful work of this Federal Government. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... show off!]] These are European experts, and, you know, the European Commission and Eurostat are not contractors of the Federal Government. Take this data seriously! It is also evident that Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser and his foreign policy are greatly appreciated. ‘One thing is certain: We would also like to see a Finance Minister Grasser and his policy in Germany." Who says that? – The Chief Economist of the Deutsche Bank! [[Abg. May. Worm: Oh, that's it?]] He'd have to be an expert who's also accepted by you here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Only a few weeks ago is Karl-Heinz Grasser has been elected Vice-President of the Euro Group; he is Vice-President of President Jean-Claude Juncker in this important financial function. This too is an international award for our work. Only you don't want it to be true. Let me conclude by reminding you of one thing: In the case of “absorbing tax funds”, please think first of the advertising budget of your mayor in Vienna. Remember, of course, that with funds from the press and information services of the city of Vienna, all Vienna have been alerted to the fact that their mayor is 55 years old. I congratulate him on his birthday, but I would have liked him to spend less money from the city's cash.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15450	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darabos. Total remaining time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15468	Madam President. Minister! High house! It is a very inconspicuous debate and a very inconspicuous strategy that the EIA is showing here. [[Cheerfulness and detonative applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] [[Prolonged applause and bravado with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – I don’t know why you complain yourself in your inadvertentness. It's a mystery to me. They do not answer the questions that have been asked, but refer to climate, to Vranitzky, to 30 years SPÖ policy. I'm telling you quite honestly: 30 years of SPÖ policy were good for this country, four years of black and blue were very bad for this country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not understand at all that you are suffering from political amnesia, Mr Lopatka. You were also told by the Greens that Wolfgang Schüssel was in the process over the entire period of time that the ÖVP has put the desires in this policy. I am thinking only of the agricultural sector in order to remove an area. However, social democratic budgets were aimed at ensuring growth. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bowl – Debt icons!]] I would like to repeat it here again. Between 1996 and 2000: Growth in Austria is 8 per cent above the EU average; between 2001 and 2003: minus 13 per cent below the EU average! That is what you have to do with your ÖVP FPÖ policy, and I believe that is a point of which you can say, Mr Grossruck: Both saw, both experienced – no comparison! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Rudolf Edlinger's policy was to lead Austria to the top of Europe in growth, leading investment to the top of Europe. Its policy has turned Austria down, and debt is higher than ever before – with the difference that Austria was seen in the world but is now moving as a final light in the European Union and in the European comparison. This is not the policy we want. Here's waste policy, there was growth policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15536	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Total remaining time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15554	Federal Minister! I don't have as much as you talk, 30 minutes are not available to me, that makes a difference. I don't need a PR consultant to tell me what to say. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! At the very beginning, you asked the question or answered for yourself: Information is not advertising. All right, let's assume it's true. What if, two days before the end of the Vorarlberg Landtag elections, Mr. Sozialminister quickly placed an advertisement in the Vorarlberg media – “Vorarlberger Nachrichten”, “Vorarlberger Zeitung” – in which he refers to the blessings of child care money, which was not known in 2004, but was already introduced before? – An urgent need for information from the people of Vorarlberg, I suppose, who wants to know from the media that the Minister of Social Affairs was there leading. Is it information or advertising, if the same Social Minister just days before the Carinthian elections, all Carinthian media – “Oberkärntner Nachrichten”, “Unterkärntner Nachrichten”, Central Carinthia News, “Kärntner Week”, “Kärntner Nachrichten”, everything is in Carinthia, a colourful media market – paved with information from the Ministry of Social Affairs? [[Abg. Bookbooker: I don't even have it!]] What is it, information or advertising, if the Minister of Transport, even not lazy, thinks: [[Abg. Scheibner: Information!]] I can also do what the Minister of Social Affairs does, and in Vorarlberg do the same, and two or three days before the election, do I also look at advertisements? Is that information, or is it advertising? [[Abg. Scheibner: Information!]] “Information” – very interesting, Mr. Klubobmann! That's where we're on the central issue. Information is a lot, but certainly not, when, for example, in party newspapers, in Carinthia, in Klagenfurt, the Social Minister advertises. Is that information? Or is this not partisan financing at a legal limit? [[Abg. Scheibner:... no party newspaper!]] You have to look at this very carefully, Mr. Klubobmann. At any rate, it is no longer possible to do so according to the standards that have previously been applied in Parliament. What is it then when the Minister of Transport answers questions from Members, how much he has spent on his information: I can't answer that for administrative reasons!Unknown term type: "%s".? What is it then? – It is the refusal of a control right, Mr Klubobmann Scheibner! There you land, there you landed, Mr. Klubobmann. In 1999, 1998, the representatives of the Freedom Party to the government of that time still criticized it in such a way that it has spent money for information, for advertising. [[Abg. Scheibner: We “land” not!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That was the real advertising!]] Now, as MEPs, we do not even receive answers from the competent...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15659	Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15675	That is how it now looks, and unfortunately the Minister of Finance is moving forward with the very best example!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15705	No one has made any mention of this. This debate is closed. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was really a weak urgent!]] 3rd. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (620 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Radiation Protection Act as well as the Eich Act (Rain Protection Act 2004) (659 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15735	So we get to the 3rd place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I'm going to open the debate. First of all, Mr Ing. Winkler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15759	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! High house! We are living thanks to God in a land where radiation accidents are extremely rare. The last country-wide tragedy and also beyond the national borders occurred in April 1986 due to the explosion in Chernobyl nuclear power plant. [[Abg. May. Kogler: On the radiant advertising!]] Nevertheless, it is extremely important that each country has strict provisions on radiation protection – and sometimes even inside it – for its citizens. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The advertising of the Federal Government is highly radiant and weakly active!]] Austria has already optimally regulated these provisions in the Radiation Protection Act 1969 as well as in the Radiation Protection EU Customisation Act 2002. Austria has also established safety standards in the so-called framework recommendations for the protection of the population by the Radiation Protection Commission. In recent years, the EU has adopted even more stringent and concrete rules on the protection of workers and the population, but also for patients against dangers from ionising radiation, which Member States now have to implement into national law. First of all, the current legislative innovation is primarily used to implement Directive 2003/122/EURATOM for the control of highly radioactive enclosed sources of radiation and non-renewable sources of radiation. It is important, first of all, that this law reintroduces the requirement of comprehensive safeguards for radioactive substances by stating that safety analyses have to include a detailed description of those measures that secure the sources of radiation from unauthorized access. A separate regulation will be adopted by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management by mid-2005 for the scope, content and form of safety analyses, interference analyses and emergency planning. The newly inserted § 10a also achieves an increase in the control of radioactive substances by reporting the import and export to the central source register. As one of the most important points of the new law to increase citizens' security, I consider § 26. In principle, the discovery and loss of radioactive substances has already been regulated, but by the revision of § 26 the measures in the event of the loss of radioactive substances and in the case of inert radioactive substances are substantially concrete. A loss or finding of these substances should therefore immediately be reported to the next safety body. In the event of a finding of inert radioactive substances, the competent radiation protection authority shall be informed and shall, after the confiscation, initiate recovery or disposal as radioactive waste. I also consider important that future owners or buyers of radioactive substances are responsible for their import and trade. The Minister of Agriculture can also regulate by regulation the competence of farms to reuse and eliminate radioactive material and then define necessary training accordingly. As regards the loss and elimination and the theft and the discovery of sources of radiation, cooperation should be stepped up in the future, in particular with international authorities, taking into account the necessary prevention. High house! In particular, I consider these provisions of § 26 just mentioned by me to be a milestone in environmental policy. Finally, there is also a concrete instrument or a concrete approach to how radioactive material can be treated. Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, this law also contains detailed provisions on implementation and the like. As far as the additional staff in this context is concerned, of course, it costs money. But prevention has all cost less than a corresponding treatment of radiation accidents and is less complex than in this context. In the other case, there is also a reduction in administrative simplification by a change in the law on measures and measures provided for in this law. I am therefore seeking, in the sense that the law will certainly help to deal with the dangers of sources of radiation or radioactive material even better than before, in order to give appropriate consent to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15809	Next, Mr Dobnigg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15827	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Although substantial parts of Community legislation in the field of radiation protection are already contained in the applicable Austrian radiation protection regulations, this government has, unfortunately, not been able to implement these rules without any accuracy and accuracy. Thus, the very surprising situation arose that, despite the recent re-regulation in the field of radiation protection law by the Radiological Protection Act 2002 had already been required several months after the in-force steps of this law due to partial non-compliance with EU law, and this, although at that time the government and the Ministry of the Environment announced that EU conformity had been given. As it turned out, it was incorrect. So you, Mr. Federal Minister, were not the master of your competences. In addition to the local Constitutional Court, the EU now needs to discover the permanent Black-Blue bill. This bad and inadequate work by the government is also annoying me in this case, because important workers' interests are affected. However, from the point of view of worker protection, it is important to ensure that workers in workplaces where the use of ionising sources of radiation is essential are protected from their effects on the human organism. Some critical comments on this EU-Rahlenschutz Adjustment Act 2004. In the case of a finding of inert radioactive substances, too much responsibility is placed on the company's radiation protection officer. In my opinion, employers also need to be more involved. Furthermore, the reporting obligations of the companies to the Central Dose Register should be formulated in a more formal manner and there should be a lack of sanctions, as they may also be data which may later be of immense importance for the maintenance of any social or accident insurance claims of employees. In my opinion, the transitional periods for the provision of safety and accident analyses or emergency plans by the end of 2008 are too long. In order to increase the monitoring of radioactive substances, a reduction in the period by the end of 2006 would certainly be more appropriate. On all these points, it should not be forgotten that the current working means or materials which release ionising radiation are the highest risk potential for the body and life of the workers concerned. However, since small improvements for workers are better than none at all, we also agree with this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15867	As the next speaker, I shall give the floor to Mr Wittauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15885	Madam President. Minister! High house! It's strange again, I kind of feel like I'm in the wrong idea. We therefore agree because a minimum level of safety requirements will be implemented. It is Community law and it is mandatory to implement it and we are implementing it. That's a fact once. [[Abg. Silhavy: You could also do better!]] The previous speakers took a very detailed look at the content – the Social Democrats have brought it back in the wrong direction. We welcome the changes and innovation because it brings more security into a very sensitive matter, and of course we agree with the law. I also noticed that it was often spoken of by heartless sources of radiation, and no one actually knows what that is. I would therefore like to say briefly: Radioactive sources of radiation that have been abandoned, transferred, passed on without approval or have been lost are insatiable sources of radiation, and we will also take these into account in this law. I hope to have greater control, more safety for the population, more safety in the field of safety at work, and I believe that we can achieve this with rapid implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15923	As the next speaker, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Restaineer. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15941	Madam President. Minister! There is not much to say about the novelle in itself, because it is, I think, already said everything, though perhaps not yet of all. Nevertheless, it seems very important to me to add something else. We have no significant objection, it is implementation of EU law, but I noticed when researching where Austria has nuclear waste, that there is actually no solution for the Seibersdorf nuclear waste. The mayor has said that the intermediate storage is guaranteed by 2012 but not beyond. The Minister in the Committee has told us that this question should be addressed by 2030, at European level. In 1986, the director of Seibersdorf said that the nuclear waste disposal of both Seibersdorf and Zwentendorf would not be a problem, because China and Russia would take the scrap with hand kisses. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, it would no longer be a solution that somehow seemed feasible to us, with the many things that have happened in the meantime, what nuclear waste is used for and what dangers lie behind it. At the very moment, I would like to refer to the Union Constitution, which was adopted on 28 March. October 2004 was signed by the EU Heads of State and Government – and at the same time, and I think that is really embarrassing, again the unchanged adoption of the EURATOM Treaty. We therefore have a further distortion of competition in favour of nuclear energy and energy from renewable energy sources. I assume, Minister, that you too are looking at something unpleasant because you do not particularly like this unfavourable situation for renewable energy sources. I'd take that once, at least I'd hope so. The Austrian government representatives therefore also accept that Austria is squandering millions of tax money to the nuclear industry every year, that nuclear industry, which continues to drive ahead in full awareness of the irreparable consequences of the production of energy from nuclear fission. It's hard for me to talk about it now, but I have to do it anyway, because it's just bothering me what happened in the course of these castor transports in the last few days. I find it unbearable that a young person must die on the gel because these unscrupulous transports have to be carried across Europe. This does not directly concern us now, but at the latest if we want and need to dispose of the nuclear waste of Seibersdorf, we will have to do so by bringing it elsewhere, because where will that be possible in Austria? That's the question. No one's going to want this trash. That is why I would like to refer once again to the fact that, after the signing of the Union Constitution, there will be an Intergovernmental Conference to get out of the EURATOM Treaty. I very much appeal to you, Mr Minister, that this should also be put forward in the government so that this Intergovernmental Conference is finally called upon, that we also have clarity as to whether a constitutional action would not be useful, because the nuclear barrier treaty is broken only by the introduction of nuclear power. If we already have a federal law on measures to protect the life or health of people including their offspring from damage by Ionizing rays say goodbye, it also belongs that at the same time we also support this signature action: 1 million signatures for the exit from nuclear energy. I would like to hand this over to you today, Mr Minister, and ask you to sign this petition as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e15998	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. Mr President, you have allowed the speaking time to be reduced to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16017	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we are dealing with the implementation of the EU Directive 2003/122/EURATOM for the control of highly radioactive encirculated and, as mentioned above, without any sources of radiation. Many details have already been made by my previous speakers, and I will therefore try to keep my speech as short as possible. An adaptation of the Radiation Protection Act, as well as the Standards and Equal Opportunities Act to a total of five EU Directives brings the necessary additions and definitive innovations for the control of highly radioactive enclosed sources of radiation and inert sources of radiation. These safety standards are particularly important for the health protection of medical personnel as well as patients. But also in the cross-border movement of radioactive waste, special care and protection must be ensured against ionising radiation for workers and, above all, for the population. The establishment and operation of nuclear installations shall be subject to appropriate authorisation procedures, with particular regard to radiation protection requirements. Any change in the installation, holder, construction plan or construction period shall be notified to the Authority without delay. The improved protection provisions are designed to ensure that, first, the radiation exposure of persons is kept as low as possible, secondly, the risk of the intake of radioactive substances into the human body is minimized and thirdly, as low as possible, radioactive substances reach the environment. Monitoring the environment is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. If there is a suspicion of radioactive contamination of human beings, property rights may also be entered or rode against the will of the persons entitled to the order, and any necessary protection and safeguard measures may also be implemented against the will of the persons concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! The 2004 Radiological Protection Act has made another important step towards protecting people and their environment. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16054	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16072	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! As Mr Wittauer had previously asked why the opposition was actually reporting here and he thought that one would agree, unless there was an EU directive in place and that this was a must for this House. That is true, but it is always the question at which level such directives are implemented. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that since this government took office in 2000, Austria has unfortunately not been an environmental pioneer country or an environmental model country. [[Abg. Scheibner: And before that?]] Austria is systematically and continuously slipped off from a top spot into the unsatisfying middle field. This can be seen, among other things, by reading the report of the EU's Environment Directorate-General: In the meantime, 15 cases have been identified where poor implementation in Austria is observed. This federal government was once again sparse and had to be reproved by the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen. This shows how lightly and negligently this government is also dealing with the dangers of radioactivity. The most dramatic result of this lax attitude has so far been the failure of the Causa nuclear power plant in Temelín. As inconsistency and inconsistency has been done here, so inconsistency and inconsistency has also been done with radiation protection in its own country, as the government has had to be said by the EU. Especially the population in the border regions of the Czech Republic as I am in my constituency, the Upper Austrian Mühlviertel, has the failure and inactivity of this government to pay with fear and real threat in the fight against the Temelín nuclear power plant. In the monitoring and elimination of additional dangerous sources of radiation across our borders, absolutely no error and no delay must now happen. From the European Union, it is almost official that the international exchange of experience and the international cooperation between Austria and its neighbouring countries has not been sufficiently intensive so far. This is a clear negative judgment from Brussels on the nuclear policy of this Federal Government, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a word for radioactive load in living rooms: Radon load in residential areas is expressly excluded from the scope of the law, although it is known that half of the radiation load of an average Austrian and an average-Austrian is due to radon and radon follow-up products. The law only provides for research to reduce radon exposure and to inform the population. The Minister for the Environment is therefore urgently called upon to support the research work intensively and to move forward rapidly. Minister! I then expect independent measures and not that something will happen in Austria only after the European Commission's appeal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16109	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16127	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! It is indeed significant for the opposition that, in view of this adaptation, which is very positive for Austrians, especially you, Mr Dobnigg and Mr Schopf, are really able to put these measures in general negative shape, and that Mrs Resthner has nothing to say about all these positive measures that bring this adaptation. By amending this radiation protection law, there will be increased protection for workers, the population and patients in the medical field, and the Federal Government will take some money in order to ensure this protection in the future. We people have always been exposed to ionizing, i.e. radioactive radiation, and I am thinking of the radon rays that have been addressed by Mr Schopf. Radon radiation increases the risk of lung cancer. Radon, of course, emerges in the ground floor and can penetrate through untight places, through which foundations into the basement and also into higher floors. And it's not like Radon's not being taken into account. This law establishes databases to better represent radon concentrations. The Federal Government is also investing in increased monitoring activities, test measurements and the implementation of campaigns to ensure better health for Austrians. This change of law really brings positive measures, and I hope and hope that these measures will be implemented as quickly as possible in the interests of the health of Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16167	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 659 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 4. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (648, B.C.E._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000 (EIA-G-Novelle 2004) and the Amendment 313/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Klaus Wittauer, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000, BGBl No. 697/1993, as last amended by the Federal Law BGBl I No. 50/2002, amended (661 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16225	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16251	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have under this item on the agenda a new version of the EIA Act, which has already happened to the Environment Committee. The aim of this amendment is to ensure increased public participation by the environmental organisations in the field of party status and certain legal remedies. However, due to the need for implementation of a convention or directives, this innovation also brings with it a greater number of procedural steps. In the negotiations between the government parties, but also with the opposition parties, in this case with the SPÖ, we have come to realize that there is the possibility to minimise this increase in procedural steps in the course of further negotiations, without, on the one hand, being prejudicial to the idea of environmental protection, but with the opportunity to achieve reductions in the procedure, in particular in favour of applicants. We want to make this effort. That is why I submitted the request for referral back to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We simply want to ask, and simply ask, to have some time to continue negotiating this point, so that perhaps in December we can bring an even better proposal here to the high House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16285	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16303	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The Environmental Impact Act is not a surprise. It is also not surprising that a two-thirds majority is required for the approval. As the law says, it does not agree with my group, and it does not make any sense to deal with this today. Mr Kopf has already pointed out that there is a referral request. That is what we think is logical, and it offers all four political groups the opportunity to bring themselves in and improve this law. It is also necessary to improve this law. I'm just calling two areas: One is the concentration of proceedings referred to, the other is that, compared to the ministerial template, the government template provides far less rights for those involved, for NGOs, for citizens' initiatives, and we see the need to go one step in the other direction again. The talks have started very positively, and I am good things that we can present to the house something better than that today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16333	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16352	Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr Krainer, I am grateful that you support this request. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is also up to us to take positive steps with the opposition. Environmental impact assessment is a very important matter, not only for those concerned but also for projects. So it was also our concern that we said that we were trying to talk to create improvements in efficiency, concentration together. That there is already an internal improvement for NGOs that they are involved in many areas, you know, and that is why we also support this request. But I would like to draw your attention to one thing: It is also your responsibility that the activity of the Environmental Senate be further extended. So we must not do or say any slowing down tactics, let's leave it where it is. If we do not decide by January or December, the Environment Senate is also challenged, and I believe that we do not want to do that to people. Therefore: Please cooperate constructively. You're invited. We're ready to do that. I believe that this is the best way to make a better EIA law. However, I would like to make a request from Mr Kopf, Mr Krainer, Mr Wittauer, Mr Glavischnig, to the decision of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection concerning the Aarhus Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decisions and Access to Courts in Environmental Matters, including Declaration (654 d.e., 662 d.b.) The National Council wants to decide: ‘1. The conclusion of the Aarhus Convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making procedures and access to courts in environmental matters, together with a declaration (654 d.b.) is approved. 2. In accordance with Art. Paragraph 49 2 B-VG, the French and Russian language versions of this State Treaty are announced by the fact that they are available for public inspection in the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry.”
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16394	Deputies! I think you were a little too fast. This request concerns only the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16412	Then I'm sorry, I made this request too early. I'll bring him in next time. But still my call to form the EIA together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16443	Mrs Glawischnig is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16461	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The Greens support the referral request to the Committee for several reasons. You don't have to talk things over here. Since the government needs a constitutional majority for this law, it simply sees itself forced to negotiate with the SPÖ. However, I would like to say critically that I have always felt it was a good tradition in the House, that in the majority of cases of constitutional issues, all four political groups are invited to negotiate and that it is strange that the Greens were excluded from these discussions until today. [[Abg. Scheibner: Will we do!]] The accusation is addressed to both parties, especially ÖVP and SPÖ. I do not think it is fair, and I also find it alarming that one falls exclusively on those who actually have the power, instead of leading a fair parliamentary four-party negotiation to a present law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You have heard today that you cannot meet extra-parliamentaryly!]] I remind you: In 1999, there was also an agreement among the club members in the house, in which exactly this four-party fairness was agreed in writing in terms of constitutional majority. On the matter itself: There has been a draft government which has, in many respects, negatively overtaken the old environmental assessment draft. But perhaps in these discussions we still have the opportunity to bring in and repair some of the original improvements in participation, participation, environmental procedures, arms equality between citizens and applicants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16533	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall first proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Molterer, Dr. Cap, Scheibner, Dr. Glawischnig, referred the subject matter back to the Environment Committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This request was adopted unanimously. That is why the vote on the motion itself is not going to take place. 5. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (641, p._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Environmental Information Act (UIG-Novelle 2004) (660 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (654 e.g._Other Organiser Aarhus Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making Procedures and Access to Courts in Environmental Matters and Declaration (662 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16589	We now come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Hornek is the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16619	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Estimated Members' Collegiates! High house! The starting point for the amendment of the Environmental Information Act is the Aarhus Convention, which focuses on increased openness and transparency. The increased public access to environmental information and the dissemination of this information contribute to enhancing environmental awareness, enabling the public to participate effectively in environmental decision-making processes and thereby improving environmental protection. Comprehensive information allows fears and prejudices between administration and citizens to be reduced and trust developed. The Convention, known as the Aarhus Convention, is the result of multi-annual negotiations with a view to giving public and non-governmental organisations an improved right of participation in the decisions taken by the authorities relating to the environment. In principle, the Aarhus Convention rests on three pillars. The first pillar deals with easier public access to information on the environment, the second pillar sets out improved public participation in certain environmental decisions, the third pillar regulates access to environmental courts. The novelle redefines the terms ‘environmental information’ or ‘information-based bodies’. In terms of content, these provide a clear extension of information rights, extending the concept of environmental information and at the same time clarifying it. It now covers the areas of environmental status, factors affecting the environment, cost-benefit analyses, health, safety and so on. In addition, the term ‘authorities’ has been replaced by the term ‘information authorities’ in the course of the amendment. The time limit for making environmental information accessible is reduced from eight weeks to one month. Summarically speaking, this novel means improving citizens' rights, improving our environment. I would ask you to agree to this future law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16668	Mr Krainer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16687	Madam President, Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Why this law improves the environment is not quite clear to me. It improves access to information about the environment! Why the environment is supposed to be better is a mystery to me. But perhaps someone else from the ÖVP can explain to me why this automatically improves the environment. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But who should explain this?]] - Yes, that's a good question. It was also more of a rhetorical question. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I will explain it to you!]] The Aarhus Convention gives the population three essential rights: Access to information, participation in the decision-making process and access to environmental information. Two of these rights will be implemented, either today or in the near future, as we hope. One is the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, which we referred back to the Committee just before; the other is the environmental information law now in force. We agree with both the Aarhus agreement and this Environmental Information Act. However, in the search for this law on an old brochure entitled “The Right to Environmental Information” by the Federal Ministry of the Environment, Youth and Family, we have a very youthful photo of one of your predecessors. This brochure is very interesting because I found something in it, a so-called environmental data catalogue. I've been looking for him, but I haven't found a link anywhere. I didn't find a link with you on the homepage, I didn't find a link at the Umweltbundesamt. I have had a bit of an impression that this environmental data catalogue should be hidden, so you should not find it. When I found him, it was also clear to me why he should have been hidden: because he consists of data that are absolutely incomplete and on average about ten years old. – That’s where I understand that you’re hiding it and not making a great link to it. It was very annoying that every year ministers – your party by chance – came here in this House and said in the budget negotiations: Please, we must implement a law, namely the Environmental Information Act. We have to provide an environmental data catalogue, according to law, and for that we need 3 million, 4 million. You've always been granted the money. But now I'm just wondering: What happened to this money? What has this money been spent on? I have already asked you this question in committee. You couldn't answer it in the short term and said we got it in writing. Unfortunately, I have not yet received it in writing. I assume that this will be the case in the next few days. But I still ask myself the question: How much money has even flown in there? For more than ten years, two, three, four million is not a small thing! That's about 30 million at least, and the question is: What happened to this money? Obviously, nothing has happened in the direction that this metadata bank would have been filled with data. - That's one. The other thing is that this should now be replaced by a system that is not yet in place, and I ask myself the question of how this system should look. Now I do not want to interfere in the question of whether a metadata bank is better or a different system. Almost all other countries do. The Germans have a metadata banking system, the Swiss went online just a few days ago. The question now arises why Austria does this differently, but for me the first question is: What happened to the money in the last ten years? Where's that sluggished? What happened to this money? - That's what I'm talking about. Furthermore, in accordance with the directive we are implementing, you must submit a report to the European Commission every four years, and I repeat my proposal to forward this report to Parliament as well. The first time would that be in 2009, but in the meantime, by February 2004 at the latest, you have already received guidelines for such a report, and it would be very nice of you if you would also forward it to us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16739	Next, Mr Wittauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16758	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Krainer, of course the environmental information is essential for efficiency and, of course, can also benefit the environment. I believe that everyone understands this, if – of course this is the prerequisite – the environmental information is handled in such a way that everyone gets it. [[Abg. Krainer: You can see it at the environmental data catalog!]] - No, I'm just criticizing that. It is surprising for me to hear that the data are ten years old. I hope that this will be changed quickly. But I have to say that from 1994 to 2000 there was another government with social democratic participation, and I wonder what happened in these six years. For four years now, there's been another one. – Yes, that is who the Minister is, the government responsibility is given everywhere, including with us. [[Abg. Krainer: Now it is your responsibility!]] Now I hope that this law will actually change something to the positive, because this innovation is already a step towards greater transparency in the administration and better informed citizens. Let's take the individual points! Environmental information: There the terms are specified and what is given in information on these areas. State of the environment: This is, I believe, an essential area in which something can be improved. Factors, measures or activities that have an impact on the environment or serve to protect it – also an essential point when it is implemented. Of course, the condition is always that it is implemented positively, and all of this has an immediate impact on the environment. Cost-benefit analyses and economic analyses in the context of these activities are, I believe, also useful to the environment. Information on the state of human health and safety including the contamination of the food chain. If I take all these points now, I have to say, of course: If we implement this law properly and if this data flow is running, we have taken a big step forward. I believe that this implementation will be successful. And if you, Mr Krainer, regularly look as closely as in the past, then, I believe, we must not be afraid of control. We'll do it. We welcome the fact that it is happening and that is why we are voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16806	Deputies! I only note that the request has not been filed. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Wittauer is sending back to the speaker's desk.]] Mr President, I am sorry! I would ask you to pass it on to your colleague. You have finished your word message. We only had 2 days to think. [[Abg. Krainer: He was completely confused!]] The next item is Mrs Dr Glawischnig's speech. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16850	Madam President. Mr Umweltminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens will give their consent to this amendment. It is a novel to the Environmental Information Act, and it has always had a special meaning for us: Knowledge is power, and especially if people know or want to know about matters, environmental information law, which comes essentially from the European Union, is a very, very important point of approach. When this was first implemented in Austrian law, there was also an application for this new possibility. This extends very far when comparing it with the Austrian legal tradition. In Austria, there has always been a very important historical burden such as office silence and very large restrictions to gain knowledge of the administration. The European Union Environment Information Directive is moving in a completely different direction. The trend in Europe is actually in the direction of opening up access to the knowledge of administration for the citizen and the citizen. What is now available here is essentially a 1 : 1-implementation of the EU Directive, which is, however, well done. Of course, there are other directives that are far from being transposed into Austrian environmental law. The EIA law, as we have seen before, is, for example, such a case. I would now like to draw out essential positive innovations because they are very relevant to the citizens. First: The environmental data concept has been expanded, especially in the whole area of food. For example, I personally tried to get environmental data on genetically modified foods, went to the ECJ, failed there, and had to deal with the fact that GMO-contaminated foods are not covered by the term environmental data. That is, I hope, with this novice past. The second very relevant point is that the concept of service providers has been extended. It is no longer only the administrative bodies that require administrative bodies to provide information, but also companies which are under the control of the public authorities. This means, for example, that the ÖBB or private drinking water supply companies or Austro Control are now also subject to information requirements. This is a major improvement for the citizen and the citizen. The third positive mention is: There is an active obligation to provide information in the event of a disaster. It wasn't so deciduously written before. What is a pity – and I would like to mention this on the negative side – is that the freedom of free movement, which I believe is very important, could have been excluded. But this door is now left open. This means that the possibility of adopting a fee regulation is still contained in the law. But I assume that, in Austria, the public and the citizen have a massive copy cost or whatever they want to know about environmental data. That's it. I would often like to see EU directives, which are definitely in favour of improving the rights of citizens in the environmental field, taken exclusively as a reason for making this improvement. In the previous law, at the UVP-Novelle, one has only partially taken over this improvement and then regained the level elsewhere, so that it does not become too much. I am looking forward to an improvement in the dedicated implementation of EU environmental law, which is why we Greens today also agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16905	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16923	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now I would particularly like to explain to Mr Jarolim what is contained in this new law, but at the moment he has unfortunately left the hall. Nevertheless, this implementation is an extremely important law, which has already been stressed by several speakers. I think that what is important in environmental policy, namely transparency, openness and access to information, is properly anchored here. This is the implementation in Austria, also based on the Aarhus Convention, of the transposition under Directive 2003/2004/EC on the adaptation of the Federal Environmental Information Act to the requirements of the Directive and of increased public access to environmental information. What are the cornerstones? What are the innovations in the quality of this implementation? – First of all: We clarify the concept of environmental information and at the same time extend it to include information on air, water and soil, including – and this is important especially in the light of the debate on genetically modified organisms – genetically modified organisms, substances, energy, emissions and the state of human health and contamination of the food chain. This is actually an extended circle that is affected. I mean, because of the current discussion, this is an important point. Second point: Extension of the information obligation to information bodies. If these were previously restricted mainly to public authorities, companies operating within the framework of general provisions – gas, water, electricity and so on – and in the influence of local authorities are also covered by the new information service. The third point is: We reduce the time limit for accessing environmental information normally to one month, so far it was eight weeks. In order to bring this to the attention of the people, ladies and gentlemen, I will publish a brochure with my house. Mr Krainer, I am also thinking about putting my picture into this brochure so that you can also carry me through the area in order to be able to advertise the environmental information law. In this sense, I think, it is an important milestone for the population to be able to get information and information. We are expanding the circle of places that have reporting obligations. We have also mastered this migration between protected data and public access to data within the meaning of the Aarhus Convention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16966	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e16987	Madam President. Federal Minister! I also welcome increased access to environmental information for the public. I think it can be important for the formation of opinions, even in the public, if we access a common basis of data. This seems to me to be very important personally on the one hand. On the other hand, this common access to a data base can also lead to a clarification of the discussion in decision-making procedures. The procedures – it has already been addressed several times today by the EIA – in the environmental field are essentially very complex, because many players are on the playing field: the project promoter, authorities, NGOs, citizens and citizens' initiatives. From my point of view, they are also marked by a long duration with possibly high costs and very high emotionality. I mean, everything that leads to a compromise in this area – and so I see this environmental information law – ultimately serves the matter. There are several examples: I am thinking of the 380 kV line in the Styria, I am thinking of the end line that we have been discussing precisely these points with high emotionality for years. I would also point out, ladies and gentlemen, in this context, that we should think more about how we manage such decision-making procedures, EIA, how we manage this high complexity. There are certain projects, such as the Vienna Airport, where we conduct mediation processes. That seems to be a possible variant. However, we also need to look more closely at how we can shape these decision-making processes in such a way that we finally come to a decision and do not delay the whole thing and be dragged away over years. Sometimes I have the impression that such projects are used politically, that sometimes such projects are also used to incite fears and prejudices. I therefore believe that if we have a good access to a common data base, we can relativize and corrupt it. That is why I can agree to this law. In addition, I would like to add that we have made a committee statement in the Committee because this data may also be about company data, which may affect third parties. There should be a correspondingly clear limit and clear handling. In this sense, my group will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17030	The next speaker was Mrs Scharer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17048	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ will agree to this amendment. Unfortunately, however, Mr Minister, Austria has been judged and betrayed by the EU Commission in this matter with a lack of judgment. As in many matters, this government reacts only after pressure from the outside and does not do its homework. That is what we are criticizing, Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is important to us from the SPÖ that the information policy is substantially improved and expanded for citizens who have a right to be informed openly and honestly. Participation in environmental issues strengthens the environmental awareness of the population and is a sustainable means of protecting our environment. That's what we want, Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We call on the Federal Government – and you in particular, Mr Minister – to ensure greater transparency in the management, in the procedures, clear and comprehensive information to all parties involved, as well as transparent environmental and crisis management. Take an example of the Salzburg model, at the company Leube in Salzburg-Gartenau. The cement plant ventured into a waste burning plant with the combustion of animal flour, car tyres and plastics in a particularly sensitive area. The Citizen Council was involved from the beginning. One third of the proceeds were committed to environmental investments. The emission values are closely monitored, the Citizen's Advisory Board has the certainty that any deterioration in the situation, which hopefully does not occur, will or can be stopped. Without the company Leube having agreed with the Citizen Advisory Council – consisting of locals, representatives of surrounding communities and citizens’ initiatives – the introduction of this new technology would have been blocked, delayed, but also made impossible. Minister! A brochure with your picture alone will not be enough. Take an example of this! Action@title: column You're fast and unbureaucratic! Take the affected citizens seriously!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17106	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17124	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Citizens' administration and, in particular, transparency in the administration of the Federal Government is a major concern. This revision of the Environmental Information Act is part of the citizens' service. It is already formally seen in the redesign of the concept of authority that the authorities are now referred to as ‘information authorities’. This will certainly lead to a reduction in prejudices between administrations and citizens. Environmental information is already available now, but even very often for experts due to the type of its issue. If you get data from the Federal Environment Agency, you get meters of tables or analogous information. There is also often very laborious further processing. It is therefore very welcome that environmental information will be disseminated in the future through modern information and communication technologies, which will provide better customer-orientedness, transparency and efficiency. This also certainly makes a contribution to the Federal Government's e-government and general ICT strategy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A citizen-friendly access will make all the information on environmental issues interesting to every citizen, especially because of health, food and living conditions. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. Access to environmental information will also be accelerated from eight to four weeks in the future. A request to the Minister of State: This environmental information regarding citizens may be informed that this information will continue to be available in a simple way in the future. Then, I hope, this information will also be used very strongly and often by the citizens in the future. To conclude, I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17196	This request has now also been properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Kainz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17218	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! We are living today in a time of information. Every citizen learns about those areas he is interested in, gets the information, is also eager to know and wants to actively contribute to those areas that shape and shape his direct environment. I believe that the citizen has a right to receive the information he would like to receive for those processes that concern his direct living environment. As mayor, but also as a representative in my constituency, I have had the experience of giving the material information, because it is the basis for dealing with a subject in an objective way. However, I would warn that this information society and the information flood we have today are being exploited in order to ultimately have a polemic access to certain subject matter. Austria is no doubt a pioneer in environmental policy in the European Union, but also worldwide. When I think of Lower Austria alone: We have many dedicated municipalities and citizens. 60 percent of the citizens of Lower Austria live in climate alliance communities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also the basis for a very high sensitivity and also a high willingness to engage in environmental issues. The amendment to the Environmental Information Act is a consensual matter. All the speakers have already articulated this at this point today. It ultimately serves to implement the European Community Environmental Information Directive. But I am currently dealing with a subject as representative of the constituency and district of Baden. This is the mediation procedure with the airport Schwechat. It is here that I notice a change in the flight routes which, as part of this great mediation procedure, concerns my community, my neighboring community Traiskirchen and also Baden. In this area, we want to be actively involved. We will also use this mediation procedure to present our position and the wishes of the population in such a way that these environmental issues, which are legitimately introduced, also find their precipitation. That is why I am pleased that this Environmental Information Act is once again a step closer to the goal, with more transparency and more information about the citizen. This is ultimately good for a continuing commitment to environmental policy for the benefit of citizens in our communities, in our country and in our Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17269	Next item is the report by Mrs Pepper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17287	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about the matter of law under consideration, and it has also been mentioned that this novel is intended to adapt the Environmental Information Act to the requirements of the EU Directive 2003 and the Aarhus Convention. In my opinion, it is very important to have increased public access to environmental information. This information can be provided in a variety of forms, both in written and electronic form. It is also intended to help reduce prejudices and fears in the area of environmental protection, which arise between citizens and the administration in contact with each other, or to strengthen citizens' confidence in environmental protection. I wish that this would succeed, and can also show by an example that it is possible. Twelve years ago, the National Park Neusiedler See – Seewinkel was founded, and at that time the distrust of environmental protection was very great. The land owners and also the arrants could not imagine that soil and soil for nature conservation should be partly broken. Of course, financial compensation has also heightened awareness. Today, after 12 years of this national park, it is a matter of course that this area has been protected by the animal and plant world and, subsequently, by tourism, which is also very important. How important it is to share this environmental information, the nearly 50,000 visitors in the information center of the National Park in Illmitz also show the countless access to the homepage. As we too, Mr Federal Minister, appreciate the importance of this innovation, we will give our support to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17330	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Long rider. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17348	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Consensual willingness by all the parties represented in this House is already something that also demonstrates some confidence in the environmental policy measures that our Federal Minister and the Federal Government are setting and which they are also mastering. Of course, this is about formal matters. On the one hand, the implementation of an EU Directive or the adaptation of the Environmental Information Act to the requirements of the EU Directive and, on the other hand, improved access to information. Of course, it is also about formal conditions, not only about improved access, but also about accelerated access. The material change which I am particularly aware of is that of extending the term “environmental information” and, on the other hand, extending it to “information-based bodies”. It is no longer only the classical authorities, but also the so-called art-related companies, or companies acting in the influence of the local authorities, that have a corresponding obligation to provide information. When talking about information that is to be accessible to everyone, it is of course appropriate for such a matter to be observed that personal data on the one hand and public interest on the other. There's going to be a walk. The so-called communication barriers, just as they are enshrined in the law, and the balance of interests, namely, to what extent public interest outweighs the disclosure of the information of a third party, which may have the same disadvantages, also ensure many relevant environmental procedures. It is, I believe, necessary and targeting that we provide the necessary information with thoughtful and careful handling of environmental processes. I do not think we can speak of a sufficient one in terms of our environmental policy. I'd disapprove of a made-up. I'd say, She's good to very good. Maybe that's where the opposition says: That is exaggerating!, but if I allow the current debate to happen and look at this consensual matter, which is backed by information and participation in environmental processes, and if I consider the implementation of the law, I am not concerned about environmental policy in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17385	Next, I shall give the floor to Mr Schofp. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17404	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! I think that if Austria were not a member of the European Union, there would be no significant environmental policy measures by this government. took more. This is sad and embarrassing, and this also shows the fact that we are now dealing with this novel on the basis of recommendations or in the implementation of an EU directive. Minister! It is important for our people not only to disclose and pass on information, but also to give every citizen and every citizen the possibility of unbureaucratic, easy and, above all, quick access to the environmental data relevant to him/her and his/her/her/her/her/herself. I ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to understand your obligation to provide information not only as a culprit of citizens, but also as a source of guilt for your part. I ask you to act like this. That is to say, you and your and our ‘information services’, which are now happily replacing the old government concept, must not lean back and wait until someone wants to come and know something, but you, Mr. Federal Minister, must ensure that the citizens are automatically informed about the important data. Especially in my home country, the Mühlviertel, which is known to be the border region with the Czech Republic, where we have massive problems and difficulties with the Temelín nuclear power plant, it is important to inform the population in detail about radiation hazards. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the meantime, there have already been more than 70 incidents in the test operation. The information about these incidents is rightly felt by the population as far too poor. I therefore call on you, Minister, to become active in this matter and to improve the situation there. It is too little to inform afterwards about incidents. It is absolutely necessary to inform prophylacticly in advance of such dangers on the basis of instructions and plans. In addition to the nuclear danger from Temelín, my home district, especially my hometown of Pregarten, was victims of the devastating flood two years ago, in August 2002, which unfortunately claimed nine deaths and caused a total damage in the order of about €3 billion. There was no timely information to the population at that time. There was no crisis plan. No one in the population knew something about crisis management and what to do in the event of an emergency. In order for this to be repeated in the future, Mr Minister, the crisis plans must finally be completed, finally presented to the population. I think that's extremely important. The next flood may come at any time. A corresponding information campaign must therefore be implemented immediately. Positively, the environmental information remains free, although limited to more how to read. In order for this to remain the same, Mr Minister, you must take care of it. You owe it to the population. It should not be the case that citizens must pay once for environmental information relating to their own interests. That you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, do not, in your hunger for stress, come to the idea of also depositing environmental information – you would trust it in the face of your previous policy – that we will pay very close attention to it from the sides of social democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17461	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, 3 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17481	Madam President. Minister! High house! In times of an increasingly interconnected world, where measures often have a global impact on the environment, comprehensive and complete information from the public about the environment is of enormous importance. For example, measures to improve the air, prevent radiation accidents or deal with or deal with genetically modified organisms are becoming increasingly important. Especially because these major environmental challenges are often only to be addressed across countries, information on them is more important than ever. I therefore particularly welcome the present UIG-Novelle, which is to be decided on the basis of a directive to be implemented in all EU Member States by February 2005. This will give Austrian citizens much greater access to information on the environment than before. The ÖVP with Federal Minister Pröll is a pioneer in the field of environmental policy, including environmental information, throughout Europe – and I can say that again. I think that the criticism of Mrs Schahrer and Mr Schopf is totally inappropriate. There are a number of environmental measures that have been introduced in recent years and also in recent months. I recall the eco electricity law, the Biofuel Directive et cetera. These are really measures that will be sustainable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! I would just like to briefly mention the most important aspects of this bill. The extension or clarification of the concept of environmental information is important. In addition to the information already available on soil, air, water and cetera, it is now particularly important for the genetically modified organisms. This is very important for consumers and farmers in the future. It also concerns the extension of the information services, including companies within the framework of the general provision of services et cetera. In the future, active and systematic information, i.e. periodic updating, is also important. It is also important to shorten from eight weeks to four weeks. Ladies and gentlemen! However, environmental information is not always of equal global relevance. There are also often so-called regional significant measures, significant plans. On the basis of a specific example, I would like to conclude my remarks. This concerns forest spatial planning. This is planning for the habitat forest and for its users. It will not be so well known that the presentation and forecasting planning of forest conditions also fall within this Environmental Information Act. There are three plans. The first is the forest development plan, which concerns the effects of the forest. The second is the danger zone plan for the wildlife and avalanche-hazardous areas as well as the risk level. The third is the so-called forest plan, where it is primarily about the self-interests of forest owners. This plan may well be included in the forest development plan, and therefore it is also the subject of the UIG, which also includes opinions, decisions, plans, programmes et cetera. Therefore, a corresponding desire to provide the data must be met, and this will, of course, always be ensured. We from the EIA and also from this government are working for this guarantee, for this guarantee. Unfortunately – and I should like to mention this as the last point – the population is often taken far too little into account in forest planning and the presence of the positive effect of the forest is considered too obvious. This government ensures that environmental information is available richly. But they also need to be picked up. We are not only allowed to produce – as a comment for the future – data whose production costs a lot of money, because there must also be a cost-benefit consideration for environmental information. Now we have reached a standard that is truly tangible, but we must be careful for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17552	Mr Gahr has been mentioned as the last speaker. Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17570	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The course of the debate has shown that there is quite consensus on improving standards when it comes to the environment and the importance of the environment. The fact that we are implementing an EU directive with the present environmental information law is, I believe, for the sake of everyone. I did not understand the statement made by Mr Schopf, in which he claimed that Austria is only making EU adjustments in the field of the environment. I think Austria is an example country internationally and Europe-wide in the field of the environment, and under the leadership of Federal Minister Pröll, we are extremely committed to furthering together. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's it!]] The aim of this Environmental Information Act is to inform and actively involve our citizens. A second important point is that, in addition to government organisations and institutions, public services companies are also covered by the obligation to provide information. The challenges for the future are such that we have to take environmental impacts seriously, that we have to focus on environmental protection preventively and sustainablely, and that we have to reduce and reduce environmental pollution where it exists. This Environmental Information Act covers on the one hand our resources soil, water and air, as well as factors such as energy emissions and noise, and it is likely that we also deal with economic and environmental issues fairly and openly. I am grateful that there is a broad agreement on this matter of law. This will increase the quality of the information. You can say: In the future, information will be more citizen-friendly, with more transparency and insight. There are shorter deadlines, and there is better access to information. The information must be prepared in such a way that it is also understandable, and it must also be accessible with new technologies. It is about dealing with the obligation to provide information no longer about authorities, but – that is the new name – about ‘information authorities’. We will be happy to agree to this matter of law. The environment will benefit. - Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17607	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Environmental Information Act, including the title and receipt in 641 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – The draft law has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the State Treaty in 654 of the Supplements. In Hiezu, Members of Parliament have made a request in the form of Head, Krainer, Wittauer, Glavischnig, Members of Parliament that the retention of compliance should be avoided. We therefore proceed to the vote on the request, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Aarhus Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making Procedures and Access to Courts in Environmental Matters, together with Declaration in 654 of Supplements, to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. The request was adopted unanimously. We shall also vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the French and Russian language versions of the Convention are announced by the fact that they are available for public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. The request was adopted unanimously. 7. Point Report of the National Defence Committee on the Government Template (652, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Military Power Act (667 d.b.) 8. Point Report and request of the National Defence Committee on the draft Constitutional Law, which enshrines the freedom of guidance of law enforcement officers (668, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17696	We now come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are now going into the debate. As First of all, Mr Gaál. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17723	Madam President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the ÖVP:Feelback hunters... Favorites!]] We were particularly concerned in the Military Power Act with the legal basis for the action of military services, with a sufficient, clear legal regime to increase legal certainty in this, but very, very sensitive area, but all our concerns and concerns were often rejected by you – and I would also think – as unjustly criticised. So we had to turn to the Constitutional Court, and it has given our request law in broad areas and has abolished important provisions of this federal law as unconstitutional. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Federal Minister! You know: The possibility of making provisional arrests was tilted without any concrete suspicion of crime. The provision allowing hidden investigations and video surveillance for intelligence purposes was also repealed. In addition, the provisions concerning the legal protection officers were also rejected as unconstitutional. An objection was rejected and the remaining complaints were merely rejected for formal reasons. So our doubts remain true, Minister of State. Although the Military Power Act has been repaired with regard to the provisions referred to, I admit, this amendment does not go so far as to: They were able to address our concerns, in particular, Mr Federal Minister, were not sufficiently taken into account as regards the security police powers and the possibility of legitimizing – which we, as I am pleased to admit, have put on the tag “License to Lie”, but this is also possible in this novel. That is why we reject this proposal, Minister of State. Not only today, but since the existence of this law, we have repeatedly called for greater, effective control by Parliament. The legal protection officer is only more auxiliary body and no more control body, Mr. Federal Minister. They themselves order the legal protection officer and therefore also withdraw your obligation to provide information to the legal protection officer at the same time. This is the order of the controller himself. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote!]] That is why, Minister of State, we are right to say: Legal protection is too short here because the legal protection officer is again defined as the body of the Minister. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We insist on three legal protection bodies, which are the institutions of the National Council and which must report to Parliament, Minister of State. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] If Mr Murauer often mentions that this is systemic – dear friend, it has been falsely claimed by you – then I must say: We do not justify and block anything here, but we demand – and there we have an opinion with the Constitutional Court – independent and strong legal protection! Mr Federal Minister, we are happy to continue to negotiate with you about a comprehensive repair of this leased law. We are willing to discuss comprehensive, efficient control by Parliament. Otherwise, you have the responsibility to assume that there was a good chance here to repair the legal protection. By the end of the year, Mr Federal Minister, you still have time to deal with our proposals. As I said, We are happy to be available. Perhaps we will create a genuinely strong legal protection which will ensure Parliament's control.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17782	The next speaker was Mr Murauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17801	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear colleague and spokesperson Anton Gaál, the military authority law was, as you correctly mentioned, examined by the Constitutional Court, but not, as you think, repealed in substantial positions, but only a few positions were corrected, including... [[Abg. Of course: “Some positions”! The core positions have been removed!]] – Which one, for example, Mr. Collegue? Let's help! Which have been lifted? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Grade: (Quoting from a document)... hidden investigations,...!]] – Among other things, provisions relating to the legal guardians! Now I can remind you that we – but it has been a long time since, 1997! . jointly, that is, with the voice of the SPÖs, who have simply adopted legislation. We both remember that the world was of course all right. Today it is a question of giving more importance to these legal guardians, raising them to the constitutional rank – and this is rejected! There is no security police law on the discussion, in which there is also a legal protection officer. That should not be her problem, but only in the military power law! But I don't think you can say: Well, if the Constitutional Court objected to something, then we have to judge it again, don't we?- Oh, my God! The Federal Minister Platter took this seriously and corrected the arrest authority accordingly, the treatment of the arrested as well as image and sound records during the hidden investigation or observation. We decide to make this correction today, and that is a good thing. A law is being reformed! Now the Constitutional Court also draws attention to the fact that the legal protection officer should also be placed in the constitutional rank. The SPÖ says: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If the Constitutional Court asks for something, it is our opinion that this should be done because the highest instance is and we have to follow it! That's perfectly right, too. Only: Either – or, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! Either – or! It is already a political continuity of the special class: If I need it, I tell you, if I don't need it, then it's different! This, please, we can't do it. I mean, you still have an opportunity to correct this right here... – Still not? [[Abg. Gradwell:... has still not understood!]] Yeah, it's gonna be hard now. Again: The Constitutional Court also wants to have the legal protection officer in the constitutional rank, and we would have to decide today. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Then move a little bit! Just a little movement!]] Unfortunately, you do not decide how you have announced this in the Committee! We also correct the other positions. I mean, it's not very difficult to understand. I already understand that you don't want to understand a lot. I want to assign this to you, but it's a question of will, isn't it? [[Abg. Gaál: More rights for Parliament!]] I would not like to remind you that this is unfortunately the case with you in other political fields: Where it fits, we are for it! Where it does not fit, of course we are against it! – It has already been made aware of the zero deficit in the discussion today. First, you said: It's impossible, zero deficit, that's impossible in our country, everything breaks up! Mr Gusenbauer then said that it would have to be in the Constitution. Then a relativization of the zero deficit. So, there has been no continuity! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: Know the quote: Never owe us again!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Or, at the last financial compensatory negotiations, Mr Häupl and Mr Rieder, who are members of the Social Democracy, voted there. [[Abg. Gaál: But he has nothing to do with the military authority law!]] Now say It's simple: Well, we do not really want to see that, and have withdrawn, if they have voted for us in the financial compensatory negotiations. We'll see what it looks like tomorrow, won't we? We read the newspapers and we'll hear something new again. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] Today we are dealing with the Military Power Act, and we should raise the legal protection officer to a higher rank, namely in the constitutional rank. You should give your consent to this! [[Abg. Gaál: More rights for Parliament!]] I hope you can move there. It's not a very long way away.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17966	Mr Pilz is speaking as the next speaker. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e17985	Ladies and gentlemen! If the last part of this speech has been held within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, the Mayor of Vienna is subject to the Military Power Act – and this is an alarming state! [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of SPÖ.]] To the Military Power Act, as I have known and know so far, the following remark: The main discussion took place – and has been pointed out – on the establishment of the legal protection officer. The EIA proposes to "absorbing" the legal protection officer; at what level, it is not yet quite clear. [[Abg. Amon: Just not you!]] He is to be given a constitutional position – and it is assumed that this will strengthen his independence. It is worth examining the counter-proposal, how it has been constantly ventilated by Toni Gaál and also by us, but not seriously discussed by the government parties. [[Abg. Hornek: Well, how does he look?]] We have found a very simple problem: The legal protection officer has the task of examining in that area the Federal Minister and the responsible officials in his duties. Who employs the legal protection officer and is looking for him? – The Federal Minister! [[Abg. Murauer: So? Who else? Mr. Pilz, who else?]] It is certainly not common for the one being tested to determine his examiner. It is very unlikely that the person to be tested will say: I'm looking for the very sharpest examiner now, because I want to experience something! [[Call to the ÖVP: It does not examine the Minister!]] – I do not want to put this kind of behaviour under the responsibility of the current Minister of Defense, which I personally appreciate, because it would be completely irrational. Secondly, To whom does the Legal Protection Officer return his report? To the Minister who ordered him! [[Abg. Murauer: And the Subcommittee!]] That too is unusual. The Minister shall forward the report to the Subcommittee. The third question relates to this, and that is a question which I assume is that it deals with the Minister of Defence in our sense, the Minister of the Interior – I cannot ask this question here – in any sense, but there we will have to repeat this question with greater emphasis, namely the question: Is such a report 1 : 1 forwarded; without any change in detail? [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: He's going to be falsified!]] No, no, no, I am personally very sure that Federal Minister Platter can answer this question positively, because there is no indication that there could be any problems in the Ministry of Defence. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: But at Strasser you are not so sure!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] – Only: We consider this construction itself to be extremely problematic and certainly not for the best construction in the sense of a truly functioning control! There is only one place that can ensure this control, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Hornek: This is the fungus!]] That's us, that's our National Council! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: And who is in the Subcommittee? Who?]] Bring yourself more appreciation! Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ: Yes, we believe we are good enough to select a legal protection officer and to be able to support him/her in his/her work! We from the opposition trust us in this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18146	The next item is the report by Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18164	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The coalition from ÖVP and FPÖ has a military- It was decided that the SPÖ and the Greens as opposition parties voted against, which is, of course, legitimate from the parliamentary sequence. The SPÖ has essentially brought this law before the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court has examined it. In this examination some things have been rejected and some have been granted, and the government has taken this seriously. The government has observed those objections of the Constitutional Court in this novel! It takes into account what the Constitutional Court has recognized, and that is why the intention of the SPÖ is here - in the transferred sense - also in accordance with the intentions of the SPÖ. Therefore, I did not believe to trust my ears either, when Mr Gaál stated here that the SPÖ would not agree to this. Ladies and gentlemen! It is essentially about three clarifications of legislative passages. It is not a question of rejecting and withdrawing, but of clarifying the rights of the institutions that are in the guard, of specifying the treatment of provisionally arrested – and also of more precise rules regarding observation. These are essentially three small things to be specified in this law; these suggestions are accepted by this novel. However, there is also a fourth point, a more essential one concerning the establishment of the legal protection officer. To this end, the Constitutional Court suggests that this legal protection officer should be free of discretion – and that a simple legal regime is not enough to make him point-free. That is why we are today proposing that the legal protection officer be set free, and it is really surprising that the SPÖ does not agree with such a request. Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentary control is taking place in the Standing Subcommittee, Mr Pilz. This is an accompanying parliamentary control in the Standing Subcommittee of the National Defence Committee, to which the Minister submits the report of the Legal Protection Officer. The Minister himself is subject to parliamentary control, so all the mechanisms we have available as parliamentarians can be used here. That is why it is incomprehensible for me that you did not agree with the SPÖ of this innovation, which you requested and, so to speak, led in the way. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18227	As the next speaker, Mrs Pepper is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18246	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It should be noted not only that in the presentation of the Military Power Act there is a lack of legal protection, but also that the government parties were not prepared to take advantage of the opportunity given to them by the Constitutional Court to redefine the tasks and powers of the military services and the associated reforms. The Husch-Puff actions, with which so many laws – not only the Military Power Act – are whipped through, are more than worrying! Mr Murauer, we want more control for Parliament! You too are parliamentarians! Therefore: Don't you want that too? [[Abg. Murauer: And who is in the Subcommittee? Are there other people than parliamentarians sitting there?]] To remember: The Constitutional Court annulled three controversial parts of this law: The possibility of carrying out provisional arrests, even without any concrete suspicion of crime, was tilted. Furthermore, the determination was made to allow hidden investigations and video surveillance for the purposes of intelligence. The provisions for the legal protection officer who had been unconstitutionally bound were also tilted. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: I find the claim that the legal protection officer as the body of the National Council would be system-absorbing and invading the separation of power absurd and therefore reject it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Parliament is very familiar with special tasks of execution; such participation is regulated in the main committee, for all the German forces: abroad and in the EU, with regard to military matters. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, you still have until 30. December time to repair this law. – Today have I'm afraid you're the first chance here. We from SPÖ, as has already been mentioned, exist on three legal protection officers: one according to the Security Police Act, according to the Criminal Code and the Military Power Act, and these three are to be used together as an institution in the National Council and report here. Although improvements have been made – I admit – but are not largely enough – our doubts have not been resolved – we cannot accept this proposal. Ours No to this template remains upright.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18298	Mr Platter has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18317	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, from my point of view, a fundamental point of view as regards the debate on the revision of the Military Power Act. First of all: In a rule of law such as Austria, it is important that powers of state institutions are clearly regulated. Secondly, It is obvious to me, of course, that in our state legal protection is very pronounced, that the laws must also be kept under review and that state action and the laws of the Constitution should be fully in line. The Military Power Act was passed in 2000 and entered into force in 2001. This revision of the Military Power Act has become necessary because the Constitutional Court has come to the conclusion that some provisions need to be modified. I have given a clear definition in this regard. The requirement was that 100 percent of the intention of the Constitutional Court should be taken into account. The Constitutional Court raised the following points: First point: Arrest without suspicion, second point: the transfer of arrested persons in the Security Service institutions, third point: the powers of observation, hidden investigation and, in addition, image and sound recording for intelligence, fourth point: that the freedom of guidance and independence of legal guardians are raised in the constitutional rank. On these individual provisions. First point: The arrest without suspicion will no longer exist, so this point has corresponded to 100 percent of the intention of the Constitutional Court. Second point: The transfer of a arrested person will take place, as proposed, to the courts and security authorities in the future. Therefore, 100 percent of the intention of the Constitutional Court was also taken into account. The third point relates to the powers of observation, hidden investigation, but also to audio and image recording for the purpose of intelligence. There was the intention that legal protection should be extended even further, and we did so. That is, before these data findings are made, the Data Protection Officer must be informed, and only after the Legal Protection Officer has given his O.K., or after three days these data surveys will be carried out. Therefore, 100 percent of the intention of the Constitutional Court was also taken into account. The fourth point cited by the Constitutional Court is that the freedom of guidance and independence of legal guardians are raised in the constitutional order. But this is only possible if we get the two-thirds majority for it. We have modified all the provisions – you will give me a right – of the Constitutional Court in such a way that we have taken 100 percent of its intentions into account. Everything else mentioned here was not criticized by the Constitutional Court. I would like to refer to Mr Pilz's speech on his statement on the election of the legal protection officer. You know that it takes place after consulting the three Presidents of the National Council, the Administrative Court President and the Constitutional Court President. You didn't hear a discussion that this wasn't all right. Secondly, the report will be discussed in the Subcommittee. Even if the Federal Minister as the Minister responsible for this department submits the report, the Legal Protection Officers are present at the Subcommittee on Defence of the State, and as you have all noted, I have repeatedly given the floor to the Legal Protection Officer so that they can speak and answer. There is therefore complete transparency. Thirdly, I do not think we need to talk about this, nor has it been meant that a change in the report would not be possible. I would ask you to bring the discussion to the right level. We have done everything that was necessary to make 100 percent of what the Constitutional Court has called for. We've expanded the legal protection. I would also like to say that we in Austria are a model for excellent legal protection. That is why my appeal is that this legal protection officer should be independent and independent, and that requires approval by two-thirds of the majority here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18397	Mrs Stadler is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18415	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! This government template was necessary because the Constitutional Court in its knowledge has repealed some provisions to the legal protection officer. At the heart of this was the independence and freedom of guidance of the legal protection officer. The present Government template takes full account of this knowledge. In addition to other points, this freedom of guidance and independence is even placed in the constitutional rank. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I assume that you will ensure the appropriate constitutional majority because otherwise your message would be that you are against independence and against freedom of guidance, or, vice versa, that you support commitment and dependence. If your previous donations are not empty words, then I can only imagine an agreement on your part. On your proposal to install the Legal Protection Officer as the institution of Parliament: The form of the legal protection officer was not withdrawn by the VfGH. On the contrary: The legal protection officer must be involved in the work, must cooperate closely with the Ministry. Parliament is the control body and, as such, it should act and act in the subcommittee in which Members of this Parliament sit. Finally, a comment on your criticism of source protection: If information services are to function properly, it will also be necessary that there is a form of source protection. If there is a withdrawal of the source protection, the information services would prove to be toothless. They would de facto be out of control. Source protection under certain criteria is necessary in order to keep services upright and, above all, effective. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! People's safety is a top priority. In order to ensure security, a balanced balance between individual freedom and security instruments is necessary. Only when security instruments work will the individual freedom of the Austrians be guaranteed – and that is, I believe, our common goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18465	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. I'm sorry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18483	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Murauer! – Unfortunately, he doesn’t listen to me again; but that doesn’t matter! Mr Minister, I would like to address you: I accept that the intentions of the Constitutional Court have been taken into account; that is not a question. But a little cold it should already run over our backs if we must expressly stress this in this Parliament. We must expressly stress it because the head of state of Carinthia has very little to do with constitutional court decisions, and also the Minister of the Interior smiles at the findings of the Constitutional Court. That, ladies and gentlemen, should give us some thought. On the points, Mr Murauer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] I suppose after you have heard it three times, you will know what serious points the Constitutional Court has addressed. These points are not minor, but they are fundamental rights in our democracy, which we are discussing today. Now to the Legal Protection Officer: By no means has the Constitutional Court proposed that the legal protection officer, as he is, should be appointed to the constitutional rank. All these objections that we present are not new, which have existed since 2000. They kept pushing them to the side again and again. Much of what we discussed in the previous year, which we discussed in 2000, is being implemented today. It is only until one falls on the nose that our proposals will be addressed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This legal protection officer needs the support of Parliament in the form we propose. An example of this: The Federal Parliamentary Committee on Complaints is set up in the constitutional order and by Parliament. There has been a Federal Minister from your ranks who, despite this constitutional provision, considered that this Commission of Appeal was an auxiliary body of the Federal Ministry of State Defense. There are examples of this, so I ask you to be careful. The Committee's work, Mr Bösch, would have been possible. During your presidency, there were four meetings of the National Defence Committee, which is not much. Relevant topics have not been addressed. I would like to address another question to you, Mr Federal Minister, if I have misinterpreted it. I read in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” that I intend to do on 25 May. November to make a message for the Battle Groups. There has also been no talk about this in the National Defence Committee. You have the opportunity to explain today whether you want to join, and if so, how?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18549	Next item is the report by Mr Fauland. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18568	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! This discussion is a bit strange. Until the accusations that too little work is being done in the National Defence Committee, this time everything was in place again, but we are used to that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] The Military Power Act regulates the competences of the Federal Government. It is a good law. In the run-up to this law, there have been different rules in the Military Criminal Law and in other standards. These have been summarized, and therefore it is a good law that has proved itself. The adaptations which have now been demanded by the Constitutional Court are certainly not as serious as they are now, because they have mainly affected parts which have not actually been applied in practice. However, a substantial part is, despite all, the area of military services. We know we have a defence department and an army news department. The services are shared, including with regard to their tasks, and that is a good thing. [[Calls and calls between MEPs Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer and Dr. Bösch.]] - Quiet! I'm asking for attention, no interlocutory talks! The services have their rights, but they are a convoy of machinations that are very likely to be subject to control. This control would also be done well by a non-profit-making legal representative. But what the SPÖ is doing here is actually a weakening of control. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] This is a weakening of control because you do not comply with the Constitutional Court's recommendation. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] They do not want to comply with this recommendation, which is well known. Take this failure to comply with the recommendation They also provide the legal protection officer with constitutional freedom of guidance. Let us now focus on the case of a Federal Minister, of course not of this Federal Minister, but of one who does not comply with the rules of the game. Then this Federal Minister can say something in his report in the Standing Subcommittee, which may not entirely correspond to the facts, because there has been no possibility that a non-profit-making legal representative will intervene. So you're actually provoking abuse, and that should not be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18643	The next item is Mrs Stadlbauer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18661	Mr President. Minister! Very thin are the arguments of the representatives of the government parties, but they at least contribute to the general awakening. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This law is a classic example of this ÖVP and FPÖ government's Husch-Puff law. [[Abg. Murauer: Husch-Puff can't really be said!]] There are many reasons why we are opposed, apart from the fact that the Legal Protection Officer should be a minister's body. We want him to be under the National Council. A second, not uninteresting aspect is that the regulation for the work of the legal protection officer is actually more than stretchable because it receives information only if it does not endanger the national security or safety of people. That is, with confidence, but rather a rubber paragraph, because where is it not about national security or the safety of people? There, we can see that now, any abuse can be done. On this passus all can withdraw at any time. Thus, any work of the legal protection officer is already restricted. Especially in times such as those in which the conservative forces so gladly call on national security and the threat of it everywhere, only to advance their own interests, without benefit to the people, that is quite worrying. Another very interesting aspect: This is the staff provided to the legal protection officer, who is not set free of discretion or not subordinated to the legal protection officer. § 57 standardises that the legal protection officer should be provided with the necessary personnel to manage his administrative activity. However, there is no indication that it is bound by the instructions of the legal protection officer. No, it's still under the Minister. Now I ask you: How do you imagine that? – Either it is no matter what work the legal protection officer does for employees, or there will be a huge pressure on the persons. They are torn between the support for the legal protection officer and loyalty to the Minister. You can't really be serious. For reasons of democracy, but also for the protection of these employees, this law should therefore be amended. It is above all a weaker regulation, as we have it at the public prosecutor's office, for example. That is quite clear. So you cannot argue that it is just as regulated in other areas as it is here. On the contrary! That is why I can only assume that you intend to keep an open back door in order to be able to intervene if necessary. That's democracy policy for you! [[Abg. Murauer: What “Hinterdoor”?]] To stay with the state defense and the federal army, we see ourselves § 4 para. 7 of the Weir's Law! Hiebei is concerned with the Federal Army Complaint Commission – Mr Murauer, you are a member there – and about the structure and organisation of the same. [[Abg. Murauer: Yes, why do you know that?]] See – I quote –: The staff provided shall be bound solely by instructions from the Chairperson of the Board of Appeal in the case of activities of the Board of Appeal. - Quote. But you have consistently ignored that. [[Abg. Murauer: This is not for discussion!]] I can only ask the same questions over and over again: What's the reason? What do you want to cover up, or why do you at least want to be able to hide something? My end from your Acting is: You're bothered by the fundamental rights, you're annoying with democracy, you're driving over it again, you're modifying a little, you're adapting a little and impoverished a little. But we stand for something else, namely more democracy, and we want optimal legal protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18747	The next item is the speech by Mr Pack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18765	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Danger research is a contribution to greater security and legal certainty, which a certain Mr Schlögl once said. But one could also say: Security promotes freedom or freedom demands security. The basic problem in the discussion, I believe, is that of course security and freedom or civil rights do not always understand each other well. As a result, we need appropriate control and security at our intelligence services. The Military Power Act, as it is now being innovationized, as well as the Legal Protection Officer, ensure exactly this control and security, so that nothing goes wrong, I say now. Perhaps before now what the Legal Protection Officer is responsible for. As his name says, to legal control of measures of intelligence or defence. For nothing else. He shall be informed of the relevant documents or of the information requested by him. It has now already been compared twice in a row with the Federal Parliamentary Committee on Complaints. I myself have the honour of sitting in this Commission, although only as a replacement member, but I am very often present and can say: It does a good job, but of course it cannot be compared with the legal protection officer when it comes to the security of the country of Austria and the protection of such important data. I do not think that such a comparison can be made. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One point that is also mentioned in press releases: Military services must announce their sources. - That can't be! If a journalist announces his informants, he will certainly not write a second story, and if you ask colleagues here in Parliament to reveal their sources, then some accusations would fall into the groundless. [[Abg. Murauer: So source protection is perfectly correct!]] That's it! We want an independent and non-profit-making legal representative. Think about your voice again! Vote for security, vote for more control and for a secure control and thereby show you also responsibility for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18808	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18826	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pack, we only demand the same right as the public prosecutor. [[Abg. Pack: But this is not a popular prosecution! You can't compare that! That's something else!]] The Military Power Act, ladies and gentlemen, is one of many misdeeds of this federal government, which has not maintained a review by the Constitutional Court. The problem has been referred to several times by all sides. The solutions to be taken have also been explained several times. I would therefore like to make a repetition of all of this. However, I would like to point out that the SPÖ has expressed concerns about this law from the very beginning, which, as has been so often in the past, has been confirmed once again. This novelle, as we see it, is unfortunately a minimal solution which does not eliminate our fundamental concerns. Legal uncertainty persists. Fundamental rights are subordinated to military interests. Data protection is not respected, and personal control without giving reasons contradicts the principles of the rule of law. We are concerned with strong independent legal protection. It is a shaming arrangement to assign the officer to the ministry. Assured legal protection needs responsibility before Parliament. This is what we call for, and you should accept it. This repair does not, above all, eliminate the weaknesses of democracy, and therefore we will not approve of it either.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18863	I am speaking of a friend of the honourable Member's. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18881	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In 2001, the Military Power Act came into force after intensive preparatory work. From the Constitutional Court there were small cases that we want to change with today's novice of law. It is important to us, the government parties, that legal certainty is guaranteed for our citizens and therefore also for our military services. Minister Platter has shown clear guidelines for this, and this draft law is what we are going to do with it. First: In the future, arrests may only be made in the event of a justified suspicion of crime. Secondly, Arrested persons must be transferred immediately to the competent courts or administrative authorities. Thirdly, Legal protection will also be strengthened in the case of observation and hidden investigation. Prior to any such investigation, contact shall be made in advance of the Legal Protection Officer. This gives the fundamental right to respect for private and family life. I would like to stress that no one in Austria will be monitored arbitrarily or without any reasonable suspicion, but in case of need it must also be ensured that the interests of national security can be taken into account. It would be particularly important for the legal protection officer to be guided with this novel to be able to work properly and thus remain unbound. This would require a two-thirds majority. If SPÖ MP Gaál says it's a puke law, I'd like to contradict him very vehemently. The opposite is the case! I believe that only the zigzag course that the SPÖ is running in many areas will continue here. I would therefore ask you once again to consider your voting behaviour. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I mean, with this novel, a lot has been done for legal protection in the military field. The Military Power Act has been created in order to regulate the tasks and powers of the military institutions by law. It is a law that was necessary and that the Federal Government has solved well. As always, demands that have been exceeded by the opposition have been raised, which, as so often, pass by reality. I would like to add a few: The SPÖ calls for the three legal representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence to decide jointly on fundamental matters. – That goes beyond reality! The SPÖ also calls on the legal protection officer to provide all the information they require. That means that they can take a look at all the files. – This, ladies and gentlemen, would contradict the protection of sources, which is an important pillar in the activity of the services! I would like to point out once again that this novel takes account of the legal protection of our citizens and the military. This does not bring national security to bear. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is responsible policy. I therefore urge once again the opposition colleagues to agree to this legislative change.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18959	Mr Hagenhofer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e18978	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Why social democracy cannot go along with this decision has a very simple reason, which could still be cleared if you comply with what the Constitutional Court of Justice actually and rationally means. The Constitutional Court requires effective legal protection. There must be effective legal protection, and effective legal protection, Mr. Minister – nothing against you, we have no problems with you, but we do not know which ministers comply – is only given if the legal protection officer and his staff are set free of instructions. It makes no sense to make it clear to the Legal Protection Officer, but to report it to the Minister. The legal protection officer must be able to order his staff and to clarify in advance whether he agrees to the action or not. This legal certainty or this effective legal protection requires the Constitutional Court, and that is precisely the reason why the social democracy of this novel is unable to agree, because, in order not to drive again zigzag courses, this passage, as it is now set out in the government's proposal, obviously does not correspond again to the intentions of the Constitutional Court. Mr Minister, I have one more question to ask you. A law has been passed by all of us, according to which no cost should be incurred in the course of the installation of this legal protection officer. Now I read in the government paper that the Minister for Legal Protection for Legal Affairs of course has to provide for compensation costs. – So, please, what's the matter with such designs? On the one hand, there is a legal order to announce the financial costs of a law, on the other hand, it has been decided that no costs will be incurred, and on the other hand the costs have been addressed in the government template. I would like to point out that we do not agree with Social Democracy either because we do not want to take a zigzag course in democracy policy. [[Abg. School: The first time!]] Since 2003, the Constitutional Court has repealed numerous laws, such as the compulsory retirement of officials, the financing of health insurance funds, the exclusion of the administration of civil services, central elements of the Asylum Act, central elements of the Security Police Act and the Military Power Act. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What does this government think when the Minister says: Laws must fully comply with the Constitution!Unknown term type: "%s".? Six legislative acts have been repealed since 2003. – This does not, of course, correspond to the intentions of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19015	The next Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Long rider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19034	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is always good for colleagues to explain the reasons why the government is trying to comply with the Constitutional Court's requirements. One can discuss whether a small or a large part has now been removed from the Constitutional Court, the remaining concerns have at least been rejected by the Constitutional Court in the final consequence; on the one hand, for reasons of substance, because the complaint was content because of a separation between the military and the police in question, and on the other, I admit, Mr Gaál - for formal reasons. [[Abg. Gaál: No, no, for formal reasons!]] I think they haven't even been negotiated. It is true that the power to arrest the suspicion moment has been added and specified more closely. In the area of treatment of the arrested persons, the rapid transfer has been better determined and therefore also met the requirements of the Constitutional Court. Of course, respect for private and family life has also been improved in order to ensure effective legal protection. The freedom of guidance of the legal guardian regarding – and this is the interesting – there is a consensus across all parties, so now you have to explain to the public why you do not agree. One reason, Mrs. Stadlbauer – is she still there? – I can tell you that you are not involved: We want an independent and non-wisdom legal protection officer – you, on the other hand, want a legal protection officer, which you will use to instrumentalize party-politically. That's what you want, from which you want to draw party-political calculation! There is the Standing Subcommittee of the Parliament's State Defense Committee, there is the Data Protection Commission, there is the Federal Army Complaint Commission, there is the People's Procuratorate, there are many more. [[Abg. Dr. One: The Salt Office!]] This is the only way you want to go – but we don't want to go! We want a legal protection that is free of any direction and is also independent. There is an mistaken opinion: The Legal Protection Officer shall not control the Federal Minister. That would be new to me, but that's what the opposition is talking about. On the contrary! The Legal Protection Officer shall have other functions. In the last episode – I do not want to contradict Mr Pack, quite the contrary, he is right, I believe so – you also want to withdraw the protection of sources. If that is the case, there will certainly be a problem with security concerns. You can't go this way with us! Go with us by agreeing to the freedom of guidance of the Legal Protection Officer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19094	The next Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Darabos. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19112	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister! For a time, I thought that the discussion would be somewhat complacent in quality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] I have the right to judge what I want, Mr Scheuch, you will not take the right to speak. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] I won't let you take the right of speech. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have listened to me yourself, Mr Scheuch. They say: We're repairing the law, right? What does the opposition really want? Which means: We fix the law, eh!Unknown term type: "%s".? Could you decide to make laws, especially those of the ÖVP, in such a way that you do not have to go to the Constitutional Court, which, as it were, re-enact these laws in central points? [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Mr. Darabos! How long have you been in here?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Murauer, you say so salopp that these are small things. [[Abg. Murauer: Mr Darabos! How long have you been in here?]] That does not matter how long I have been working here now, Mr Murauer, I will not let you forbid my evaluations. [[Abg. Murauer: Then inquire!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I say quite openly: If you think it's Peanuts that there should be the execution of arrests without any concrete suspicion, then I must say: Please, don't be angry with me! The SPÖ has therefore challenged the law because, from our point of view, security police powers have been assigned to the Federal Government. That's exactly what has been lifted. In an ordinary rule of law there is the executive, the legislative and the judicial. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Thank you, Mr. Oberlehrer! Should we join us?]] This is important for us, and it is equally important that these security police powers be assigned to where they belong. I agree with Minister Platter that, as he said in contrast to other ministers of this government, he will take these points seriously and change them, which the Constitutional Court has revealed. Minister Strasser, who is also active in the security field, said: What is right doesn't necessarily have to be good! – This is an access to the constitutional state that is worrying. If we were to talk outside, maybe you'd admit that. You'd admit that too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm saying, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, We also need a legal protection officer to be legislative. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] However, you must be aware that the conditions we set, namely to guarantee freedom of guidance, are being taken seriously by us. I'm telling you quite honestly, too. If you look at the law – and this is a new aspect in the debate – you can see that there is a need to report to the Committee on a request that this legal protection officer, who is on his own instructions to the Minister in accordance with your proposal, should report on his own initiative. At the request of the Committee, it means that the liberals, together with the EIA, can reject this by a majority. We want three legal guardians, we want the clear legitimacy of Parliament. You should jump over your shadows here, then there is nothing in the way of a joint decision-making and a repair of the 2001 Push Law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19233	Mrs Stadlbauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19255	Mr Langreiter said that the SPÖ wanted to bind the legal protection officer politically. - That's wrong! I'm actually correcting: The SPÖ wants the legal protection officer to be required to report to the National Council and thus to strengthen control in Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19288	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19306	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of his speech, Mr Darabos assessed his own speech: He complained about the level in this discussion. But this is reserved for every Member to evaluate his own positions in advance. Ladies and gentlemen! I note with great regret that the Social Democratic Party, in particular today, has once again missed an opportunity to take on responsibility even in matters of national defence. You can feel it a little bit. If you observe colleagues Gaál or colleague Pepper at the speaker's desk, you feel like: Yes, I want to do it, but I can't do it! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Ladies and gentlemen, why don't you admit it? Why don't you admit that you are acting against better knowledge in the opposition role here? Just as you, in 1967 – and now I am, I am also admitting, have shaped a little of the events surrounding the federal election of personnel that will take place in 20 days – as a social-democratic movement against the Federal Staff Representatives Act and thus have voted against the legal basis of the public officials in the election of the representation of interests. [[Abg. Dr. One: “Scandal”!]] – Listen, I'll tell you something, maybe you'll be mentioned positively anyway! In all the years in which you have been in the government, you have made very weak employee representation policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now it's called watching! Three weeks ago, Mr Korecky – he is known to you – wrote to the electorate in the public service. In 1999, the FSG delegates assumed their responsibility for the workers socially and made a “reform chancellor” – under quotation marks – an Argentinean car seller. – This is the original text of a letter from your comrade Korecky to the public servants. I made the effort and had the names of those FSG delegates printed – no, so that you might have the bridge, so that you might be able to agree again again – which supposedly voted against the SPÖ, but also did not dare to admit it at that time. [[Abg. Gradwell: What does this have to do with the legal protection officer?]] [[Abg. Gaál: Mr. Col., your time has expired!]] So now take the opportunity, too, Toni, and agree, so that we can get the appropriate majority for the exemption, so that you don't have to complain again and say that you would have done it differently anyway. [[Abg. Gaál: Your time has expired!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19395	Mrs Schasching is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19413	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schöls, we are returning from the early days to the year 2000, when the Federal Government passed a military power law which the Constitutional Court of Justice did not hold. And that's what it's all about today. We have already had enough work on this matter today. As SPÖ, however, we are concerned here and today with finding that it is a matter of safeguarding fundamental rights. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we are very, very, very sensitive. Because it cannot be that a minister thinks it is not so dramatic if something is not recognised by the Constitutional Court as a right. I refer to Minister Strasser, who does not think this is so dramatic. I also refer to a head of state who does not take constitutional court decisions seriously. And I remember quite well that government-critical opposition politicians should be imprisoned. – Also the opinion of a minister of this Federal Government or the previous one. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are very, very sensitive when it comes to safeguarding fundamental rights and when the Constitutional Court has repealed a law which contained a pass that is really not in line with Austrian democracy, but with a banana republic, according to which there was the possibility of carrying out provisional arrests without any concrete suspicion of crime. Yes, venerationed. Ladies and gentlemen, we should have had to talk to us at the time and involve our proposals in concrete terms instead of passing over what was the case at that time, just as you still provoke it today. [[Abg. Amon: It calls our country a banana republic! That's unheard of!]] We should have had an objective debate with us. Today you would have tried – now it is a bit late. However, we are still ready to talk and have repeatedly explained our basic attitude to the Military Power Act and, above all, to the independence of the Legal Protection Officer. We want to strengthen Parliament, we want to strengthen parliamentary control – this is our concern – and above all we want to know fundamental rights. The fact that we know about receiving is, I think, particularly important in this government constellation. In this sense, we cannot agree to this proposal here and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19451	Next item is the report by Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19469	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Kummerer, I don't think anyone smiles so much when a supreme court lifts up a law or law. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: But the Straßer has already done this!]] On the contrary, we take this very seriously, and I believe that with this proposal today there is a proper correction of the Military Power Act. And it is really a great opportunity for the SPÖ to come to an orderly legal certainty and, of course, an orderly control. Mrs Colleague, I believe that if Parliament is to set up a legal protection officer and we are going to take this certainly reasonable and good path that the three Presidents and the Supreme Courts are defining a legal protection officer, there is a policy of the legal protection officer. I am also convinced, dear Toni, that you would very much like to agree with this law today, but once again party line is put before policy on matters. I think this is very, very sad, because I believe that security should be a priority for party policy and a priority for the policy of matters. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That would be like the ÖVP!]] I urge you once again to reconsider this, to vote in favour of an orderly legal certainty and thus to accept this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19519	The next item is the report by Mr Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19538	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Mr Kößl! I do not understand what is to be Party-political or even party-political if Parliament accepts the reports of the Legal Protection Officer. [[Abg. Dr. One: You can see that at the Court of Auditors!]] I do not know, perhaps you think, after you had to make a liberal president of the Court of Auditors the fact that the Court of Auditors is now party. I still believe that the Court of Auditors acts as Parliament's instrument of over-participation, and it should also be the legal protection officer. [[Abg. Scheibner: The President too!]] But Mr Kößl will not be able to take this away because he unfortunately does not listen. Mr Murauer, too, will not be able to take this away, because he has not listened either. [[Abg. Murauer: Maybe he repeats...!]] But maybe he did. Mr. Kourier read the “Kurier” on February 22, because Mr. Christoph Kotanko said: ‘Whoever wants to listen needs to feel’. And he then described the sustainability of the legislation of this Federal Government in such a way that the Constitutional Court no longer comes along with the work. Mr Murauer, if you were to put anyone else on record, he wouldn't want to understand it, because the ability to do so would allow me to return this compliment. You do not seem to want to understand that there are parliamentarians here who trust themselves without accepting and assessing the filter of the Federal Minister of Justice a report by the Legal Protection Officer, precisely in the Subcommittee, Mr Kößl. [[Abg. Kößl: To this we have the subcommittee!]] Apparently you don't even read your own templates, because there's inside: He, the Federal Minister, will return the report. We simply want the legal protection officer to return the report, without any obligation, with his employees. Mr Murauer, what do you think the Federal Minister has to hide that you must insert this safeguard clause? - I don't think he has anything to hide. The Legal Protection Officer could report to us, and we would have the courage to deal with it accordingly. Mr Amon, if I know who is being defended in this subcommittee, I am not worried about confidentiality and the protection of sources. This source protection has never been questioned by our site – now it suddenly gets you into the discussion. Do you have springs that you do not want to give up? It is only a question of hiding anything, it seems to me, otherwise you would have long been willing to exercise Parliament's control and agree to the legal protection officer within the meaning of the SPÖ proposal. Since Mr Scheuch had previously been so offended because Norbert Darabos only spoke to Mr Murauer, I am now speaking a little with Mr Bösch to make a balance. Mr Bösch, you have previously found that it would have been only a few things that the Constitutional Court has withdrawn here. – It has been mentioned several times, but I would like to stress it once again: These ‘littleties’, Mr Bösch, deal with matters such as the protection of fundamental rights and the protection of freedom, namely whether a person can be arrested, can be arrested with or without reason and how the further procedure goes. And if you speak to a republic in which a military body can arrest a passerby on the street without giving any reason and it is not quite clear... [[Abg. Großruck: The Swiss Guard does this too!]] – Are we in the Vatican, colleague Grossruck? Slowly, I don't know where we are anymore. In any case, I feel in the Austrian Parliament, colleague Großruck – I don't know where you are! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is precisely because we are in the Austrian Parliament and because we are proud of this Republic and want to continue to be proud of this Republic... [[Abg. Neugebauer: You just talked about the "Banana Republic"!]] We do not want to become a banana republic, Mr Neugebauer! You need to listen a little bit, not perceive selectively! Listen – understand – and then process! Or, like my colleague, Walch says: Read – think – talk! [[Call at the SPÖ: Where is the walch?]] Unfortunately, he's not here. That's why it didn't work now. Since we want to receive this Republic as a rule of law, my request: Dear colleague Murauer, take courage, give your heart a blow! Mr Bösch, be a little more masculine! Do you agree with the opposition's proposals? Is there any legal protection officer who deserves this name and where Parliament has control over it?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19657	The next speaker was Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19675	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If the Constitutional Court removes parts of a law and calls for a reorganisation and Parliament then fulfils this mandate and makes this new order in the law, then it is actually a normal rule of law. To compare this with a banana republic is definitely to be rejected from our point of view with all clarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Gradwelt, it is right that this debate did not require the abolition of the protection of sources, but allow me to say that we are You suspect here that you want this withdrawal. [[Abg. Gradwell: As the bad guy thinks, so is he!]] Our position on this is that it may not be the case that the source protection applies to journalists, but not military services. So I think you should at least accept this comparison. Everything else goes in the direction of a completely pacifist attitude which we do not share, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Federal Minister – and that is what I am saying as a convinced parliamentarian – is not at all a high level of appreciation. It is therefore a great concern to raise the legal protection officer to the constitutional rank, so that this freedom of guidance is expressly given. This freedom of guidance of the legal protection officer should be a particular concern for those who always have fundamental rights on their lips. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, I would like to invite you once again: Think about it! Let us give the legal protection officer the value to be attributed to him – and that would be the one in the constitutional rank that guarantees that he can act wisely! I would like to invite you once again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In conclusion, however, as we expect it to be used to social democracy, I would like to point out once again that in its not too constructive opposition position, unfortunately, it will not give it the consent, that the Federal Minister has several times declared that, even if there is this possibility, he has expressly given full support to the legal protection officer. There is no case that would have been to be read in public somewhere where a legal protection officer would have thought he would have received not all the information necessary to carry out his task. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy: I would ask you to have a little more confidence in our authorities to have a little more confidence in our executive bodies. These work very neatly, working very precisely according to the letters of the law. This mistrust you're trying to create here is by no means appropriate.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19740	I call Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19758	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! The law, the revision is sufficiently debated, the backgrounds are illuminating, the various views outlined. One question remains, of course, in the room – we have heard it now –: Don't you have confidence in the officials?- Oh, my God! – That’s not our problem! Trust in the officials is given. We have a problem with this government coalition, which takes every opportunity not to have to come to a green branch with the opposition in terms of national defence. I would like to point out here the approach at the Department of Defence, where we were very close to taking a decision together, which, in the end, has failed in terms of NATO, neutrality. [[Abg. Scheibner: No good example! You've been puddled back there!]] And if you know today that the ÖVP now sees the neutrality quite differently, you must not assume that we did not negotiate seriously enough there. With regard to this freedom of guidance: Of course we are for freedom of guidance – no question at all! – but for an actual freedom of guidance and not for a given person who is solely subject to a person who, according to good opinion, is occupied there or rescinded. – This, ladies and gentlemen, is a matter of serious concern, and that is why we cannot go along with it either. Mr Langreiter said quite clearly what he wanted. . We want to present the same, objectively only, at a democratic level, to Parliament for control. I should like to remind you once again: There is another proposal by the government or the EIA in this government coalition, which we think is right. Think about the statements to let the popular attorney – just one more – be elected by the National Council and the deputy of the Federal Council! – After that is relatively transparent, ladies and gentlemen! I would just ask you to tell us how you would see it if you were in opposition, if you would ask for it in the same way. Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists will always be on the side of the German army if we are given the opportunity to contribute to our part. Mr Federal Minister, I would also not like to thank you for the opportunity to bring us to the Federal Hero-Reform Commission. – That would be the right way to deal with such laws if one wanted to help the federal army together if one wanted to help the federal army to see more clearly how it is worth it. As social democrats, we have a very clear position on this: We are for the Austrian federal army, we are also in this military power law in itself for a non-wisdom law guard, but I repeat it again: This should be truly pointless and solely responsible to Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19795	Mr Dr Liechtenstein came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19813	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it's not easy for me to present the whole thing again. But one thing I have to say: Europe's defence strength must also be strengthened by neutral Austria. That is, we also need a strong, state-of-the-art army and the unity of our state, that we all share the same view that we are equally thinking in the question of defence. Especially in the novel, the concerns of the Constitutional Court were taken into account, as I could see myself. The things are widely debated. In conclusion, I can only say: I hope and may ask that everyone agrees to this draft, because in the area of national defence, we must stand together Austrians and Europeans. I should therefore like to ask that we perhaps consider making this happen today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19840	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Military Power Act, together with the title and receipt in 667 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – It is therefore also accepted by the majority at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft Constitutional Act, which enshrines the freedom of guidance of legal guardians, together with the title and receipt in 668 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. Paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure establishes the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – I note that this draft law has not been adopted with the required two-thirds majority, so that no law decision of the National Council within the meaning of § 82 para. Point 1 of the Rules of Procedure. 9. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (619 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Pension Act 1965, the Bundesbahn Pensions Act, the referee law and the Bundestheaterpensionsgesetz (656 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19911	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19935	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! This is a matter in which, by means of a novel, an approximation of the pension rights of officials to that of the ASVG or the survivors' pension scheme to which the ASVG is to take place. As we have expressed concerns in the ASVG at the time, our group will not agree to this amendment. There are three points that are against it. Firstly, the total income is not used for the comparison of the two incomes, but only for the income of labour. It is not clear that someone who has a million income from interest or from rent and lease will benefit from a pension, while that does not apply to someone who earns a little more from income than the partner who previously dies. This certainly does not guarantee the social justice that we place on the basis of such a law. Furthermore, only a two-year period before death is crucial for the calculation. There were negotiations to use the 12 best months, but unfortunately that did not prevail either. For this reason too, we reject this law. Another reason is that both unemployment insurance, health insurance and accident insurance are net in comparison calculation and, unfortunately, not with the basis of calculation, so that these different schemes mean a deterioration for the socially poor. For these reasons we reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19977	Mr Neugebauer has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e19996	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Wittmann! The entry note that this revision is an approximation of the references is not correct. It is about the method of calculating widow's and widow's pensions, which was abolished by the Constitutional Court's knowledge of June 2003. Secondly, I would like to say that the survivors' pension schemes have always been equally regulated in general social security law as well as in the public service pension law. Since this is to be maintained in the future, the current novella was necessary. Thirdly, I refer to the statement made by the Constitutional Court, which, interestingly, does not find suitable indicators for determining survivors' pensions when comparing the basis of assessment. The adjustment to the basis of assessment does not really reflect the supply situation of the survivors in a significant number of cases. Fourth, a major round of the ministries involved, the main social security body and the social partners was set up to prepare this scheme. This working group has produced a number of solutions, of which this variant is now to be implemented: By drawing on the last two calendar years before the time of death, the supply situation at the time of death should also be remodelled accordingly. There may be minor changes in an average view. In the vast majority of cases, the new rules on widowed or widowed pensions, which have so far been measured by 60 percent, will not change. I would ask you to agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e20042	Before the next speaker comes to the floor, please stop calling Mr Scheuch. Thank you. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e20063	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens have raised our concerns in the revision of the ASVG or the widow's pension scheme. I believe that the replication of the Bundesbahn-pensionen, inter-relationship pensions, too, The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions on the use of certain dangerous substances and preparations for use in foodstuffs (COM(87) 527 final) As long as you and we do not clarify this question, there will not be a satisfactory solution. I do not consider widow's pension right in this form to be a good, suitable and sustainable form. Mr Neugebauer! As you know, we have made proposals for an independent pension scheme. I think that this is much better and more meaningful for the future. Apart from that, I do not believe that the rules in place here on the decision-making process will change the way in which new injustices may be produced. That is why we are voting against it this time, as in the ASVG Novelation.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e20100	Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e20118	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! We cannot join the objections of Mr Oellinger and Mr Wittmann. However, I would rather join Mr Neugebauer's arguments. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We think it is useful and necessary to comply with the Constitutional Court's knowledge, and this is done with this proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e20162	Mr Pendl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e20180	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As one has already seen in the Committee that one does not really want to discuss content, but simply wants to make an adaptation to the ASVG, I do not think it will be useful to get into the subject matter here even now. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear officials from the parties of government! If you have done something bad and now you have something to do with a bad right, I leave the assessment of this to colleagues in the upcoming personnel representation elections, dear Alfred Schöls! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. School: That's it!]] Dear friend! A few minutes ago, you took the PV elections into your mouth, and it was already carried out by Mr Niederwieser this morning, as you are dealing with colleagues. Greatly speaking of new training models. But now she sends over a BDG novelle, and in this she writes ex-legislate that “all that doesn’t have a university degree is not transferred to A. Do you think that's not what my colleagues think? Where is the carrier rocket from a salary statement? - Nothing to see, nothing to hear. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Fredi, you know, it doesn't do anything, but for everyone who doesn't know: You know, you all know why the SPÖ voted against the decision in 1967? You want me to say it? [[Abg. School: Because you have always been against something reasonable!]] – Because the service supervision has controlled the staff representative bodies! That was the reason. That was your democratic political access back then, friends, and only the Kreisky government has changed that. - Just so we know what we're talking about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we are not going to vote by the Social Democrats in the interests of the colleagueship of this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e20242	Mr Brader. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e20260	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Collegue, in order to cut off our group in terms of staff representation elections Don't worry about it. People already know who represents their interests. I believe that even with this novel, it is clear that there are no distortions and injustices here, but on the contrary: The new method of taking account of the last two years actually improves. I think that the two-year period of comparison, which has been so defined in the Ministry of Social Affairs and is a compromise, is also optimal. Ladies and gentlemen! This novel and the planned changes in the method of calculation for widows and widowers' pensions have resulted in a necessary legislative repair. I mean, it's an improvement, and I'm asking you to give this law the consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e20291	Mrs Grander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e20309	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My children's office was also the works council; I was the works council president. So it's not just a legitimation of your side, but also we come out of this – let's say it – "Stall". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The incompatibility of the basis of calculation in the public service's widows' and widows' rights with that of the widows' and widows' pension rights of general social security, as of 1. In July 2004, this amendment is already in force. This is a constitutional adjustment. The new regulation leads to greater justice, since not the basis of assessment, but the actual income of the last two years is used for the calculation of widow's or widow's pension. Affected by the adaptation are the Pension Act, the Bundesbahn-Pensionsgesetz, the Relevant Act and the Bundestheaterpensionsgesetz. I'm not going to do a few things anymore, because that's what my previous speakers have already said. New is the consideration of any income from self-employed or self-employed employment rather than the basis of assessment which has so far been significant. as well as pensions on the basis of foreign insurance and care systems. Otherwise, the concept of income corresponds to the current practice. In the vast majority of cases, the new regulation will have no effect on the percentage of widowed and widowed consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e20360	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 619 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – It is also the majority. The law is therefore also adopted at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-09-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00082_d7e20407	I am still saying that questions 2248/J to 2281/J have been raised at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 10. November 2004, 9 a.m. with the following agenda: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (650 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act 2005 and Investments (670 of the Supplements). Consultation Group I: Top Institutions, Advisory Group II: Federal Chancellery including general debate, Advisory Group X: Transport, innovation and technology, Advisory Group V: Justice. There is no Question Time at this part-session. Today's sitting is closed.
