ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1220	I'll open the 64. Meeting of the National Council on the basis of a sufficiently supported request pursuant to § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure have been called up, and welcome all of you very warmly. The official protocols of 61. Meeting of 26. ==References====External links== He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: In May 2004, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. The Csörgits, Mag. Johann Maier, Vergestnich, Dolinschek and Walch. The Federal Chancellor announced his intention to make a statement on “Austria in Europe – The Future Topics”. There is a request by five Members to refer to this declaration in accordance with § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a debate immediately. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1264	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question tabled at the beginning of the meeting 1849/J by Dr Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on clarity on the positioning of the Austrian Federal Government on European democracy and constitution. The urgent question will be carried out at the earliest three hours after their submission, i.e. at 2 p.m., after the debate on the Federal Chancellor's declaration. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1288	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1425	We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1444	In the Presidential Conference, the following speech time agreement was reached for the debate on the Federal Chancellor's declaration, and I inform the ladies and gentlemen that our deliberations from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. are gratefully transmitted live by the ORF. The ORF shall forward the meeting between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. I will therefore interrupt the sitting at 1 p.m. for 15 minutes. An agreement was reached on the following time-limits for the debate on the Federal Chancellor's declaration. Mr Bundeskanzler will present his statement for 20 minutes, then one speech per group per 15 minutes each, then one word by one member of the government, in this case Federal Minister Herbert Haupt, at 15 minutes, then one word per group per 6 minutes, and one word per group at 5 minutes each, and one word per group at 4 minutes each. The remaining speaking time until 14 The President-in-Office of the Council shall, after consultation with all the club presidents, be distributed to the four political groups in such a way that all political groups can still speak. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. I also assume that actual corrections are handled in such a way that the speaking time agreement does not weaken. Declaration by the Federal Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the Intergovernmental Conference
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1483	We arrive at the declaration of the Federal Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 GOG on “Austria in Europe – The Future Topics”. Following this declaration, a debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. Mr Bundeskanzler, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1510	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the last legislative period of the European Parliament, three very central projects, which are of great importance to Europe, have been undertaken and, in part, successfully implemented. The first was the introduction of the euro, the common European currency, with great success. We have a very favourable situation in the currency economies. It is only once that we have to figure out what it would mean in view of oil price increases that we would not have such a successful introduction of the euro behind us. EU enlargement by ten new Member States was achieved by 1. It was successfully implemented in May and two years of work on the European Constitution. Although it has not been finally completed, there is a Convention text which has been improved in some important respects by the Intergovernmental Conference. We very much hope that in about 14 days we will have a joint decision on this new European Constitution. In this way, the European Parliament will be a fully developed Parliament with consent. Many citizens are not aware of the importance of this Parliament: The budget will be decided there, i.e. how much money is available for rural areas, for agriculture, for research, for student exchange programmes, for foreign policy, for administration, for development cooperation. All of this is ultimately decided by the European Parliament. Today, 100 percent of agricultural policy is made in Brussels and Strasbourg, half of all relevant environmental or transport standards and 80 percent of economic policy, such as monetary policy, interest rate policy, money, monetary relations. All these essential questions will be decided at European level today. Therefore, it is not indifferent who, after the 13th century, is not indifferent. In June Austria represents the 18 delegates there who have the sage and give a strong vote for Austria within the framework of a very large parliament with 732 MEPs. Of course, one can only move little – that is probably clear to everyone – but it is crucial to create good networks in cooperation with the various political groups and with like-minded Members to move something, to sharpen the eye, as some points have done very well. The European Union is, of course, different now. It covers almost 500 million people, i.e. 470 million individual ideas, desires, concerns, dreams, fears, ideas that each individual combines with his idea of a European Union. The task of politics is to sum up this in a package, in solutions, in answers, so that it reflects as many of these ideas as possible. I believe that we Austrians have been able to take a very positive, self-confident assessment over the last ten years – almost the very day we have decided on this European Union in the context of a two-thirds majority referendum. Membership has brought Austria forward, and we have been able to say very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria has improved its competitiveness. Today we are in all rankings in place 13 in the world. We have worked very forward within the European Union. We're already under the top five, we want to get to the top three. We have a stable price situation with low inflation. Wages and salaries have increased by €20 billion since Austria's accession to the European Union. Exports have just exploded thanks to membership and the opening of markets. They have doubled, even quadrupled to Central Europe. Austria has become a highly attractive investment location through this membership. In the period before Austria's membership, we have had a third of the foreign investment we now have. That is to say, the investors have invested three times as much each year since the accession. I think you can be proud of that. This is a result of a large cross-party consensus. Austria has taken very good advantage of its opportunities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, this is about the future. Which topics are now important and significant? – First of all, the preservation of peace must be mentioned. ==References====External links== June, to 60. Let the landing of the Allies in the Normandy, that is, the D-Day on which the Allies landed to free Europe from the horrors of National Socialism. It may be doing quite well in these days when many Heads of State and Government meet to commemorate these days, even when one recalls what happened back then. On a single day, on that 6. June, 20,000 young men are bleeding, on the allied side, on the German side! From the horror of these days – only the Normandy campaign has claimed 130,000 dead in the first 30 days; in total, the Second World War in Europe claimed around 25 million dead – the vision of Europe, a peaceful, strong, united continent, was actually created. That is why it is important for the European Union to prove itself to be a force of peace. This “Never again war!” or the hint that Helmut Kohl spoke of a few days ago in Vienna, that when he passes from his native Rhineland to France, he sees many military cemeteries on which people are buried, where in the three slaughters of the people 1870, 1914 and 1940 million Germans and French people had to let their lives live, is actually the basis: The value foundation “Never again war!” prefers to fight at the conference table, preferring to take defeats there and there with a national special interest rather than ever having a situation in which the peoples of Europe raise up arms against one another! That's crucial! [[General condolences.]] That is why, as I believe, it is also so important to support these future steps in relation to the European Constitution. These may be first, sometimes perhaps a little clumsy steps, but: A European Foreign Minister, jointly commissioned by the nations and by the EU Commission, may also be mandated as Vice-President to implement Community law, would be a real step in the role of Europe as a global player, a global player committed to peace, human rights and a reasonable foreign policy. In this context, it is also worth mentioning the construction of a European security force, a peace force that, as it were, can use 60,000 voluntary, professional soldiers at the push of a button to give peace a chance, such as in the Balkans – or in other crisis zones. In any event, it is important that we now give the start in the European Constitution for such a development. Of course, this includes solidarity and assistance for each other. There are, as I am saying, clever formulations in the drafts, so that all countries – even countries not bound to an alliance – can be involved. This first central element of peace in Europe is what is to be said loud and clear, even now, in the days before the elections to the European Parliament. The second thing that moves people is clearly the employment situation: Growth, jobs, income situation, prosperity. Of course, the European Union can do much more than before together for growth, jobs and job opportunities. For example, we expect the High Level Task Force Employment report, a Wim Kok report, to make very concrete proposals in autumn. There are also the European social partners involved, and there will hopefully come those practical ideas that bring us forward. The European Central Bank is also called upon to decide quickly, quickly and courageously. And I think that we Austrians did not always claim ourselves quite well in this very simple environment. In any case, the International Monetary Fund gives us an excellent witness and says that the reforms in Austria can be regarded as a model for the reforms in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With effort – yes, I give it to you – we were able to achieve that today we can say with joy: In 2003, Austria's economic growth was almost twice as high as in the EU average, unemployment was half as high, and the budget deficit in Austria was only one third of the total in the European Union. The third and most important issue is security. A very big step forward could be taken in Tampere, under the Finnish Presidency. However, I believe that we must continue to do so now. And especially before elections to the European Parliament, we should focus on security for our citizens; two thirds of people expect it from us. That is why I believe that topics that may not yet be consistent everywhere should be clearly proposed by us Austrians. For example: We need a Europe-police; we need a European border guard police. We need search warrants who can really hunt organized criminal gangs, terrorists, or even human smugglers across borders. Further: We need a European prosecutor who can really clarify those offences that need to be regulated and persecuted in Europe; EUROJUST is too little for me personally. In the longer term – not today, but just in the long term – we need a European criminal code, which really regulates such offences together. We also need a common and strong EU counter-terrorism coordinator. Why these issues are so important, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you a few examples. If a terrorist or a criminal flees across borders today, he cannot be persecuted at European level precisely because of today's legal situation! Only the national police organizations can do this! In Switzerland, even canton to canton is not that easy, but we want to do better in the EU. That is why, I believe, we do not need bilateral agreements alone, but we need European rules of play: a warrant, European follow-up, European arrest methods, and the best search methods. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that some of you were sometimes skeptical of Eurodac when we asked for fingerprints on asylum applications or proposed biometric identification data for passports and so on. But already today, a year after Eurodac's in-force paces, we see the positive effects. For example, in the first year per month, we have had about 30 so-called hits that asylum seekers who have sought us have shown that they have already applied for asylum in two or three other European countries. That doesn't make any sense! Now, after the accession of the ten new EU countries, we are already at 170 hits per month! This means that Eurodac really begins to prove itself: The number of asylum applications in Austria has been reduced by 60 percent only by enlargement and by these common methods! The number of illegal border crossings has decreased by 75 percent, ladies and gentlemen! This shows that there's a lot more security in there if you just do it right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In my opinion, the cooperation of the police organisations is also very important. I should like to give you a few, but very interesting examples. On Pentecost Monday or Pentecost Tuesday, there was a massive campaign in Bulgaria; Hundreds of Bulgarian security officers were employed for this purpose. EUROPOL has made the analysis and preparation for it, has also monitored and accompanied the entire action, the American Secret Service has also participated in it – and the result has been dozens of arrests. Thousands, perfectly fake visa applications for Europe and for Canada, could be ensured in this action. Hundreds of thousands of counterfeit euro banknotes – very well counterfeit banknotes – could be confiscated. And that's just an example! In Austria, for example, we have some equally good examples to show in cooperation with neighbouring countries: For example, some months ago, Austria and the Czech Republic were able to arrest 42 people who dragged thousands of people to Austria. In October last year there was a similar action with Hungary, where 27 suspects, including some corrupt border officials, were arrested, with those suspects being illegally dragged 10 000 Kosovo Albanians to Austria. And in February, together with Slovakia, we were able to arrest 19 tractors who brought hundreds of Chinese illegally to Austria. I am telling you this now because these are concrete successes – and in addition, ladies and gentlemen, we need your support: not only here in Austria. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That's why I'm looking for you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The third major issue, of course, is the European Constitution, and I believe that we have a good chance, because after some start-ups – in December it didn't go the same way – it is that we now have the opportunity to move a lot, so that we can finish it in Brussels. The EU foreign ministers have a total of three meetings; two in the past and one in advance. We also have a few technical experts in mind – and then hopefully the whole will be able to be completed. What are the most important achievements, partly due to really important and committed Austrian negotiation? I am not at all in favour of mentioning our Austrian EU Convention members Hannes Farnleitner, Caspar One or the EU Member Bösch and Voggenhuber, but they have done their first-class work in this area, for which I would like to express my express thanks to them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Many suggestions for the European Constitution also come from the Austrians, such as the inclusion of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Constitution. It assures every European citizen of the classic rights of freedom, but also of political participation, social and cultural rights, which must be respected in the process of legislating and implementing European law. There will be simplified procedures and, above all, individual legal protection for the first time. By the way, we discussed this for the first time in Hofburg, when we met – all the social partners, political parties and civil society – and discussed the Austrian model of individual justice to the European Court of Justice. In the future, any natural or legal person will be able to bring an action against acts of a legal nature directly before the ECJ if it is directly affected by this act and the acts will no longer be subject to further implementing measures. The creation of a single legal personality is very important; the resolution of the existing pillar structure; a single constitutional text. Europe will thus be able to be perceived on the international stage as a single independent subject of international law. A clearer division of responsibilities – above all a concern of the federalist organized countries Austria, Germany, Belgium; exclusive and shared competences and coordination measures. The principle of limited individual authorisation is expressly enshrined and defined in the Treaty. An improved application and control of the principle of subsidiarity; the possibility of bringing an action for one third of the national parliaments and chambers. Similarly, the Committee of the Regions can ultimately call upon the ECJ to respect the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. Strengthening national parliaments. Respect for national identity is explicitly enshrined in the European Constitution. The Union must not intervene in the structures of the Member States if the status of regional and local self-government is affected. For the first time, the equality of Member States is explicitly anchored. The provisions of the Convention on general care, transport, waste disposal, health care, water networks were adopted in the Intergovernmental Conference in accordance with a proposal from the Austrian Foreign Minister in so far improved when the respect of local self-government as part of the identity of the Member States has been inserted and it is clarified that European laws on the principles of these services do not affect the competence of States providing, commissioning or financing these services. For the sake of the superfluousness, if I say so, I would add that it was the concern and success of Austria that the management of water resources, spatial planning and land use, especially Austrian pressure, should remain unanimous. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As the speaking time is limited and pushes, only in keywords: Very important: The Union's social policy is up-to-date in the Constitution. The objectives of the Constitution now include employment, full employment, the social market economy and new – not included in the draft convention – price stability. Social exclusion and discrimination are being combated. Social justice and social protection are promoted. Dialogue with civil society: A separate constitutional article acknowledges the role of the social partners. The horizontal social policy is re-introduced into the Treaty, which aims to review each act on these social implications. The role of the European Commission in economic policy is strengthened. I have already mentioned the solidarity clause. The possibility of a common defence is set out in Article 17. There is the possibility of permanent structured cooperation, but in a transparent, open manner open to Member States at all times, which has been very important to us personally. Three important institutional issues remain open until the end. First of all, the desire of small states for a better representation in the European Parliament. I don't think that's really controversial anymore. The second point is the transition to a qualified majority. We'd be braver. In social policy, in tax policy, but also in CFSP, foreign policy, we would be for majority voting, not others. That is not going to happen. We have been very committed to ensuring parity with the qualified double majority, population and nations. There is still no proposal from the Irish Presidency. I think a proposal will come about next week. The full parity, I hear, will not be proposed by the Irish, it probably goes towards 55, 65. As far as the Commission is concerned, it is as follows: If there is no agreement in the Constitutional Treaty, Nice shall apply. This means a significantly reduced Commission starting in 2009. This is likely to be the case from 2007 onwards when Romania and Bulgaria are added. The Convention has made an unreasonable proposal with two classes of Commissioners: with and without voting rights. I think that this proposal will not be acceptable. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] The time is running – I naturally adhere to the limit on speaking time as much as anyone else. I know that a urgent question will be dealt with anyway. That's why I'm taking up a lot of things. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1805	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. We are going into the debate on the statement. The speaking time is known. First word message: Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer. 15 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e1847	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's right. Europe has achieved a great deal. And the most important thing that Europe has achieved is that not only in the last decades in the field of the European Union there have been no more war conflicts, no, much more: It is absolutely unimaginable today that Member States of the European Union are involved in war-related acts. This is the greatest historical result of European unification, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] I believe that all of us are aware that “once reached” does not mean that this must remain the case for all times, and that we must work permanently on the conditions for peace and security in Europe. In this context, the enlargement of the European Union is due to take place on 1 January. May 2004 has certainly been a historic quantum leap because it will integrate ten more states into the area of security and stability. This will make the European Union not only bigger, but also safer, and peace will be better secured in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is also indisputable that there has been progress on many issues of cooperation and integration at European level and that the way from the free trade area to a customs union and then to economic and monetary union has been very important steps that have an impact on the economy and on employment on our continent. But I do not think we should overlook what has been the blind spots of the policy of the European Union in recent years. If we are right to note that there has been an economic rise in Europe over the last decades, then, at the same time, I believe, we do not have to realize that very ambitious goals, such as reducing the gap between Europe and the United States, have unfortunately been achieved. We must also note that many people, even if there is employment in Europe, are still unemployed and very many people are afraid of their jobs. We must also note that modern economic development and the way in which the European Union has dealt with it have also led to increased social tensions not only in Europe but also in all the Member States. Mr Bundeskanzler, I believe that this is crucial because it is about taking as many people as possible on the European road, and it is not without a very strong social component in Europe. And here a change is required. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I already believe that in recent years, price stability and budget targets have been in the foreground – all very important goals – that the employment target has sometimes been sacrificed. I already expect a stronger commitment when it comes to employment and the opportunities of people in Europe. They have recently said on the subject of youth unemployment: The situation will not really change until 2012. – What does that mean? Let's imagine: You say to a 15-year-old today: Be patient for eight years, the situation will improve in 2012! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true! Who says that?]] That is, the 15-year-old today is comforted by the fact that when he is 23 years old, the situation will be a better one. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These are not the opportunities and prospects that today's youth is expecting! We must give hope and not comfort the young people to the year 2012. That would be necessary in this situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that we must also deal with a phenomenon which, although improved by the Constitution, is ultimately not clarified: that many people still have the impression that European policy is very far away from them. There are very complicated procedures there, all of which have their rights in detail, but result in many people not being able to understand where what is decided. Yes, that even leads to political actors not always knowing exactly what is happening. If, for example, you, Mr Bundeskanzler, are going to run the European Arrest Warrant today: That is what we have already decided. If you are calling on the European Public Prosecutor today, I can tell you that we have called for this in the Austrian Parliament, but unfortunately the government parties have not met with open ears. [[Abg. May. Worm: Rejected!]] I am pleased if you today decide to support the opposition's call for a European prosecutor. We'd really move on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It's about it, even if you're 13 years old. In June, the following questions were addressed: What is the future direction that Europe is taking? It goes on as before, and the blind spots are not worked up, or it comes to the 13th. In June, on the basis of a direction decision, where Europe decides to act more strongly in the future, where the biggest deficits exist today? I therefore believe that it is very essential to give people the feeling that they can take part in the decision on the great direction in which Europe is to go: either to continue to be blind to rising unemployment and to make the associated non-opportunity or to make a decision for a Europe which, in the first place in its agenda, sets the fight against unemployment, more opportunities for youth and a social Europe. And that is what many, ladies and gentlemen, wish! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you have rightly pointed out that the European Parliament is of great importance and will be of even greater importance in the future. I don't think there's a need to put the light under the casket here: If you read international newspapers, you will find that the Austrian MEPs in the European Parliament are sometimes making an extremely good figure. Moreover, the work of individual members of the European Union is also very positive in Austrian newspapers, across the borders of the political groups. If the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” considers that MEPs Bösch, Voggenhuber, Karas and Swoboda are doing excellent work in the European Parliament, I am proud as an Austrian that not only members of my group, but also members of other political groups in the European Parliament are doing a generally recognised political work, which I believe is absolutely tangible. [[We welcome the SPÖ as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! This applies not only to me in the five years between elections, but also to me in the weeks before an election debate. In this connection, I find it somewhat depressing if, despite the good performance of the Members, a campaign is staged just weeks before the election against a generally accepted Member, namely against Mr Swoboda. They believe that his behaviour is really outrageous, and the colleagues of the Freedom Party have taken a deeper look at the drawer, which has led the most recognized Austrian European politician, Commissioner Fischler, to take the floor in this election debate and to say that he finds the attacks against Hannes Swoboda immense and under every criticism. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] I tell you, Federal Chancellor, it would be much better for the political climate and for the relationship between the Austrian population and the European Union if you were to orient yourself in a political style on the example of Franz Fischler and not on the Jörg Haider. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In fact, the questions that lie ahead of us and before the people are very, very serious, and I do not think it is good to try to reduce the level of debate in a kind of panic reaction just days before the election. I don't think you need that, because I'm telling you quite frankly: Her speech today has had a good level, offering an invitation to an argument that can be conducted fairly, which differs from the political style of the ÖVP in recent weeks. [[Abg. Grandruck: Go, stop! Really?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The SPÖ!]] I'll tell you: Stay as you are today, and do not do it as Mr Lopatka tells you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have spoken about the success and success of us as an Austrian in Brussels, and the Members have mentioned that those who have been active in the EU Convention and have done good work, I would say yes, we are continuing to draw the balance sheet. You are responsible for a federal government, you are responsible for ministers who, of course, are of great importance in the European Union, because there are still significant decisions in the Council of Ministers. How can you, as Federal Chancellor, allow the presence of Austrian ministers in Brussels to be one of the least of all member states? I don't understand. How can Austria be heard if your colleagues in the government do not go to meetings in the majority of the time? How are Austrian interests to be introduced and enforced? Mr Bundeskanzler, make sure that your members of your government do their job and do not weaken Brussels constantly, because only then will we be able to enforce Austrian interests there too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In fact, we are at a crossroads in Europe, in which direction the new, enlarged Europe will go: Will it be a Europe where people feel that they are being crossed, where the distance to decision-making centres is growing – or will it become a Europe where the common sense of this new security community is actually lived? I think I'm venerationful Ladies and gentlemen, as Austrians in the centre of this continent, not only can we give European content a boost towards a new social policy for Europe, but we can also demonstrate that the political style of the debate is a professional, a fairer and more objective one. I would like to ask you all to use the remaining nine days until the EU election to put content in the foreground to devote themselves to the interests and concerns of the Austrian population and to set up dirty bubbling campaigns. You don't do anything good yourself, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] To provide you with an empirical proof: There has also been attempts in the very fair election debate about the office of the Austrian Federal President – less than now – to take action against Heinz Fischer at the same level. They have seen exactly how the Austrian population has responded: She has not been impressed by these attempts and has chosen the one she considers to be the best. Let that be a lesson!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2011	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. His speaking time is also 15 minutes. – Mr Klubobmann, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2065	Federal Chancellor! Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! I particularly welcome the fact that today, a few days before a decisive election, namely the election to the European Parliament, we have the opportunity here in the Austrian National Council to discuss the European future issues on the basis of a statement by our Federal Chancellor Dr Wolfgang Schüssel, and then, in the context of a debate on a urgent question, to particularly deepen the subject of the European Constitution. That's good, that's right! We as the People's Party will of course be happy to take this opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House, but especially at home on TV screens! If you want more democracy in Europe, if you want to strengthen the European Parliament in Europe, and if you want Austria to represent its interests strongly in this Europe, you will have 13th anniversary. In June, the opportunity to ensure, with its voice, that the European Parliament is strengthened, that democracy is strengthened and that Austrian interests in this European Parliament are strongly represented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If there is a public debate about this role of the European Parliament, it is good and right. I think we should make the public even more aware of the tasks of this European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Parliament, for example, decides on the budget of the European Union. The European Parliament will decide what investment there is, for example, in infrastructure, border regions, in research and development, in rural areas, in agriculture. However, the European Parliament also decides on a very important issue, namely the enlargement of the European Union. We know that this issue is one of the most sensitive. I am convinced – like the great majority of Austrians – that Europe needs a break and a deepening phase before further enlargements can be discussed at all. This must also be clearly expressed in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The European Parliament decides, ladies and gentlemen – and I know what I am talking about, because I have held responsibility for this for a long time – for example, for a large part of environmental legislation, environmental standards and environmental standards in this Europe. The European Parliament is therefore – and can and should become much stronger – the ecological conscience on this continent – in the interests of people and the future! Or: The European Parliament shall decide on the rules on how the economy takes place, on the rules of competition. It is crucial whether the European Parliament will help the economic house mind to break through or apply the level of bureaucracy and regulation. – These are the decision-making questions for this European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think we have the task – we political leaders here in Austria – to make this role of the European Parliament even more aware. By what? I believe that we are strengthening the European Parliament itself. The European Constitution offers the great opportunity – and it will become a reality – that the European Parliament as a hort of democratically elected Members has a stronger role to play. But that alone is not enough for me! I think that the strength of the European Parliament is reflected in how many people participate in the election to the European Parliament. We should therefore have a cross-party goal, ladies and gentlemen – as well as the social partners – that voting participation is a common concern for us. Electoral participation means strengthening democracy, strengthening Parliament and thus strengthening the co-determination of our home country Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course – and, Mr Gusenbauer, I would like to say this – is clear: In the election to the European Parliament, different approaches are at the test stage. It is also necessary and good to work out these differences. For the Austrian People's Party as the European Party – the European Party of this country! – which, from the very first minute of pro-European policy, has been designed in the interests of Europe and Austria, focuses primarily on the legitimate concerns and concerns of the people. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens]] We must not go beyond these. If we want to make Europe experienceable, we must respond to the concerns of the citizens, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This Europe is primarily a Europe of peace and values for the Austrian People's Party – and here in Austria, I mean, a cross-party consensus. But that doesn't mean we can just sit down and say: Europe is a peace project, but we must do something for it. I think, for example, that the clear commitment to a stronger role of Europe in the world, a stronger commitment to more European rights in the common foreign and security field, is an answer to the deep desire for peace among people. If we say 'peace', then we must also say'more Europe' in the area of peace and foreign policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, this Europe is a safety project for the Austrian People's Party. – Especially in these days, we feel that there is a great need for security in people. At this point I say quite openly and clearly: The People's Party in Austria and the European People's Party in the European Parliament are committed without compromise to the instruments for making this security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It cannot be the soft line when it comes to organized crime when it comes to drug dealers when it comes to trafficking in human beings when it comes to child abuse. – Therefore, compromiseless for security must be our answer! For the Austrian People's Party, thirdly, this Europe is a growth engine that needs to become even stronger in order to achieve the goal of full employment. Mr Gusenbauer! Not the goals distinguish us, but the ways! For example, if you say that there is a contradiction between stability and employment, I do not think you recognize the economic realities! We need stability and growth to have full employment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Therefore, this growth initiative in Europe is of such central importance. Ladies and gentlemen! Fourthly, we need – and this is our goal – a Europe of stability! – On this point, we differ from each other. Yes, we say uncompromisingly: The Stability Pact must be respected! Then: We do not want a Europe where new debts are made! We do not want a Europe where taxpayers make unlimited contributions! We want a Europe where the euro is stable and we want a Europe where the budgets are in order! That is why we are against evading the Stability Pacts! That would be absolutely wrong economically. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like us to discuss openly where we need less Europe. – In the case of peace, security, growth, employment and stability, we need more Europe! – But we want less Europe where regional areas are concerned. We want less Europe where bureaucracy is concerned, we are for debureaucratisation. We want less Europe when it comes to centralism. We want to do the opposite: strengthen the regions, increase our opportunities, increase our scope. That is to say, more Europe, where it makes sense, and less Europe, where it is positive for people, for employment, for prosperity and for the corresponding freedom in economic development! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Because this Europe will also be determined by the election debate in the next days and weeks – actually only more – it is only legitimate that we also deal with the competitors. In this context, I would like to say quite frankly to you: As a representative of the Austrian People's Party, I am not allowed to prevent political competitors from evaluating the elections accordingly! [[Abg. Oils: “Bewerve ”!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Everyone does that, it's part of the democratic debate. That's what I'm telling you: We believe that a left-wing Europe will lead to the strengthening of centralism – and not subsidiarity! We believe that a left-wing Europe will lead to more bureaucracy – and not to deregulation! We believe that a left-wing Europe is more a risk to security than a security! We believe that a left-wing Europe is a risk to stability – and not stability! We believe that a left-wing Europe tends to make debt rather than budgetary stability and budgetary discipline. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, Mr Gusenbauer, this debate on the political concepts that are necessary in democracy can not only be led in the future perspective, but must also be held against the background of what responsibility parties have. [[Abg. Ollinger: Are you a judge?]] So I say quite openly to you: The Austrian People's Party has made a very clear statement against an investigative committee on the issue of sanctions! [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] The Austrian People's Party has strongly opposed the fact that a member of the European Parliament is being called into question or should be denied the right to vote. This will not happen to us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oils: But there were different sounds in the beginning!]] But the question of sanctions, Mr Gusenbauer, is of course also the subject of this debate, and I have told you last time: The bad conscience is written to you on this question! [[Abg. Reheis: This is your bad conscience!]] The SPÖ is at least responsible for these sanctions. Your former top candidate Hans-Peter Martin, the SPÖ's top candidate for the last European election, clearly confirms this by saying – and you yourself have read it too; I repeat it only once again and quote it: “The behaviour of SPÖ was unacceptable. Viktor Klima has reported to me on the phone and left no doubt that he was fully involved in the preparation of sanctions. To me, he meant to conjure up: “You won’t say anything about it.” – Citing. [[Call the ÖVP:Hear! Listen!]] That is simply the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and in this case the truth is not only reasonable to people, but it is necessary so that they can also evaluate the roles of the individual parties accordingly, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: And shouldn't we examine that?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Gusenbauer, I am quite sure that I will also pick up the ball that is now playing a role in the public debate, namely the issue of 'election' and 'election'. I must give you one thing in this context, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, but also the public: For example, if you bring the topic of water into your constituency as one of the main motives, I would like to draw your attention to the following: This was one of the main topics of the EU's opponents in 1994! For example, if you say in your election debate that you are against a group Europe, I tell you: This was the main argument of EU opponents in 1994! I have nothing against a Voest group, where 23 000 people are employed, against a Magna group, where 11 000 people are employed, against a BMW group, where 3,000 people are employed in Austria. I could continue this list. [[Abg. Silhavy: They're all sold!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They come with the argument of neoliberalism, with exactly the argument that the opponents of Europe presented in 1994! Getting Now You may say that there was a certain degree of emotionality. – Yes, there is also in the election debate. I'll tell you: There is a danger that the SPÖ’s “harvestment” will proceed. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I mean Erich Haider from Upper Austria, who has just brought these electoral styles into the political debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer, however, I do not go so far as to say that this concept lacks the shield noise. I hope you don't go that far! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to ask people in this country to take this choice to the European Parliament as seriously as it is to be taken seriously. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] That's a turnout! We want Austria to be strongly represented! With Ursula Stenzel we have the most profiled candidate and a successful team. [[Abg. Brosz: You should talk about the EU Constitution!]] Every voice for the Austrian People's Party is a strong voice for Austria in a strong Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2393	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. – Mr Commissioner, you also have 15 minutes of speaking time. [[Abg. Scheibner: I would like to speak, Mr President, but I am not yet ready.]] That's from the old clothes collection. Mr Van der Bellen is the next speaker. [[Abg. Großruck: Maybe the Van der Bellen is a pro-redner!]] 15 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2435	Thank you, Mr President. I was a little confused now, too, because I also thought that Mr Scheibner is from the FPÖ, but you are certainly right, because the President is always right. [[President Dr. Khol shakes his head.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Apart from the last minutes of Klubobmann Molterer's presentation, it's all right: One can discuss Europe's policy! [[Abg. May. Molterer: The last minutes also belong to this!]] Of course, we will not agree on many points, but at last we have a European debate at this special meeting, which was requested by the Greens and called for today, and a European political debate – and not a sense of insanity about letter books and so on. I think that's great! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Thank you at the bowl!]] I would like to thank the colleagues who have spoken so far, including the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who has opened this debate, for what has been done. I think that we should continue and deepen in relation to the questions: What do we want? What do we expect from Europe? What are our ideas regarding the future EU Constitution? I should like to sum up briefly what we expect from the future Europe of the future, as we want to shape Europe, the Europe of the 25 in the future: First of all, we want a more democratic and democratic Europe. That means: We want to strengthen the rights of the European Parliament. This is not an essential point, because it is a matter of what will actually be in the European Constitution. So first point: European Parliament strengthening, upgrading of the European Parliament. Secondly, We need an actionable Union, a decision-making Union. It will not be easier with the EU-25 than with the EU-15. That is to say, we must strengthen the majority voting, the principle of majority voting in comparison to the principle of unanimity, which has been very often - too often - expressed. Otherwise, the Europe of 25 members will fail. We know examples from history. Perhaps we should also give our Polish friends the story of the 18th. In the 19th century, the liberum veto of the then “Aristokrate Republic” – under quotation marks – was valid there. This liberum veto, the veto right of each member, has led to the failure of the Polish Parliament. – We cannot, we do not want to, and we will not repeat that at European level. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, we need a social Europe. Yes, we need a Europe that is far more than a common internal market – common competition rules are important, but are not the only one – we need to focus on the labour market problems and, in particular, on the growth problems, the EU's economic growth. What I have missed so far, Mr Scheibner – because you are looking at me just now – is an opinion by the Federal Chancellor – but it may still be coming, at the latest, at our urgent request – to the so-called Stability Pact of the Union. This pact does not promote stability or growth – that is unfortunately so. And if we take the growth target seriously, then we have to think something different from the insanity of the current Minister of Finance – and also the Minister of Finance – of States that violate the 3 percent rule to withdraw the right to vote in the Union. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is a... proposal, Mr Colleague, not a "fatty"!]] This is adventurous, Mr Molterer, and economic policy completely absurd. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Fourthly, we need an ecological Europe, one that takes seriously the self-elected environmental standards seriously, controls, monitors, and, in particular, a nuclear-free Europe. In this respect, conservative governments, the conservative part of the current Federal Government, are required. In particular, it is conservatively governed states that are currently operating a Renaissance of nuclear power in Europe, for example France and Bavaria. Bavaria is not known to have been ruled red-green, but Bavaria has been governed by the CSU for decades – if I have not been wrong since the war – by a party that is certainly not far from the ÖVP. Maybe put it. Get in touch with your colleagues in Munich! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] An ecological Europe also means – and I see this here in an appropriate way – that the merits of Commissioner Fischler are widely appreciated. Fischler has had one of the most difficult places within the European Commission. Agriculture is a hellish resort – everyone who is only on the verge of it knows that – and within the framework he has – one has to say almost now – within the restrictions under which he had to work, under the pressure of the European agricultural industry lobby, he has achieved a great deal and has repeatedly tried to keep the Austrian agriculture, the Austrian farmers and farmers free, so to speak. [[We welcome the Greens and the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Liberals.]] You are now nagging, Mr Molterer, and I am pleased that you agree with this remark – Mr Grillitsch too seems to agree with it. I can remember, however, some cases from the past where fishermen needed support from Austria and received it from the Greens, but not from the ÖVP. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Where we were different!]] [[Abg. Grill: In detail!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: You don't always have to be of one opinion!]] That's right! I'm glad you admit that! [[Abg. May. Molterer: If you are not convinced that this is right, you can express another opinion, Mr Van der Bellen! There is freedom of expression!]] Summary: We very much appreciate Commissioner Fischler. We would be pleased if he had the opportunity to become President of the Commission. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: For God's sake!]] We considered him to be an excellent candidate in view of the merits he had earned in this office, in the Commission and in the agricultural policy, which is a very difficult field of policy, one that requires very delicate compromises and that it is very important to keep in mind the far-reaching objective in the midst of these lines of agricultural policy. [[Abg. May. Molterer: “snail pits ”!]] That's what I think he did very well. The Greens want, fifthly, a common foreign policy of the Union – and that is more, Federal Chancellor Schüssel, than a formal foreign minister of the Union, that is much more! We are miles away from this development of the common foreign policy. As long as we do not have this common foreign policy, however, we find it adventurous to talk about a common military policy, a common defence policy, because then there is no basis, no need for a common military and defence policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We are willing to talk about European security and defence policy, but two things should be out of dispute. This requires at least two conditions: Firstly, a common foreign policy that deserves this name – as a preliminary step – and second, a parliamentary foundation of European security and defence policy. Without this parliamentary assurance – and I am sure the European Parliament will not be able to do so now – it will not be possible. We, the Greens at least, do not want a common defence policy based solely on Council conferences, solely on decisions of the so-called princes. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Joschka Fischer as “Richsfürst” – that’s good!]] And, I believe, as the basis of the future European Constitution, we want to make it clear that, as a basis for the draft convention, we do not want to do anything else, but rather to draw up the draft of which the European Convention, in which Austrian Members from all political groups were also involved, has been drawn up. We want this Convention draft! We are filled with deep distrust of the fact that on 14 November, we were On June – a day after the election to the European Parliament – the Intergovernmental Conference on the improvement of the Convention's draft, as Mr Bundeskanzler said, began. On the contrary, we fear that the Convention's draft will be watered down. This is the dissent we are currently having. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr President. If you have listened carefully to me – which I naturally assume – then you will have noticed that I have been in the previous minutes...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2653	Subjects of your motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2669	... the basic idea of the motion for a resolution on Austria's clear and comprehensible views on European democracy and constitution. This motion for a resolution, distributed to all Members of this House, refers to the draft Convention, to the Union's ability to act, to the full right of the European Parliament, to the European budget - I would almost have forgotten it. Who has tried to undermine this right, which has not yet been given, but has to be laid down in the Constitution? Who was that, Mr. Molterer? [[Abg. Oils: Oh! Mr. Grasser!]] Was that not a certain Karl-Heinz Grasser? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who speaks for compliance as you know! The one who speaks for compliance!]] Did he have any legitimacy for that? Did he also have a decision by the Federal Government as a legitimacy, not to mention the main committee, not to mention the National Council, of this House? [[Abg. Oils:... the fin! The fin was for that!]] He had no legitimacy at all! He wants to undermine a fundamental right of parliamentarianism, namely budgetary sovereignty. For 600, 700 years – when was this question debated in the English Parliament? – so in the order of magnitude, I believe, for at least 600 years, it is clear that sovereignty over the budget is a fundamental right for every parliamentarianism. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Oliver Cromwell!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: No! It's too long! That's certainly not right!]] Without them, there is no democratic parliamentaryism. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you still have the opportunity to make a more precise statement today. I have the impression that you've made a few points, but you're not going to decide – as always, I say. You say that the European Convention worked first-class. They mentioned in particular: Voggenhuber, Einm, Farnleitner – in any order. Farnleitner was your personal delegate, Hannes Farnleitner was – what is the trade expression? – who personally sent you to the European Convention. Farnleitner signed the Convention's draft, he signed it. That's indifferent to you?- Oh, my God! They obviously do not sign the Convention's draft European Constitution despite your praise – first-class work and so on. Nor am I satisfied with the fact that you say that the principle of qualified majority in the vote must be extended, otherwise, I add, Europe will not be able to decide. - Yes! But it's too little for me to say: But in an important – and this was your second sentence – question, like the tax policy in Europe – I do not say “European tax policy”, but I say “tax policy in Europe” – this has no chance anyway, and therefore it will not come. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Water! Space planning!]] - That's too little for me! I am waiting for the Austrian initiatives on this issue, at least in the capital income tax, at least in the corporate tax, where ceilings are pulled down, so to speak, coverts down in order to suggest a bar to European tax dumping. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, Mr Bundeskanzler: 60 years of landing in Normandy – yes, a significant date of the history. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Fight against the speaking time!]] It is clear that regardless of all the aspects that one has in detail – in agriculture policy, in competition policy, in transport policy – in the EU: This merit, this historic objective of the Union remains, namely the maintenance of peace in Europe! But one of your next sentences was: And how nice that in the future we have 60,000 men available at the push of a button! – You have to discuss this a little more precisely! In principle, I also think it is necessary for the EU to prepare for these things, which unfortunately will happen again and again – see the Balkan crisis ten years ago – but you have not said a word about the so-called structured cooperation in the EU; perhaps I have missed that. However, I am well aware of a statement by Mrs Foreign Minister in the ears, who – not in Vienna, but in European bodies – believes that Austria should immediately join this so-called structured cooperation. No man may understand what that is, but this military-structured cooperation would, among other things, mean that the Austrian military budget would have to be nearly tripled. And for that, Federal Chancellor, there is no mandate on the part of the Greens – that must be absolutely clear. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2818	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Van der Bellen in the main guidelines by Mrs Van der Bellen, Dr. Lichtenberger and colleagues on Austria's clear and comprehensible views on European democracy and constitution is now sufficiently supported in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to Members. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2940	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. He too has 15 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e2958	Mr President. Values Members of the Austrian Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! A special session just over a week before an election to the European Parliament, on the same subject as a urgent request from the Liberals and the People's Party at the last National Council meeting, of course, has nothing to do with this election campaign and with this election movement, as well as certainly the Taferln, which has been presented here and on which, by chance, any electoral slogans were to be read, have nothing to do with the election campaign. [[Abg. May. Worm: Mr. Molterer knows that!]] This also applies to the content and topics that are presented here, because if I look at the assessments here, then there is nothing to say about the European election, about the lines and about the merits or also the failure of Members and representatives, because otherwise it is “hance”, a “fatty” or “fatty about letter books”, as Mr Van der Bellen said. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's it!]] I don't want to say that this is hypocritical, because otherwise I might get an order call, and I don't take that word into my mouth either, but you should be honest, ladies and gentlemen: We have many opportunities to talk about European policy – I hope, not only in anointing words, but also when it comes to criticizing, criticism of ways of conduct in the European Union, of the mechanisms of the European Union. It cannot be that one is discredited here as a European critic or opponent. But, of course, one must admit that in a European election campaign all the advantages of the respective concepts and of the respective candidates, as well as the disadvantages and negative aspects, are discussed and are also to be discussed. I think you should make this clear here, too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, it is good and always good to discuss the European Union and the development of this European Union. But you should also confess yourself openly and honestly to the respective consequences of the demands, Mr Van der Bellen. They have rightly, like everyone else, put the European Union's peace project in the foreground and also welcomed it. I, too, do this – no question. One of the roots of European unification was the terrible events and experiences of the Second World War, but of course the wars before what they said: This must no longer happen in Europe! It must no longer happen that European nations are getting to complain of millions of dead people. We must create an organization where conflicts can be handled in a democratic, human, human way. – That was the beginning, and of course this is the success story of the European Union. However, we cannot live by this history and do nothing more for the future, but we also need to become a European Union security project from this peace project. It's not enough when we say: Germany will never again wage war against France. Austria will never again wage war against Italy. – That has become God of course, but that is not enough. If we confess to the Security Union project, we rightly also complain that today the United States is the only ones who have the political and military opportunity to demonstrate and actively intervene in crisis management – and rightly criticise the way in Iraq, for example, in disregard of all the rule of law, international law and human rights principles – then I also recognise that we from this Europe, from this European Union, must also make an instrument for a global security policy, which is also a counterpoint to a security policy that only understands itself militaryly. But, Mr Van der Bellen, if you say at the same time: We reject the means and the instruments in this direction, because more is investing in security tasks, trying to bring together also the military institutions, the military strategies, we reject them all!, then this is inconsistent. First of all, to say: Yes, we want this vision!, but then we don't want to go there – that's not the right way to this security union, as we imagine it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we say that this peace project was in the beginning, we must also say that the project of the Economic Union stood shortly thereafter. This is also to be supported – of course. It was precisely because we were in global competition at the time – and that was not even the time – that was the right and important way for Europe to unite economic systems, to reduce customs duties, to try to harmonise at least tax systems, to give impetus to the stabilisation of economic systems and thus to take positive measures in the field of labour market policy. But, on the other hand, we have to show this – and on the other hand, we have to take our stand – economic lobbys have also been created – at the top of the atomic lobby, as well as many other economic lobbys, also an agricultural lobby, also other appropriate institutions, which are precisely these harmonisations that abuse precisely these systems. If one introduces control mechanisms in a European Union – seefully but nevertheless – and insists that, for example, promotions, subsidies are misused, there are distortions of competition, there are cartels, but only very, very halfheartedly, because one is also somewhat restricted with all these systems, then this principle, against the roots, is directed against the visions of the European Union. If one is not even so far as to combat this subsidy abuse by reclaiming these subsidies from those countries that they have wrongly filed, then the wrong way to deal with our money is also. And on the other hand, we must take care of wherever we can! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Keusnigg.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is inconsistency when you are on the one hand The stability criteria for the single currency are required – and I believe that they are necessary, whether this is now... – Yes, okay, you can always discuss it, but you need stability criteria, and they also need to be respected. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] And at that time, before the introduction of the euro, we have explicitly said that we are not opposed to the project of the single currency, but that we do not have a penalty mechanism for those cases that are happening right now, namely that countries do not comply with the necessary requirements for the stability of this currency. Of course, it's the big countries like Germany that don't care about it at all. If a Minister of Finance now makes proposals – on whose content one can always discuss, but at least he has made proposals – at last make a bold proposal from the Austrian point of view, which obviously hurts those who are concerned, then you will fall back on your head again and say that you can't put the others in the head and that will harm us again. [[Abg. Oellinger: Please go! What's brave about that?]] So what do we want now? We liberals want an active, open, dynamic representation of Austrian interests also in the European Union! And thank God is doing just that by this federal government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] [[Abg. Oils: What's brave about it?]] They're demanding it. But when it's done, you say again: For God's sake, we'll be on the back again! Mr Oellinger, you have made a urgent request for nuclear policy at the last meeting, I believe. [[Abg. Oils: Was that smart?]] You have a lot of tones here: Slovakia does not adhere to agreements; all possible measures must now be taken. Then you criticized the government for doing too little here. We said: If this announcement by the Slovak Minister of Economic Affairs, i.e. not to close and even expand these unsafe power plants, is implemented, one must, of course, and with all possible means, raise and oppose the Austrian voice here. We did this wisely. The Austrian Federal Government has made this wise, it has issued signals – not those you wanted – and the answer that has come to it was a clear no of Slovakia to these expansion plans. This is a good representation of Austrian interests in the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Reheis and Mr Oellinger.]] And when it comes to developing this European Union into a political Union, then we come to the Constitutional Convention – and that is where our colleague Bösch played an important role – especially when it comes to genuine representation in the European Union. This is the great deficit: Peace Union – yes! Economic Union – yes! But where is the political Union, which of course also needs to be understood as democratic, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Oils: And the social?]] What about democratic bodies like the European Parliament? How's her self-understanding? What about the people's representation? I also expect a proper discussion on the Constitution of the European Union. What exactly does it look like to vote in favour of this Constitution at European level? I would expect you to discuss this too! Or do you really fear the will of the people in the European Union? Is it perhaps a coincidence – I don't think – that the only referendums that will be won are the accession elections? Everything else will always be made a problem. Closer to citizens in this European Union! This should also be in the foreground of this constitutional discussion, instead of – and the European Parliament has to accept this criticism – over the interests of the people, as was the case with our transit interests, as the European Parliament even pointed out in comparison to the Commission and called for even more stringent measures against Austria. This is not a people's representation, as we imagine it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] Of course, Mr President of the SPÖ – I thank you for the call for an interim call – we expect all Austrian representatives in the institutions of the European Union to respect this principle, ladies and gentlemen, namely Austrian interests – and not so, as honourable Members said to me in response to the last debate, when he said: Well, parliamentarian Scheibner is also primarily a representative of his party, of the free interests and not of the representative of his federal state. No, Mr One, but in that we may differ. [[Abg. Dr. One:... read in the Minutes, Mr. Cot!]] And if so, thank God: Of course, I was nominated by a party, I was elected by a party list. But my self-understanding as a Member of Parliament is to represent the interests of the Austrian population! [[Ironic Oh-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] The path may be different if one has an ideological and a fundamental policy foundation, but the objective must be the same, Mr. Einm. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That was also said by your EU Member, because that was the reason for the then debate. They justified the behaviour of, for example, the socialist EU delegates during the time of sanctions by the fact that they had just represented socialist interests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] And that's exactly how we're different. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the Greens.]] I ask an Austrian Member of the European Parliament to represent Austrian interests at a time when it is about giving aid to the country because this European Union neglects democratic principles, breaks them by imposing sanctions on a country, as it has been against Austria, and only because, in a democratic election, a parliament has been elected here and a federal government has been established. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens]] In this we differ, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And, Mr Gusenbauer, that's not a dirty dome campaign. That's not a dirty dome campaign! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: What is it then?]] You should look at your election campaign propaganda on the EU election in 1999 when, in the face of military action in Kosovo, after the death of 300,000 people – whether they were justified or not – at last took military action in the Balkans in order to end this murder and banishment and torture, this issue has been the subject of an EU election here in Austria. They have described it as if the evil NATO, the evil community of states, had come to terms with any democratic states, and have said: Thank God we are not involved, we are a neutral country and we do not have to participate. [[Abg. Reheis: That's incredible!]] That was a game with the feelings of the population, Mr Gusenbauer. So don't give us any lectures here! [[Abg. Reheis: That's pretty embarrassing what you're saying!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are concerned that Austrian representatives in the European Parliament have Austrian interests to represent. “Brief ” is the name of the Lord Van der Bellen. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Very weak! Especially weak!]] – This is still the same term of office of your EU members. I would have expected that you would not criticize this, but that you would finally apologize for the role your party and your German Chancellor climate played in the sanctions. [[Abg. Reheis: Excuse me for your unqualified...!]] I would have expected this from you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! That was to the detriment of Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If Mr Gusenbauer is present in the European Parliament and not only does not criticise these actions, she even welcomes them as he has done in his speech when a Member... [[Call the SPÖ:Gusenbauer?]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: European Parliament?]] - Excuse me: Swoboda! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (to the speaker point out) He is confused!]] They welcomed them in a different way! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Drinking champagne!]] If, in his speech, a Member of Parliament quotes a German chancellor and a head of state of the Republic as power-eaters and others, this is to the detriment of Austrian interests, Mr Gusenbauer! And you have to justify yourself here too! That and nothing else we want! You referred to Commissioner Fischler: Yes, of course, he has now criticized this election campaign. I don't know with what permission, but as a private person, he can certainly do that. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes, can he do that?]] However, I would have expected at the time, in this difficult situation, that he would not vote with the entire EU Commission and welcome and take note of these resolutions, but that he would have said at that time that these sanctions are unjust and unfair. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: This has nothing to do with... at all!]] So, ladies and gentlemen, it can't be a dirty dome campaign if we demand Austrian representatives to appear in the European Union for Austrian interests, and not against it. [[Call the SPÖ: Of course!]] And that's going to be 13th. The Austrians, of course, also have to judge on June. Is there a vision for a common Europe? – I hope so. Reality should be brought closer to this vision. In any case, however, we need an offensive, active representation of Austria in the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3378	From the government bank, Mr. Mag. Mainly reported. His speaking time is set at 15 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3396	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! Europe is 1st. In May, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, The peace project has new borders, a new face and will also need a new constitution and a new path of this united larger Europe. But for me, it's just like I did on 1st. In May, it was by no means a reason for overwhelming joy and joy, but for me as the Social Minister of this Republic, it is a reason for high vigilance so that Austria and its people do not get under the wheels through this Easter expansion. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the social Europe was addressed not only in the speeches of Mr Gusenbauer, but also in his Taferl, I can already point out that the transitional periods for Austrian workers have been negotiated from two years to five years and then seven years by me and this Federal Government and the previous Federal Government, in order to preserve social Europe and social security in Austria for our people, our citizens also in the future. You will also give me the right to say that in 2000, when I started as a minister, neither the Chamber of Labour nor the Austrian Trade Union Confederation expected this result because we started with the starting line for two years. The result that we have achieved together with Germany under the Swedish EU Presidency will have a positive impact on the peaceful social development of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the role of agricultural policy has also been raised in today's debate, you will certainly remember that I was responsible for Austrian veterinary policy in Europe for almost two years. This was the most difficult phase for Austrian agriculture: The first BSE case in Austria and the foot-and-mouth disease included, I would almost say medieval combustion methods in Tony Blair's socialist-dominated England, with non-security measures in Holland and in other European countries have threatened us, our agriculture and the development of our agriculture. I am very proud that my officials of the veterinary field at the time and today, but also the agricultural sector, have achieved in multi-hour, nightly meetings at European level, that today a scientific eradication model is standard in the European Union, according to Austrian example. One Minister of Agriculture has set different models, was economic and non-health and scientific in the situation at that time, because he believed in false consultants and was wrong and then had to take his hat to advance this path for the good and successful development of agriculture and safe food in Europe. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that from this point of view I am quite entitled to say that it was not easy here in Europe. I can recall that I was sitting there alone for 19 hours with the then representative of the Austrian delegation, Mrs. Dr. Prayersroither, and my veterinary until I, perhaps also with my stubbornness, reached the same BSE payments for Austria as for the other countries and finally gave the start for a future positive model. Mr Van der Bellen, therefore, forgive me for seeing some of the things in retrospect somewhat less rosy than you see in the future, but I insist that every intelligent person from positive experiences and positive insights for the future also goes new ways of positive design. When we speak of this Europe as a peace project, you also allow me to address the concerns and needs of the Austrians when they ask themselves: What kind of peace project is that? – For more than a year, European troops have persisted in a state of international war in the Middle East, and the European Union needs days to express itself against human rights violations, terrorism and attacks! Although Spain has retreated thanks to its troops, the other European partners have still waged a war there with European money, which is unacceptable for us in Austria, as a third country with a UN seat. In our foreign policy, we in Austria have always insisted that the United Nations are those who make world peace, to guarantee peace all over the world by the same standards for all states. If you want to shorten it: Same human rights for all! This same human rights for all is obviously still not available. In any case, it is a good sign when Schröder is the first German Chancellor to be invited to the commemorative event of the 60-year celebrations of the landing of the Allied troops in Normandy this week. Mr Gusenbauer! If we consider the then exclusion of Austria and the arguments for it, we must also: Your present-day top candidate, Swoboda, has said that I am sorry that we in Carinthia, Tyrol, South Tyrol, did not take so long in the neighbouring regions to find the way to peace and to a common meeting with the enemies from beyond and beyond the border for exchange of interest and conflict management, while the European Union needs six decades to take the same step that our regions and our regional politicians, Dr. Haider, the national leaders of Tyrol, South Tyrol and the regional presidents of Friuli, Julisch-Venice, took decades ago. [[Abg. Oil: Well, well!]] I therefore believe that we must not let it please us, nor let it please us, if, in this situation, a false mirror is held by our own countrymen in the European Parliament. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And if, Mr Gusenbauer, during this meeting a historian's commission is required of your top candidates, allow me to say: We do not need a commission of historians, we need Austrians who represent Austria in the European Parliament, who carry Austria in their heart, because the decisions of the next few years in the European Parliament will be crucial. [[Call the SPÖ: Oh yes!]] The new Constitution must be voted on. In addition to the new Constitution, the reorganisation of the European Union’s financial design is underway in 2006. I would like to have Austrians representing Austria and not to make other political considerations at the expense of their home country. I believe that this is a legitimate wish of the Austrian people for these European elections. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer, allow me to say the following: Let's not be larmoyant! Her top-ranking candidate was the first to rework the European election campaign into a national election campaign on Austrian television. In my home country of Carinthia, it says: As you call into the forest, it comes back as an echo. – He now got the echo to make another, highly political choice from a European election. We need a European election. We need European Members for Austria in the European Parliament, because the questions of the future are to be solved there. We have shifted more than 60 percent of our regulations, which we then made in the Austrian Parliament, with the consent of the Austrian population to the European level. And that is why we now need 18 MEPs in the European Parliament who represent Austria “fully” there. Mr Gusenbauer, please also forgive me for having a different view than you have shown in your speech. We have well represented Austria in the European Parliament, the Commission and the Councils on the part of this Federal Government. We have achieved these transitional periods in the sense of a social Europe. We have also achieved that, for the high social level we have in Austria, we have received the horizontal possibilities of comparison, the social states with the level increase up and not with a levelling down in the European Committee. We have just held a discussion at the Social Council two days ago on the fact that the health and social sector of course must be treated differently from all other economic sectors in which it is based on the country of origin principle in order not to have to experience social reduction in Austria in the future. And I therefore believe that those majority that we have achieved in Europe so far were good for the development of the Austrian social state. When I look at the tax reform with which we see the withdrawal of the 13th. As an Austrian Minister of Social Affairs, I think that this is good because we have more money available in the country. And I am not right about Mr Van der Bellen, who believes that Mr Grasser is a little too shabby about promoting the European Union, but is of the opinion that we need every single euro to create employment and work here in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] When we look at the unemployment figures in Austria, we are grateful to God for many social-democratic and green-led countries of the European Union as far as employment is concerned. We're in the leading field. We are at the forefront of youth employment, we are at the forefront of employment as a whole, and we thank God also in a pick-up process as regards the employment of older workers – and this, ladies and gentlemen, is good! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, that I also have a different view in some points of the discussion than the opposition. We also need committed people in a Europe of the future who fully represent the very nature of their own country. The concept of the founding fathers of the European Union has been based on their experience. Whether the French Schuman, the German Adenauer or the Italian de Gasperi – by the way three German-speaking politicians, all of whom from the former war zones of the First and Second World War have gained their experience for the peace project Europe – have all presented this Europe as a Europe of diversity and not a Europe of unity. When I see that in my time as a youth minister compared to my predecessors in the field of Austrian internal policy, the exchange of young people and the promotion of youth programmes could be increased by more than 25 percent in the four-year period, I think that we have done more than many others before us from the Austrian Government to give this peace-enhancing project in Europe a chance. I also think it is legitimate to draw attention to this in the Austrian Parliament. I am always surprised that the social democracy of its historical responsibility is not aware that human rights must not, of course, be shared by the old-Austrian German-speaking minorities. The March events of 1919, when hundreds of demonstrating German-speaking old Austrians were shot down by the Czechs, were demonstrations after a call by the then socialist party. That is why, I believe, the Social Democratic Party should today have more sensitivity and more continuity in Europe in its tradition for this issue. I hope that the new European Parliament will not, like the old one, have a majority for human rights for the old Austrian minorities for just a short moment, but will constantly fight for the existence of full human rights for all minorities and for all groups in Europe, even for the ancient Austrian minorities, and will not be subject to a dead justice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I know what I am talking about, ladies and gentlemen. Some of today's processes, which are being handled in our neighboring country of the Czech Republic and which concern matters of compensation and the recognition of human rights and prison periods, are still characterised by the Beneš decrees. Unfortunately, the Beneš decrees are not dead right, as is always known to us. In a new Europe, which is a peace project, all these things have to pay attention to. I am of the same opinion as the Prime Minister of Bavaria in his Pentecost: It is actually a shame that there are two speeds for human rights in the European Union. There can only be a peace project at a speed for human rights. Human rights must be indivisible – within Europe, outside Europe, worldwide! That is why we need – yes, Mr Van der Bellen! – a common foreign policy of all those based on the principle of the indivisibleness of human rights. Whether it is Iraq, whether it is internal-European, whether it is Middle East or questions from South America, human rights must be indivisible – even in China, for example, because there is also the very worrying anniversary of the student uprising in the 15th century. Years of age: Human rights are indivisible! If it becomes part of the European Union, then the European Union will have all the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3499	President. — The debate is closed. His speaking time, like that of the following speakers, is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3524	Ladies and gentlemen, I will also explain to you why this demand for a social Europe is so important. You should know: It is not enough simply to declare that there should never again be a First and Second World War, but also to add that the roots of extremism, the elimination of democracy and wars are in economic chaos, unemployment and unemployment. That is why we have such great concerns. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This goes down to the issue of crime, which goes down to the question of securing economic sites, which one then has to discuss, it goes so far as to ensure social levels that one simply joins a model of Austria, then finally transportable and transferable to a European model of a social state. We are fighting for this social Europe. – And this is our criticism of the policy of government and your policy in Brussels: that you do not fulfil exactly that you are decent here, that you did not really, did not support initiatives for employment in good time – if, then hesitantly, and if, then too late – and for growth policy did not do anything! What did you do? – Minister of Finance Grasser makes anti-democratic proposals by not thinking anything better than: If someone does not comply with deficit limits, withdraw voting rights! This makes no sense because this strict compliance with the Stability Pact does not really give impetus to growth and employment. – The biggest scourge is, in the end, unemployment! It undermines democracy, and it is the root of anti-democratic and extremist currents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is therefore important that this Europe is a peace union, a social union. It is therefore important that this Europe should come together within the framework of a constitution that this Europe will receive a strong European Parliament. It is important that it also gets this legitimacy through a high turnout. That is why we should all strive here to motivate voters by means of appropriate electoral culture, that they have real desire and motivation, in the elections on 13 May. ==References== I have already agreed that Austria is one of those countries whose government members are very little represented at EU Councils and have no interest in these meetings. That's what I found, it's an essential element of this government. But what I don't understand is: What does it make sense if Austria has a respectable Commissioner, who is then thrown to the feet in his own country, who is criticized by his own party, by his own members of the government? What makes it sense for the ÖVP to allow FPÖ to speak critically to the former ÖVP minister and current EU Commissioner Fischler, who has made a critical statement of the resistance to this election culture, who has opposed this dirty dome campaign against Hannes Swoboda – in the interests of Austria! – so attacked, which ultimately caused damage to Austria? What reputation will Franz Fischler continue to work with in the Commission in the remaining time when he is attacked from his own home? I don't understand what you're doing here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What I don't understand yet is: What makes it sense to poison the atmosphere so much between the members of the European Union of the four political groups? Mr ÖVP-Parteiobmann Dr. Schüssel! Why do you let ÖVP Secretary General Lopatka work with fake letters against Hannes Swoboda on the ÖVP homepage? It only poisons the atmosphere. We in Austria should be interested in the fact that all our MEPs in the European Parliament have a climate that allows us to work together on issues where there is agreement – not only in the large political groups – in order to really help the interests of Austria in the European Parliament in Brussels, instead of being able to enforce, as in the transit question, on the nuclear question – and now we will even lose the Commissioner, because we are not really absolute. A picture of the dispute, a picture of an election campaign, in view of which an outsider only takes his head and asks himself if this country understands that it is also about the interests of Austria in Brussels. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Water sales!]] – You should start right now, you must have a hot head because of this election campaign that you have led here. – This is the problem we are facing today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why my appeal to take advantage of the last few days and to highlight the common position for our future work in Brussels! And this does not mean disaster to the Commissioner who has been set up by Austria, it does not belong to disaster each other when it comes to representation work in the European Parliament! One last one, Mr. Federal Chancellor Schüssel! I would remind you of Mr Rauscher's article in the "Standard" of 3. June, in which he writes, you were told by Juncker, by Chirac, that there will be a reaction when – in 2000 – the FPÖ comes to the government. . We had nothing against a committee of inquiry, for we would also have been interested in your role, Mr. Federal Chancellor Schüssel, your role in preventing sanctions – and the role of the Conservatives, the Spanish VP, the French VP and all the other conservative sister parties who have ignited and were actually the root of these sanctions. In reality, then, we have had to try to eliminate this whole thing, and we have fought against it. Hannes Swoboda at the top, side by side with Franz Fischler and others who have worked for Austria. That's unpleasant for you, but that's what you'll have to listen to!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3589	Mr Spindelegger came next to the speaker's desk. His speaking time is also 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3614	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague and clubman Willi Molterer today coined the concept of the “heating of the SPÖ”. – Mr Cap has just taken up the proof of truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Whoever with so much negative energy, with so much superficialness and with this polemic tries to move something in Europe, is on the wrong ferry, ladies and gentlemen! It doesn't make you move. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] How superficial your sayings are is shown by your only Taferl, which you have apparently spent today: “For a social Europe!” That means, ladies and gentlemen: We want to move social policy to Brussels? We want the European Union to decide in future how to pay pensions in Austria, what health status exists here, who receives unemployment insurance? – No, thank you, that should and must be decided in Austria! That is what we are going to do in this Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I must also not hide my criticism of you, Mr Van der Bellen. They call us today to a special meeting and demand that we discuss the matter. - Agreed. But what are you doing in the election campaign? When I drive through Austria and look at the posters of you, I see cartoons of Austrian politicians there. I mean, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic is a humorous person, he would probably not be able to laugh at it, but, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. Is that your content? That's why you're in an election campaign? [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] What is this content: caricing Austrian politicians? [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] By the way, I can also keep you as follows: To present an Austrian minister as a vampire is more tasteless than inhalable, ladies and gentlemen! I mean, we all wanted a different level of election. You don't need to step out here and raise the moral index finger if you're actually working with such methods! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Did you say that to Mr. Lopatka?]] But let us talk about the content, ladies and gentlemen. For us, a positive European representation and adjustment is the most important thing. It's already been mentioned today, but I'll hold it again: That we are today a Europe of 25 is, I believe, not to underestimate and must not be presented often enough as what it is: That's the world's most unique, that's the world's best peace project there is! We can be proud of this together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let's look into today's world! It is still a question of war and peace that is being put there and there: in Iraq, whether this is in the Balkans, where peace can only be held through massive troop presence, or whether this is the powder barrel of the Middle East. The question of war and peace is decided in Europe, namely for peace and for freedom. We attach importance to the fact that we are also going into an election campaign with a positive attitude to this Europe, to this peace project. That is what we stand for as a People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We want us to expand and further develop this peace project. We are in favour of extending a peace project in our contents set out in our European manifesto, by making a common foreign policy – in this we agree with you – which deserves this name, but that also means that we want to have an area of security and prosperity around this European Union, within which we do not necessarily have to be all members of the European Union, but on the basis of which we can rely that this Europe and thus Austria remain secure. This includes many things, such as a common asylum policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! We want to see the standard in Europe that someone who is persecuted receives asylum, but only that and not all others too. [[Abg. Oillingers: Also in Austria!]] We want all European states to be responsible too, not just those who are particularly affected, just like we Austrians. That is why we are committed to ensuring that this Europe remains secure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We also support the fact that there is a value structure in Europe so that such a thing as it happened to us can no longer happen – a value structure where the rule of law is followed by all, and a value structure where sanctions that are unjustified cannot be imposed on a Member State. We stand for a positive Europe, ladies and gentlemen, and we believe that Austria can be strongly represented in this Europe: with a German Chancellor Dr Wolfgang Schüssel, who has the competence and experience to represent us in the European Council, and a Ursula Stenzel, who has shown that she is a competent and excellent European Parliamentary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3737	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. Speech time: 6 minutes. Do you agree that I will interrupt you after 2 minutes, because then the session, as announced, will be interrupted? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3756	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. At the end of the day, the special session we have convened is an act that was urgently needed because the European Heads of State refused to disclose their attitude to the European Constitution before the European elections. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They have actively prevented the parties to whom they belong from being measured by what they say about the European Constitution. And I tell you, one of the central points, especially in Austria, but not only in Austria, is the attitude of the governments to the EURATOM Treaty, to what role it will play in the future Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With regard to this issue, the electorate in the forthcoming European elections has a right to clarity, as you, Mr Bundeskanzler, want to keep it out of the European Constitution with the exclusion of EURATOM, as you say, that this instrument for the promotion of nuclear energy still exists, that it is obviously not questioned, because many conservative governments still want to turn to nuclear energy against the will of their people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Main: Tony Blair!]] That's where we want clarity. Yes, it is also a socialist Prime Minister, I do not hide it, but the focus of the Pro-Atom-Liga, ladies and gentlemen – it must be clarified, and this can be clearly read in all the decisions of the Heads of Government – lies with the conservative parties. That must be clear. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] - Is it already that far? Why do we place such great importance on the end of EURATOM? . We do not want to be obliged to pay for the promotion of an energy forum that is far too dangerous and too expensive for Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3829	Ladies and gentlemen, you may continue to speak after the part-session. The remaining speaking time is 4 minutes. Notice of applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3848	Before I interrupt the meeting, I announce that Members Dr. Glawischnig, colleagues and colleagues, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the use of an investigation committee to examine the responsibility of Federal Minister Gehrer as the supervisory body of the Federal Museums as regards the lack of consequences from obvious misunderstandings in the Art History Museum. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 GMOs shall be debated and voted after completion of the agenda. In addition, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 GOG requests to set up an investigation committee on the procurement of combat aircraft. A debate was not required. The vote will take place after the agenda has been completed. In addition, MEPs have given Dr. Cap, colleagues according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requests that an investigation committee on the catastrophic presence of Austrian government members in EU Councils and the related damage to Austria be set up in European comparison. There was no need to hold a debate on this. In this case too, the vote will take place after completion of the agenda. I am now interrupting the sitting by 1.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3912	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you to take your seats back and resume the interrupted session – as agreed at 1.15 p.m. – again. Mrs Lichtenberger came to the floor to continue her speech before the interruption. Time left: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e3939	Mr President. I referred to EURATOM before the interruption. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a special hobby that is five green riders because they don't think anything else, but that is the central requirement of the Austrians for a European policy. This is also the result of surveys. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] According to a survey, 78 percent of the exit from nuclear energy is one of the key demands for the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens have achieved with alliance partners from many European countries in the constitutional discussion process that the EURATOM Treaty has been initiated, which can give hope that in the future, States that have decided against nuclear energy will no longer have to participate in the promotion of nuclear energy, where, on the other hand, the European Parliament has no word to speak – we reject it! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. One.]] This, Mr Bundeskanzler, is also a task to make this policy clear to your colleagues at the Intergovernmental Conference. [[Abg. Oillinger: No interest in the ÖVP!]] – The interest of the EIA in this issue is rather ending, as I have to point out on the basis of the presence here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] But you are also required to make this concern your core concern. If you insist on representing Austrian concerns, I must say that, for example, it is a classic Austrian concern to have a much bigger one than a Commissioner per country, according to surveys, Mr Bundeskanzler! This has to be a matter of future policy, because the great deal of discussion between nuclear energy and the atomic lobby on the one hand and renewable energies for a sustainable economy on the other is now running and not only in five years. There must be no withdrawal and there must be a debate on the current poor safety standards. This is a decision of principle that we have to make at European level, but it is also, Mr President, for the German Chancellor, for the domestic, that the eco-strom producers are not now being thrown out of the market by law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another issue that is enormously important to people in Austria – but not only in Austria, I can tell you – for the European future is the question of transport development, traffic congestion. This is not an original constitutional issue – therefore we have not honestly included it in our questionnaires – but it is a topic for a future policy that the ÖVP representatives will also need to contribute to. In the future, it will not be possible to define Austrian interests – and you have always put this in the foreground – in such a way that it is about the interests of Austrian freighters, almost exclusively, but in such a way that it is about the residents and their health and healthy sleep. – Mr Bundeskanzler! This is an order to the politics that comes from the electorate. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have been since today – and I would like to conclude with this – almost good courage that a certain change can take place in the position. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Vehement has always fought Böhmdorfer against the European prosecutor, who should take action against fraud by European means. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Call the ÖVP:The speaking time!]] You said you were for it today. Thank you. Just so on! Follow us at EURATOM!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4038	I call Mr Bösch. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4057	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals welcome today's special meeting – I am distinguishing myself from Mr Spindelegger from the ÖVP – because it gives us the opportunity to adopt the different approaches to the forthcoming EU election on 13 March. Also on June, to really explain, to draw attention to various contradictions and to reveal some contradictions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! If you, Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, come to the speaker's desk and polish morally against the FPÖ and the government policy, but you scoffed at the streets in your postersujet's government politicians in Austria, then this is a contradiction! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the liberals: That is embarrassing!]] Mr Van der Bellen! They also wanted us to agree that it would be right if we agreed to the EU Constitutional Treaty of the Convention without if and if not. At the same time, you will assemble the structured cooperation, which is also a content of this Constitutional Treaty, and we want to know that we will no longer discuss it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger]] Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals and this Federal Government will discuss this draft Constitutional Treaty once again, because important issues are still to be addressed for Austria. Mrs. Lichtenberger, you have made a few cuts – the EURATOM Treaty is a subject which, since it has been in office, takes this Federal Government more seriously than all its predecessors. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Lichtenberger, this is a subject which, like the protection of water and the decision on it at national level, is the subject of this government policy, but also the solution to the transit agreement. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That was never controversial!]] And that is why it is important that we also discuss, on the issue of voting at European level, the unanimity, with regard to majority voting, once again, whether the interests of a country like Austria can be represented under the future Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals also differ in principle from the SPÖ. Mr Gusenbauer, you have come to the speaker's seat and have rightly also demonstrated that there is little to be done in this election debate on European issues. But I can also ask you the question: Why Paste Are you, then, Austrianally making this choice for a box election against the Federal Government? – This is also a case of the SPÖ, as is the case with the Greens. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer, you have rightly also - I agree with you - assembled the removal of the European level from the citizens. They have demonstrated that in many areas, the European level simply goes beyond the interests of European citizens through the Member States. And, of course, you have also referred to our detection of your top candidates and their role in the context of EU sanctions as “serious” and “under every criticism”. Mr Gusenbauer! The behaviour of the SPÖ in the context of sanctions against Austria was immense and under every criticism – I have to say that again in every sense! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: Superinstructor! Mr. Oberlehrer Bösch!]] I would remind you – in case you have doubts about this – that these measures, which you have taken part in and in which you have been a leader, including you, Mr Gusenbauer, and your current top candidate for the European election Swoboda, have had a sad impact on the Austrian population, and not on government politicians, as you would like to make the public aware. Ladies and gentlemen! These measures had an impact on cultural, scientific, sporting and interpersonal relations. Remember the anti-Austrian hysteria that you provoked! The SPÖ was on this sanctions question of the sorcerer. And we will not take this responsibility from you, Mr Gusenbauer. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the liberals: That's it!]] I should therefore like to make the following request to confirm this Austrian position for the government parties and for us to be free: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4196	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, stands for negotiation and vote. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4360	I call Mrs Bures. Speech times of this round: 5 minutes each. Please keep it exactly. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4384	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that we can have a discussion today about where Europe should develop in the future. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The only thing you want is a socialist Europe, not a social one!]] I am not very pleased with the last remarks, Mr Bösch, who has continued here with a very subjective and very aggressive style, which we have had to experience in the last few days. In recent days we have experienced a debate on European policy, which was characterized by aggressive rhetoric and high nervousness by the government parties. [[Abg. Scheibner: You see us very nervously!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that the ÖVP and the FPÖ are very nervous, as more and more people are turning away from the politics you are making because it is at the disadvantage of the majority of the population. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's how we haven't been left for a long time!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also understand nervousness, as it is unfortunately the case that you have visibly misrepresented Austrian interests in Europe. The accusation you have to make is: They have not even tried to represent Austrian interests. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Not like Swoboda, gal?]] They did not go to the Council meetings at all! Mr Bundeskanzler, you and your government do not even take the opportunity to take part in measures to combat unemployment. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The Federal Chancellor was represented at every...! That's wrong!]] You're weakening the sessions, you're not going right away, you're not even trying. And this is the accusation you have to make, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have to make this accusation. And that is why I would also like to tell you, who are sitting on the government bench today, the reality of life of many people sitting in front of the screen today a little closer to you, what the situation of many people looks like. Since the start of the Black and Blue Government, unemployment has increased from year to year. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's wrong!]] We have a record unemployment in Austria. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: In Vienna!]] We have youth unemployment: 50,000 young people without jobs, without hope for the future, without opportunities – and your policy is to blame, ladies and gentlemen of the government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Cheuch: Thank you, Michael!]] We also have a labour market situation where it is becoming increasingly difficult for women to find a job, to reconcile work and family. [[Call to the ÖVP:You are a Viennan, Mrs. Colleague!]] 850 000 Austrians are once a year threatened with unemployment. That is, every third party working in the private sector is unemployed once a year – and this has massive consequences. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to keep in mind: The incomes are falling, you reduce pensions – but prices are rising. We have the highest tax rate that rents rise, people can no longer afford to live. Mr. Federal Chancellor, during your term of office, the number of declarations has increased by 300 percent! [[Abg. Großruck: You've caught Karl Marx's speech!]] You are responsible for ensuring that people can no longer afford to live and a roof over their heads because you reduce income and pensions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, therefore, the ÖVP and FPÖ are rightly nervous, people turn away. The majority of people want a social Austria and a social Europe. [[Abg. Grossruck: A Federal Chancellor Bures!]] They do nothing to counter unemployment. I also say to you that the majority of people do not want to have a Europe of mass unemployment, that the majority of people do not want a Europe in which privatisation is desperate. You sell Austrian businesses, you sell social flats to real estate companies, you even try to privatize our Austrian water. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a naughtiness! Stop the polemic! That's incredible!]] This is an accusation you have to make. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: If you know that there is no actual correction! This is an abuse of our agreement!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The majority of people reject this policy, this non-social policy. The majority of people reject this political style, which is embarrassing, which is really unworthy of a German chancellor – as many have said to me. [[Abg. Scheibner: What is this style?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have embarked on an election campaign on the competition of ideas in which it is a matter of offering problems to people. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You just want to fight!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] We are fighting for a Europe that fights unemployment, we are fighting for a Europe in which there are growth initiatives. We are fighting for Austrian interests to be represented and heard in Europe. The SPÖ therefore stands for a new and social Europe. – That's why we advertised 13th. June!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4669	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Same time of speech. Please, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4694	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Spindelegger, after Mr Cap's speech, said that our clubman's statement that the SPÖ had been rehearsed was confirmed by the Cap speech. I can only say that your speech, Mrs Bures, has confirmed this theory. It is the skinning of the SPÖ that has been expressed in your speech. And we reject such a policy, ladies and gentlemen. – Erich Haider, that was clear, Erich Haider from Upper Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You mean Erich Haider!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say the following: If you accuse this government that it negates the living situation of people in this country, you do so against better knowledge. If we make a comparison today, where red politics, for example in Vienna, where red-green politics in Germany leads, then we see, the comparison makes us sure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Vienna, ruled by Red, is the federal state with the highest unemployment. In May, an increase in the unemployment rate was recorded, while in Austria labour market data are improving. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Red-Green in Germany: twice as high unemployment as in Austria. This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen. – Social is what creates work. Mrs Colleague, remember that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For today's discussion. I would like to say to Mr Posch that there is no discrepancy for us, even we are grateful for this special meeting. We are especially grateful to the ORF for five hours of live transmission, for the visionaries can make a concrete picture, because of course our policy differs in many things, Mr. Oillinger. Finally, they want to have a left-wing Europe with instability, with new debt, with negative consequences for growth, employment and social security. [[Abg. Silhavy: And you want a right Europe!]] This is your policy that we do not want, Mr Cap. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If, of course, we are also talking about the future of Europe today – politics is future design – then after ten years of membership a small look back must be allowed to a small interim balance. Ten years of Austria's membership of the EU is ten years of success, ladies and gentlemen! We have provided important impetus for growth, employment and stability. But that wasn't a coincidence. This is not the EU's merit, it is the merit of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen, because these successes are not a coincidence. [[Abg. Oils: In unemployment!]] To stability: In 1999 we were at last in terms of stability. Our representatives have been sent home from Brussels, for example: Come back when you have a proper concept! Today, we are among the four best in the European Union with regard to stability. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Do you know what instability means? – Instability means primarily that it hits the “little” man. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] If there is no price stability, if there is no monetary stability, who will be affected? – The “little” man you pretend to represent, Mr Oellinger, that is your policy! Their policy is trying to draw a picture that does not at all correspond to reality! Or we take the growth strategy, employment strategy. This Government has adopted the following measures: Economic and Social Package I, Economic and Economic Package II, Growth and Location Package, Tax Reform I and Tax Reform II – a comprehensive charge of positive measures that led to Austria's economic growth in the previous year being twice as high as the EU average that unemployment, regardless of whether unemployment, youth unemployment or long-term unemployment, was only half as high in Austria as in the EU average. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Oils: Don't always ask the same!]] [[Abg. Elder: Get up!]] Of course, every unemployed person is too much. We know that, Mr President, but we do not live in the empty air. We are living in Europe, and it is crucial which way Europe will go in the future. And if we are committed to this Europe and want as many people as possible to choose the right path, then because we want to continue the success story of the last ten years in the future. We want a Ursula Stenzel and her team to step in to ensure that those measures that have been implemented so successfully in Austria are also the guiding principle for Europe in the future. [[Abg. Eder: Please, not that too! These are threats!]] [[Abg. Oils: Please don't!]] Only two weeks ago, the Monetary Fund said that the reforms of this government were a showcase, a model example for Europe, and also that, on the basis of what we have done, within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy – and Lisbon means jobs, income opportunities and social security – we are among the top three in Europe. That is why we want this policy to be enforced by a Ursula Stenzel, by an Othmar Karas, by a Agnes Schierhuber and a Paul Rübig in Europe. We want a bourgeois Europe, we want a successful policy, we do not want a left-wing Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4866	I call Mr Pilz. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4900	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! From Brussels to Vienna, until Budapest – you could still list many European cities – nobody is sure interested in whether this is a left-wing Europe, a right Europe, a country traitor Europe, a weber Europe or another Europe, but the only question that arises today and here: Is this National Council able to make a substantial contribution to European integration in many, many areas in the coming years? [[Abg. May. Posch: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] That is what we are discussing here, and that is why we ask some questions. And that is why we also have to ask a urgent question because the Federal Chancellor is still either unable or unwilling to answer some of the most important questions. [[Abg. Scheibner: You weren't there the last time we discussed this!]] We've already heard: Transport policy, energy policy – I do not want to repeat any of it. I would just like to deepen in one point some important questions in such a way that even beyond this House, people who are faced with a difficult electoral decision may be a somewhat better-founded judgment, and that is the great area of security policy. I am very surprised to have heard the statement made by the Foreign Minister in Brussels on 17 November. On the other hand, it is a very positive result that it has proposed that Austria should participate in structured cooperation within the framework of the European Union from the very beginning. That sounds like a terrible foreign word now, but behind it something very simple is hidden. The European Constitution should allow individual Member States to form something like a military core Europe. This is problematic for a number of reasons, and it is still open today whether this is really a useful contribution to the necessary agreement in European foreign and security policy. But one shouldn't be kept silent here: In the Federal Army Reform Commission, not only is the least recommendation in favour of structured cooperation at all, and this is because from the military to the civil experts at the present stage, we all warn about it and point out: Dear Austrian politicians, consider what a persil license for the Federal Chancellor and for the Foreign Minister on the issues of structured cooperation means! We currently have a share of military expenditure of just over 0.78 percent of gross domestic product. The European average is 1.4 percent. The average of the candidates for structured cooperation is about 2.0 percent. Those who today call for a political persil line for structured cooperation in Vienna must also say that at the next federal budget they are ready to support the increase in the direction of the tripled Austrian military budget! Mr Bundeskanzler, I would have liked to have this explained by you! Please set Do not resort to structured cooperation in Brussels or Bucharest or elsewhere where – where you and your foreign minister have given the strangest explanations – and do not hide in Vienna that the people in Austria have to bear the costs according to the Eurofighter model! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Description They prefer a precise and appropriate contribution from Austria to the common European security. Describe positively how we can remain neutral within Europe and still beyond the borders of the Union. Describe how we can secure Europe in the Constitution and in democracy in such a way that future common military units can not be used in accordance with the example of Iraq-USA – and that threatens African scenarios – but in a secure international framework, well controlled by the European Parliament. We make new proposals every day, how a meaningful security policy and also military contribution from Austria to European and global security could look forward to. But we also place great emphasis on, Mr Bundeskanzler – and with this I would like to conclude – that in security policy, and this may apply for the future, the same is said for the first time in Vienna and in Brussels... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4953	Please, the final sentence, the time is really short!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4969	I'm just at the closing point. – In this direction, Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to end by appealing to you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e4996	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5014	Mr President. Mr. Chancellor! High house! Mrs Bures, it is a strange thing if you go out of here and approach this country – and I am referring to it now – even though we must congratulate this government because it is unemployment in relation to the European level has halved because it is particularly thinking about young people and giving them future opportunities. I think it's strange that you're making this country worse than it is. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is your basis for discussion, but I congratulate this government: 13. Place worldwide, Economic Location Austria – I congratulate you, Mr. Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Top three in Europe: Unemployment, inflation, economic growth. – These are the achievements that this government has achieved, because there is a free participation and because freedom policy is, in particular, brought into this government very consciously! But this government cannot – and this is the position of freedom – be critical of Europe. In many areas we have problems. EURATOM: It is almost – “hypocritical” is not to be said in this House, but it is strange to me: We have tabled a motion for a resolution which has just affected the question of EURATOM, and the Greens have not gone along. It is also a kind of solidarity to represent a common anti-atomic policy externally, that is solidarity within Austria. But here there is blasphemy and rapture, so outside there is no joint action. With regard to EURATOM, we have very clear positions: The long-term objective of a gradual expiry of the EURATOM Treaty has always been the principle of our policy. A fundamental revision of EURATOM and a commitment to political determination at a separate review conference on the redesign of EURATOM are to be made, we want to re-regulate this at the latest one year after the Intergovernmental Conference has ended. The use of EURATOM funds exclusively for the decommissioning of installations – the greens did not support this! I find it objectionable of you to go out and say that you are the ones who run anti-atomic policies. That is not true, but we are doing it here, with a motion for a resolution which you did not support. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of course, it is also welcome that this government is committed to European security standards. We will succeed. Mr Pilz, solidarity: I was now at the NATO Annual General Meeting in Bratislava. It is not about solidarity, but it has been said: Solidarity in Europe means common defence or foreign policy, common research and economic policy, including on arms systems and other areas. So there you leave the solidarity. Europe also needs a common position there, and we will bring this common position closer to the population. Where there is no solidarity from Europe, it is also in transit. As a Tyrolean, I know how hard our fight against transit is. That's what I see when I look at the last days: 60 kilometers of congestion, then the motorway is closed again – and no support from Europe! But our Deputy Chancellor Hubert Gorbach will not give up this fight. We will fight for an orderly road cost directive. We will continue to pursue this consistent policy, in contrast to you who are making everything bad, so that some people abroad believe that our tourist country, where we have 70 million appointments, is not worth visiting. That's where I have to tell you: Support this government policy! Support the positions of our vice chancellor on the question of transit, and we will have success! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign in view of the agreed speaking time.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like to put a final sentence to the honourable Member. Van der Bellen. With regard to unanimity on certain questions, there will never be another one with us: The principle of unanimity also applies to the question of water! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign the other day.]] If you say in this regard that you give up the principle of unanimity, please consider what you are doing! We will fight for it to remain upright.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5126	We're coming to the last round of speakers and we've got 11 minutes left. I suggest: Four times three minutes plus votes means that we end this debate and thus the agenda at around 14.03 a.m. The green club agrees that the urgent request does not begin at 2 p.m., but 2 or 3 minutes after 2 p.m. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case, so I'm going to do that. Mr Dr. Einsatz came to speak. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5153	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the very short period of time, I would like first of all to make a motion for a resolution by Members of Parliament concerning the Intergovernmental Conference on the European Constitution. The proposal is, as I hope, long enough to be distributed. What we are talking about is to make it clear that the European Union is now facing key challenges and that the government is therefore called upon to contribute to meeting these challenges. On the one hand, it is about maintaining this European Union, the Europe peace project, and that means primarily ensuring that Parliament is strengthened and that citizens themselves are given the last word in Europe. On the other hand, it is a question of my honour. Ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that the essential interests of people in Europe – that is peace, that is work and income or work with an income from which you can also live – is social security, and that is a healthy environment – are the main goals to which we are fighting. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I don't want to go into too much detail. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps let me say one thing: What it's all about on 13 March. June is a choice of people in the European Parliament who are committed precisely to these life interests of people in Austria and people across Europe. [[Abg. May. Molterer: And not for a memorial!]] It is not primarily about stakeholders, but about people who are committed to the interests of the people living in Austria and Europe. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Don't think!]] [[Call the ÖVP:No follow-up!]] ==References====External links== To beat June. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is precisely about the people who are committed to peace, for a peaceful Europe that exports democracy and rule of law, and not primarily soldiers and war. It is about the people who are committed to work that can be done and to full employment, and who are committed to doing so in the future Constitution. It is about choosing people who are taking action to ensure that there is an active European economic policy that provides growth and employment. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Ursula Stenzel!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it is about ensuring the European social model, which is not only that one is insured against the risks of life, but also that there is access for all non-discrimination-free access to the services of general care, up to the water. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Ursula Stenzel!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you believe that representatives of the government parties – who make the policies you suffer in Austria – are the right ones to represent these interests in Europe, then choose them. If you believe that there needs to be a change, then give me a deed!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5261	The motion for a resolution is indeed long enough to be distributed. It is already distributed, is sufficiently supported and is therefore voted. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5349	I call Mr Grillitsch. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5367	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! This EU is really a big project – as we have heard several times today – for peace, freedom and security. I also say here as a representative of the rural area and of the rural families: Since accession to the EU, we have actually had predictability and planning for our farmers and for rural areas. This is important, which gives us security to continue to manage the farms in the future, in order to keep the countryside open in the future, in order to ensure services in rural areas in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have been having this for nine years now, and this proves that we and this government have made a responsible policy, because for nine years we have been able to retrieve these programmes reliably and calculated. Some of them still meant that you shouldn't join. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] What would have happened if we had not joined this EU? . We would have stood before accession negotiations with the candidate countries, to 25 percent of what we have achieved for nine years reliable and calculable. That is a responsible policy, and not a squirrel, Mr Herb! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Dr. Van der Bellen, when you say that we have a different opinion from Franz Fischler: Yes, that's true – but not in the basic trend! For politics, the French Fischler also operates in Europe, is exactly the one we have been operating in Austria for more than 15 years: the eco-social agricultural policy – economic, ecological, socially balanced, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That we are in different opinions in detail – when it comes to a reduction in premiums, that is, to cut the premium by 20 per cent, so to put it right in the heart of the rural structure! - It's clear. The result is therefore quite different from the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen! We disagree with our policy of red-green politics. We are doing tax relief programs for families and for jobs, but you want to increase the taxes – and you have proved it again yesterday! For this reason, you made a request to the EU Subcommittee here in Parliament yesterday. They want the resources of agricultural policy and rural areas to be diverted. You want, ladies and gentlemen, more bans and compulsory regulations to be imposed on farmers! We want the principle of voluntaryity here. And the summit of your policy, ladies and gentlemen: As you have referred to me in the context of the Federal Animal Protection Discussion for an Insert, I now ask you, Dr. Gusenbauer, Mr. Dr. Cap, colleagues. [[The speaker gave a newspaper synserate with the text “On 13. ==References====External links==]] This is class struggle most evil way: You show here, 13th. June is about “jobs instead of cattle. ” [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I ask you: Who do you mean, "Rindviechers"? Do you mean the farmers and farmers? Do you mean the people in rural areas? – If so, you say this openly! I'll tell you: Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5467	Mrs Lunacek. Same time of speech. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5485	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! A brief word to Mr Wittauer: They said that the Greens would not have agreed to a request from the Freeman to abolish EURATOM. You know why? . Our request was the much stronger one, so of course we agree with our own green request and not that of the liberals! That's so simple! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] To the European Constitution. (a) the peace union, which we are signing, (b) security, and only in third place did the European Constitution come. Actually, I would have expected the Austrian Chancellor to give the European Constitution the first priority in his speech and not just point 3. [[Abg. Prince: Then it is most important for you!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, it is even more surprising that you then spoke of strengthening the national parliaments. It is already in order to strengthen national parliaments, but you have not lost a word about strengthening the European Parliament – not a word! [[Abg. Wattaul: You heard that!]] This is the central concern that it is necessary to strengthen democracy at European level. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And so that you have failed to call for the strengthening of the European Parliament, Federal Chancellor, you have exposed the attitude of the ÖVP, the attitude of your federal government. They do not seem to want European democracy. They insist on national interests, only on the interests of Austria, and not on Austria to act Europeanally. You don't. So it was when you mentioned the point of security: In particular, you have talked about this and have established the context that the decline in asylum applications now means more security. – Mr Bundeskanzler, is that the populism of FPÖ, which has now taken over the ÖVP, so that you simply say: fewer asylum applications mean more security? – Mr Bundeskanzler, this is the deepest, populist FPÖ policy and not a European asylum policy! [[Call the SPÖ: Refusance!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Europe as a force of peace: Mr Klubobmann Molterer spoke of the great desire for peace among people. But our concepts differ. They rely primarily on military power, on a ceasefire, on a fortress of Europe. The Greens – and we are the only ones leading a Europe-wide campaign – are focusing on an actual peace policy with conflict prevention and conflict prevention as the first, on the involvement of women in conflict prevention and the social processes necessary for this. [[Abg. Wattaul: Populism!]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Populism, nothing else!]] We are committed to an active design of globalisation. This is also the case when it comes to limiting the power of the corporations and demanding the social and environmental responsibility of groups. Mr Molterer, we are talking about a rejection of a neoliberal economic policy and financial speculation. The government concept is one of the national power players in the government Europe. The green concept is one for European democracy – this is my final sentence, Mr President! – for a social union, for the nuclear exodus and for an actual peace policy. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] And that's what it's all about. June.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5611	Mrs Bleckmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Same time of speech. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5629	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ complains about the aggressive election campaign. If my colleague Bures has heard her speech herself, she knows what aggressive means! It seems to me that it is very unpleasant for the SPÖ to talk about the time when the sanctions existed and to really deal with their own role in connection with the sanctions. Because you just want to distract and point out other things here, and you forget in this way your activities that you did during the time of sanctions. But it is important that this is also illuminated. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For, ladies and gentlemen, the EU election is about the vote of the people on work in the European Parliament, namely: Did the Members really work for the European, for Austrian interests and are not the better Europeans there? [[Abg. Dr. One: a joyous promiseant!]] That's the point, colleague. Have they been committed to Austrian interests, have they spoken at the time of sanctions for Austria or Austria? This is the point that needs to be illuminated. That is why it is important to talk about letter bodies, because if you exhume bodies, then some additional knowledge comes to light, and that is important, as the court doctors also know. [[Abg. Oils: This is horrific!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We want to inform you about the time of the penalty. As a Freedom Party, we want to inform you about your role as a SPÖ and about the role of your candidate at that time. This candidate now recognizes this, five before twelve, also – you know, if you have read his current APA message – because he requires the establishment of a historian commission. Yes, wonderful! Five weeks ago, one week for the EU election, he also wants to inform about his activities and he writes: “I have not spoken or written a single sentence in which the sanctions were supported.” [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Yes, that's right!]] I'm just telling you two things. He said in the magazine “Future” that the measures of the EU-14 were important and correct. And he wrote and wrote in an OTS – original text, himself – on 22. Feber 2000 – your candidate for the SPÖ for the EU election – said that the orientation and philosophy of the reactions of the 14 EU countries to the government participation of FPÖ were generally correct. So he approved the sanctions. [[Call the ÖVP: That's incredible!]] Operation So you don't have a child's bearing here and don't talk about dirty dome campaigns when your candidate enters the other from one fat doll, because with this historian's commission, you'll probably finally get light into the dark about your activities and about your activities at that time. [[Abg. Ollinger: First the bodies, now the children! That's ungustical!]] And be careful that today and now you do not go back into a fat cap, because the motion for a resolution to condemn the unjust sanctions has been brought in, and...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5726	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5741	Do not step into the fat cap by not agreeing to the sanctions being condemned!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5768	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, there is no mention of this, so I am now closing the debate. We shall proceed to the votes, first of all to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Van der Bellen and the Group on Austria's clear and comprehensible views on European democracy and constitution. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion by Van der Bellen to give a sign. - That's not a majority. The application is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Großruck: The SPÖ has just considered this!]] We are the second to vote on the motion for a resolution by Spindelegger, Bösch, ladies and gentlemen on the condemnation and prevention of unfair sanctions against an EU Member State. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – The request was decided by a majority of the National Council. (E 60.) [[Abg. Scheibner: ( towards SPÖ) Not even four years after the sanctions you agree! Four years to think were not enough!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the third motion for a resolution. This is the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr. Eine, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the Intergovernmental Conference on the European Constitution. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this motion, Dr. Einm, to give an appropriate sign. – The request does not receive a majority. [[Abg. Großruck: This is God thanks to the minority!]] He is therefore rejected. We have thus completed the first or only item on the agenda “Declaration of the Federal Chancellor”. The agenda is exhausted. Request by Dr Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on clarity on the positioning of the Austrian Federal Government on European democracy and constitution (1849/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e5865	We arrive at urgent procedure for the written question 1849/J. In the meantime, it has been distributed so that a reading is unnecessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6014	It is agreed between the political groups or between the members of the presidential meeting with a view to the synchronization between the duration of the debate and the broadcast of television, that the applicant, Mr Van der Bellen, has a speech time of 20 minutes, that the competent member of the government will reply within 20 minutes, then a round of speakers per group with 8 minutes each, a round of speakers with 6 minutes each, and a statement of words per group with an expected 5 minutes – in the expectation that we will bring this to the stage by 4 p.m. I hope so! Mr Van der Bellen spoke. Speech time: 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6035	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going into the thing first. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] – I am grateful for every applause! If you have not heard so far, Mr. von der FPÖ: We, the Greens, and some colleagues of the other political groups, with the exception of you, are, among other things, actually discussing issues of the future European Constitution, the objectives of the Union. There you were mentally a biting away. [[Abg. Scheibner: The question is what comes after the “first ”!]] If in your head only these letters always circulate, then I take note of that too, but primary topic of this day, I would have hoped and expected, that is not. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you said “first ”! And then what's going on?]] If the time remains, I am quite ready to conclude by saying a few more sentences about Spindelegger's request. [[Abg. Scheibner: You voted against it!]] But only if I remain time will I first want to devote myself to the more important questions. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The more important questions: In view of the time available for such discussions, of course, we have, in principle, only 20 minutes in which to answer such a request, tried to shorten it and to focus on essential points. The four blocks that we want to cut, and in which we hope that German Chancellor Schüssel will at least have more clarity in a few points than it has been, are first of all the role of the European Parliament and European democracy, including the question of the ability to act; the second is the great question of full employment, the European Social Union, the Stability Pact; the third point is European peace policy, military policy – why did you agree in the last Intergovernmental Conference that NATO should be an indispensable basis of European defence, Mr. Federal Chancellor?, and other questions – and last but not least – and then I will start – the European nuclear exodus. Ladies and gentlemen! With this European nuclear exodus, we are really on the verge of European policy. In recent weeks, not least in the context of the development of oil prices, the nuclear lobby in Austria – no, in Austria it is thank God – the nuclear lobby in Europe has become as touching, as emboldened, as energetic as it has long been. And we must try to put an end to this drive, at least as far as the European Constitution and the EURATOM Treaty are concerned. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And since, Mr. Federal Chancellor, there are some things, some clarifications from your side are still outstanding. First point: I have long been missing a clear statement from the EIAP that the EURATOM Treaty, this promotion of the European nuclear industry, is a clear foreign body in the European internal market and is a clear distortion of competition for the benefit of the European nuclear industry. That's all right. If you have been liberal, liberal – my colleagues even say: neoliberal – you show trends here, you can show them. There has been a real distortion of competition in favour of the European nuclear industry for the next 50 years. Get out of that now! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The European Constitution, better said, in the draft Convention on the European Constitution, opens up for the first time a possibility for Member States of the Union to leave the EURATOM Treaty, let us say. It is not yet fixed everything that is necessary in this context. Will this exit now be a central issue of Austrian policy at the time of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference or, at the latest, with the Austrian Presidency in the EU at the beginning of 2006 – yes or no? I would like to add immediately: It is not only about Austria and other countries being able to get out of the EURATOM Treaty, because what I do not want and what the Greens do not want is that, although an exit option is opened up to us – without, of course, leaving the Union – but at the same time the nuclear lobby Treaty remains preserved and automatic funding from the EU budget remains. That's even the worst of all variants. You prefer to stay inside and vote against and hope to win alliance partners. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] No, it is about getting out of here and disbanding the EURATOM Treaty in a so-called revision conference de facto in order to finally put an end to this unacceptable, unbearable subsidisation of the nuclear industry, the nuclear power plant operator that has been taking place in de facto for 50 years. Federal Chancellor! As far as we are aware, in the current planning for the Austrian Presidency in the EU in the first half of 2006 – the preparations are of course running – the Austrian Presidency has not yet planned a real, perceptive, massive initiative, although we have an ambivalent situation here on the other hand: On the one hand, we have a nuclear lobby in Europe, which is as touching as rarely as before, on the other hand, in Europe of the 25 only eight states are active nuclear power plants. The others have either never had any, like Austria, or they have some and are in the process of shutting them down, or they have at least a long-term exit plan. Only eight are active here, one third of the current 25 Member States of the Union. In this context: You know, Federal Chancellor, the credibility of politics, and here in particular energy policy, is really at stake – that is, I do not mean European energy policy, but Austrian energy policy – if you, on the one hand, constantly conjure up domestically, we do everything to keep the nuclear lobby in check, and on the other hand, in the same breath of Minister Bartenstein, contrary to an EU directive de facto, the promotion of the green electricity market in Austria is to be broken. What's that? What, do you think, will replace these current or producing eco electricity volumes? Imported nuclear power volumes? Is that the policy you're striving for? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This has to be said quite clearly, as you imagine the composition of the future Austrian electricity market. Are these the nuclear imports, or is this the eco electricity sector, which, by the way, is extremely interesting in economic policy? You know – and you know that too, I would have thought, Mr Mitterlehner of the ÖVP – how many jobs, how many export opportunities in the area of biomass et cetera, et cetera could be carried out by Austria in this area. But certainly not when this market is broken by the Federal Government. The question of peace policy and NATO. Federal Chancellor! It is easy to concur on an abstract level: Of course, all in Austria will be in favour of a peaceful, peace-oriented approach to European defence and security policy. But why, and on what basis, did you agree with the newly inserted passport, which was not inside the Convention's draft Constitution, the passport that makes NATO an indispensable basis for European defence? You can stand to Nato as you like. I don't want to persuade the Germans to leave NATO. This is not our problem, but it is about neutral Austria and its role in a future European defence architecture. And this is certainly not helpful and not appropriate if, at the same time, NATO is made the basis of European defence. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is precisely preventing the neutral countries, and in particular Austria, from participating in any way in the development of this common European security policy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Let's say it again. How is it possible that on the one hand you officially comply with the neutrality policy – i.e. “-politik” – the neutrality is constitutional status in Austria, you must, of course, comply with it! – that on the one hand you want to preserve neutrality in Sunday’s speeches and, on the other, to regard NATO as the basis for European defence? [[Abg. Scheibner: But who, Mr. Scheibner?]] Austria will certainly not pay for NATO's arms efforts, will it, Mr Scheibner? This is at least the position of the Greens. I don't know what the position of the liberals is. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who pays for Europe's defence structure, Mr. Cot? You have to say that!]] I said it in my first speech: If you expect the Greens to agree to a triple of the Austrian armaments budget,as you throw out the so-called Eurofighter billions at the window at the same time – I mean, how stupid do you think we are? [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't want that either! And you don't want NATO either!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Not stupid, but inconsistency!]] You can blame us a lot, Mr Scheibner, but it is certainly not inconsistency to be against the acquisition of the Eurofighters, at the same time for the modernisation of the German army, because this purchase of these senseless pilots is exactly hindering the conversion of the German army into a meaningful new structure. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes! For security in Europe, but against NATO!]] You, as a former Minister of Defense, know this as well as I do. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, please do not regard this as a word-klaufery if we become very nervous when, in the so-called Part I of the Convention on the European Constitution, the word “full employment” is aimed at, but in Part III, something is inserted by the Intergovernmental Conference, so much so as the implementing directive of this goal of full employment, where it is not “full employment” but “high level of employment”. Federal Chancellor, these are different things! Full employment is defined differently, is a different goal from a high level of employment. A high level of employment – I am not going to do this in detail now – is also compatible with relatively high unemployment, not full employment. Everyone knows that, and I can assume that the Federal Chancellor knew that too. Nevertheless, the Intergovernmental Conference has just begun on this point with the draft Convention. And that's the question: Why? Why Make Do you notice this barn door, from the goal of full employment – I know how difficult it is to achieve; that's not why it's going to be – and to give up the same post-turning by a softer formulation de facto? This is the impression you get as a citizen: On the one hand, you also conjure up at the Intergovernmental Conference: For sure, labour market, employment, full employment, that is what we all want, but, on the other hand, where it becomes concrete, there you press to look for You immediately after softer formulations, which you then commit to nothing more. In this context, Mr Bundeskanzler, once again, on stability and growth. No one in this area is likely to argue, and last but not least, that these are important objectives, but the present pact, the so-called pact to promote stability and growth in the Union, is indeed the opposite. By chance I printed yesterday in old documents of the “time” – “the time” is known to be so large and long that one can hardly really read it – and found an article from mid-April – “Die Zeit”, the magazine – in which Nobel Prize winner Robert Solow is quoted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch]] Robert Solow is not anyone, Mr Scheuch von der FPÖ, he is a Nobel Prize-winner of economics, Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, one of the most recognized people in this field, namely growth policy, and, if I may add that, a trace of more modern than Masses and Hayek, who performed their grandeurs in the 20s and 30s of the last century. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Robert Solow is now not the only one with God who says that it may already be that this pact has had a good intention, but now, in recent years, he clearly does more damage than benefits. If we already need rules, we need different rules. We must focus on the structural deficit and not on the current deficit. We must focus on debt rates and not too much on current deficits. Just one word on this: It makes a difference whether a country with a debt ratio of 130 percent, as was the case with Italy and Greece, makes a deficit of even 2 or 3 percent of GDP, or whether this is a country with a debt ratio of 50 or 60 percent. This makes a huge difference in the long term! [[Abg. Neudeck: But not now! That was expressly decided at the time!]] But the other day – I do not know which committee it was in; I have already forgotten that in the subcommittee of the main committee or in another – you have a confirmation decision by the government parties that the current Stability Pact has to be kept on track. Only against this background does someone like Minister of Finance Grasser come to demand in Frankfurt that the Germans should have kept this up to date. I already understand – I am now well-willed – that existing contracts must be respected. But this treaty is a nonsensical contract! That is why the reform efforts must go to make a meaningful change to it in such a way that it promotes stability and growth, Mr Scheibner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] The reform must not look like a senseless treaty with additional sanctions. But that was Karl-Heinz Grasser's statement in Frankfurt. This is economic crazy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This also does not serve the economic interests of Austria – at least this argument should be drawn from you. Austria has a primary interest in the fact that the German economy is flourishing in some way. We have no interest in Germany – and this would be a consequence of the current Stability Pact – transferring some €11 billion in addition to any reserve in Brussels. Please, add 11 billion! And if the Germans don't, should they be punished with the withdrawal of the right to vote?- Oh, my God! This is seriously the presentation of the Minister of Finance? There is no one in this house, no one in the Federal Government, no one in his ministry who does not express to him this nonsense, which also affects the economic interests – I am not talking about morality, law or anything similar – that does not correspond to our economic interests? You look at me with a wound eye, Mr. Molterer, but I also expect you to make a clear statement from the Federal Government in public, the yes, that the pact is revised, that you say: [[Abg. May. Molterer: Not at all! I'm surprised that an economist can say that!]] Yes, we want stability and growth, but this is clearly not the case. [[Abg. May. Molterer: You are a professor of economics? I don't understand you saying that!]] - That's why I keep saying it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I'm a professor of economics, I'm abusing your time with this concern, but that's not a private concern. [[Abg. May. Molterer: I understand why you are no longer after this speech! Are you supposed to be an economic professor?]] The European economy will not recover in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6318	Nor can an economic professor demand that one be looked at with square eyes, Mr Van der Bellen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6339	I give Mr Molterer a certain amount of thought. It may be that today is not the right day... – No, to discuss the meaning and nonsense of the Stability Pact. [[Abg. Neudeck: For the urgents today!]] But if you do not want to listen to me on matters of this kind and then I say two more words about this motion by Spindelegger, Bösch. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Are the 20 minutes over?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You made it right now!]] It is already a chuzpe, Mr Spindelegger; I would not have expected it from you. [[Abg. Scheibner: He didn't examine you, Professor!]] You write pages about the sanction time back in 2000. I do not know how many pages of this proposal have, six or seven pages. This must be brought together, not to lose a word about how this sanction period ended. [[Abg. Rädler: Who started it?]] There have been so-called three ways from Finland, Spain and Germany. These have written a report. [[Abg. Lens: We all know that!]] And with this report the story was done. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: How gracious!]] I recommend this report to all of us, I recommend it to the journalists, I recommend it to the general public to read back and forth. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: It has been a naughtiness!]] There it is also explained how the history of the whole was. The “three wise men” report concludes that the sanctions should be terminated because they have now become counterproductive. The FPÖ as the occasion of this sanction is called the “right-wing populist party with radical elements”. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The SPÖ has still not gotten it!]] It is elsewhere referred to as “right-wing populist party with extremist expression”. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. (Muhammad), this is a naughty thing!]] And the same case that Haider has now taken up again with the assumption of the criminal land treachery by Mr Swoboda, was already there at that time. At that time, the goals – I don't know anymore – were Voggenhuber, Gusenbauer and all the possible people who were threatened by Haider with prison sentences.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6488	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6504	This is my final sentence, Mr President: In this case, I recommend that you read again in the report of the “three wise men”. [[Abg. Neudeck: The rest phase is over!]] There's everything right in there, you don't need a historian's commission anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6555	For the purposes of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Federal Chancellor shall speak. It is also planned that the speaking time may be 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6573	High house! Mr President. Mr Deputies and Klubobmann Professor Van der Bellen, I would like to thank you very much for this special meeting and for the opportunity to present in 20 minutes the positions of Austria, which are known, especially in front of a wider audience, which is now listening to and listening to us on television. The first point, in order to correct this, because it is in the statement of reasons, is that the government would have “screwd” before a statement to Parliament that we would almost have gone to Brussels without voting the position with the Austrian National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Yes, right!]] That is, of course, completely wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Completely right!]] No, Professor, let's stick to the truth! A main EU committee has long been agreed where, of course, before the meeting in Brussels, all positions – at this time the proposals of the Irish and the Presidency are on the table – are precisely on the point and the emphasis. We would, of course, be very pleased – I say now; we have not yet discussed this – if we then have a standing committee, a standing committee, accompany the discussion in the European Council by all four political groups and, hopefully, have a broad consensus that we ultimately need. So there's no reason for excitement! Nevertheless, thank you for the opportunity to speak here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So that I don't get back in time, I'll do it the other way around. I will immediately answer the questions and then take the liberty, if I still have time to go into the debate a little bit. Question 1: You're asking where we differ from the Convention. I am in favour of what I said in the previous debate: The Convention has produced a very good result – but one that needs to be improved. That was our common view, please. This has been the subject of several meetings and discussions. Now the question: improving or watering? – I will try to mention some very concrete points that are an improvement. First: As regards legal protection, there was a gap with regard to the binding decisions of the European Council, which could now be closed by our Austrian strong activity. – A real improvement. Secondly, the introduction of minority protection. This was a Hungarian concern which we strongly supported. That has been inserted. Further: The principle of equality between men and women among the values of the European Union. Professor, I think this is an improvement. I hope you agree. Thirdly, There are also provisions in the Convention's draft on General Provision. This was very important, that was an Austrian proposal: We have achieved – and this was not clear at the outset – that the competence of the Member States to provide these municipal services, to give orders or to finance them remains completely unaffected. – A great success for us! No watering, Professor Van der Bellen! Further: There is consideration, for the first time mentioned in the European Constitution, of mountain areas and border regions. This was an Austrian proposal in European regional policy. I hope this is a subject that you will all agree to. Full employment, Professor, has remained completely untouched. What the Convention has proposed as an objective has remained untouched. A new Belgian proposal was introduced, but we supported the introduction of a social clause, which aims to give priority to all policies which have the impact on the high level of employment and social protection. We have actually supported this with our full heart. – This is not an irrigation against what you have claimed here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A number of countries – including us – have rejected the proposal of a legislative council. I know you were for that, but I really have serious concerns as a practitioner. I am in favour of the fact that the trade ministers, who are also responsible to the national parliaments and Parliament here and who also have the professional competence, make decisions in these Councils of Trade Ministers – and not any head office editor who is sent to Brussels and has no connection to the concrete, real practice. That's my opinion. We weren't alone with that: This has been borne by an overwhelming majority of Member States, and this, I believe, is accepted by everyone today. Now on the delicate issues I could not do at first, on the transition to a qualified majority and on the weighting of votes. We wanted more majority voting in foreign policy, tax policy and social policy. I mean, that would have been very good. But I ask you back: Do we want a compromise or do we want to play hardliner now? Do we want to create a constitution that you rightly agreed here, including Caspar One and many other speakers, or do we now justament want to address all the concerns that other Member States have, to wipe over, to say, no, then there is no European Constitution at all? – That’s how it is understood. Not that I suddenly respect our goal less, but a certain degree of compromise is part of it. The issue of voting weightings now arises. We are – this is our common position – for what is the double increase in Switzerland, for example: We need the approval of the population and the approval of the stands. In the European Constitution, this would be the majority of the population and the majority of the Member States, 50 : 50. That would be ideal. The Convention has made a compromise. He said: 50 percent of the population were made up of individuals and 60 percent had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or Both have not worked – I say this quite openly here. My logical position is still the same parity. We, the like-minded countries, have said: Well, at the end of the day, we can move in an overall package in which the Commission, the team presidency, is the voting weight, but we do not want the differences between the state and the population criterion to grow too big. I would suggest that we discuss this issue again in parallel with the Constitutional Conference in the days of or from me, because I do not want to do this on my own. It is very important that we take seriously the direction of many other medium-sized or smaller Member States, that we have an institutional package here, in particular, which preserves the equality of Member States, equal rotations and the equal opportunity to take up an important position. That is an important principle. I believe that I hope you will agree in this area too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Well, in my view, it is also an improvement that we – I believe that was, a mistake, but it has come into our mind – have the price stability or monetary stability, as has always been the case in the objectives of the common currency, as well as the employment situation, full employment or growth policy. This is very important from my point of view. On question 2: As already mentioned: We have voted in favour of a transition to qualified decisions as far as possible. We were always very integration-friendly and offensive; openly, an EU of the 25 must also reduce blockade opportunities. Of course, financial perspective, budget, constitutional changes and military matters remain issues of unanimity, but we also accept the red lines – the British now call it: pure lines – some Member States. Interesting is the following: Not the neoliberals block, for example, the departure from unanimity regarding taxes, but the well-known socially democratically-led countries such as Sweden or Great Britain! So it's not quite as far away as you claimed here. Question 3: Yes, I am for the legally binding inclusion of the Fundamental Rights Charter. We have always called for this, which is a central element in bringing Europe closer to the citizens and at the same time reaching the acquittal before the European Court of Justice. Question 4: We are not apart on this point either. We have always supported the rights of the European Parliament and the upgrading of Parliament. Question 5: The referendum is a non-starter, let's say it openly. Eight countries have announced that they will carry out national votes. I have always proposed a way out – I have also discussed this with Tony Blair and others – whether it would be a way out if, one day after the national ratification of this new European Constitution, all of Europe would hold a referendum or a referendum. So far, there have been a lot of benevolence in the face, but no speech that this is accepted in any way. We will see what this will be like in Brussels. On question 6: I have already given an opinion on the social clause. There is no intervention in the Convention text at all. – On the contrary: The Convention text has remained completely undisputed by us where it is important to you. Question 7: I have already answered the question of taxation. Question 8: The Stability and Growth Pact is an important issue. I do not share your view that the Stability and Growth Pact for Europe was poor or bad for Austria. On the contrary: If you want a common currency, you also need common rules of play, you also need stability, which is serious and which all adhere to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Think about what it would mean if we had a common currency, but the twelve Member States did not adhere to it with two or three sustainable and consciously! Interests for all of us would rise, including inflation. Any small house builder, anyone who gets a loan, would be fine. We would have no way to counter it at all. One can discuss how, but a professor of economics – and you know, I very much appreciate you – I believe that a common currency also requires a common budget discipline, a common, coordinated economic and growth strategy and, above all, credible directives that must be respected and controlled. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: But others!]] Now is the point – you have to say that as well –: The Stability and Growth Pact is not perfect. I said this here, I said it publicly, I said it in Brussels, in Germany, I said it in Vienna; there are no differences in my opinion. We have a problem, because we have set it up for three years. No one originally assumed that there might even be a longer phase of economic stagnation. Therefore, it would be wise to take a more flexible time span. I have always criticized the fact that over the last three years, Eurostat has tightened the rules of the game without any political discussion. We estimate that about half a percent to about three-quarters of the increase in the rules of the game was only achieved by Eurostat. That doesn't make any sense at all. I am also against the fact that we are politically concerned about whether criteria are being met or not. In my view, not the way to deny voting rights for a country is the right way to propose an automatic, controlled by the Commission, which is practically deprived of political will-building. The final sentence is as follows: I think it is very important that we make a link, a bracket, between growth and jobs and stability criteria. We are a very stable country, we have the best employment data, and so are those countries that have adhered to it. The worst labour market data have those who have violated the Growth and Stability Pact. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the question 9: Now on the question of the assistance guarantee, Article 40(7). Professor, I do not know who consulted you here, but he should really read the text. They criticise, we accepted the indispensable role of NATO. Can I read the text? – That’s not true at all, it doesn’t happen at all. I don't know who told you that. In the text, Article 40(2) reads: The Community, the Union, respects the obligations of certain Member States which see their joint defence in NATO. – Of course, that’s her decision! That's none of our business. [[Abg. Gahr: (to the Green) Blamabel!]] And Article 40(7) states: When implementing possible closer cooperation, the participating States shall cooperate closely with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. – So between a cooperation that is of course natural today – also for us; we are partners for peace in NATO, like all other neutrals or non-Allieds – and what you have said here, there is a very, very big difference. That is why this commitment to solidarity and security is absolutely in order. She's also being carried by us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Question 10: You know that today's Constitution, Article 23f, ensures that Austria can take part in the tasks of the so-called Petersberg missions not only in the measures of foreign policy but also in the full. In each case, we determine what we are doing. Is that political, is it military, is it economic? That's what we're talking about. We have also explicitly taken into account in the common strategy, drawn up by Solana, that everything depends on the United Nations Security Council's monopoly of violence. By the way, this passus is very massively based on Austrian operations. I therefore believe that this is a very reasonable proposal. Now on nuclear energy, questions 11 to 13: I am a little surprised at the swivelling of some here, because from April 2003, I have a common text by Members Berger, Eins, Farnleitner, Rack, Tusek et cetera, where we have jointly proposed not to take out the Treaty, but actually to better integrate the rules for parliamentary participation, procedural provisions and so on, to carry out the transfer of EURATOM research to the normal research programme et cetera. I personally think it is wrong if we give the impression that we should not have any say in this House at all. I am in favour of Austria's insistence on the greatest possible security measures. That must be our interest! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The EURATOM revision conference was called for by all parliamentary parties in the Convention. Unfortunately, this desire has not been met. And something very important: The Austrian Foreign Minister, together with the Green Foreign Minister, Dr Joseph Fischer, has launched an initiative that is now almost presented an initiative by interested states. This is and of course is strongly supported by us. Question 14: As far as eco-electric production is concerned, I have to say quite openly: No one is thinking of chilling or crushing eco-electric production; quite the contrary. It will, of course, be a matter of setting weights and promotion heights, or of redefining them, but it is not in any way a question of endangering the top spot that Austria is taking here in any way. Allow me to make a few comments on issues raised in the debate. The first topic: Water. I would remind the SPÖ that it has been the Graenitz Members who have literally said in similar criticisms that water is at risk: It's completely wrong that our drinking water is at risk. – I should like to remind you that it is literally stated in the European Waters Directive: ‘water is not... Commercial goods’, like any other, ‘but an inherited property that needs to be protected’. I should like to remind you that, with the votes of all of us in the European Parliament, it was decided not to liberalise water supply in terms of drinking water. Therefore, please: Let us not frighten people, but let us take their fear with a good policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Second issue: The criticism was that Austrian government members do not always attend Council meetings. . I should like to point out that of the 15 cuts of 70 or 80 Council meetings, five were in the time of government in the spring of last year when it was about to conduct coalition negotiations and to form a government. Everyone will understand that the priority has been. In addition, two budget councils come where almost always the ambassadors are present, because all of this has been pre-negotiated for a long time. In addition, three fishing councils were added – and that Austria is not a big power with a high sea fleet, that is probably even known to you. Therefore: Stop it! We were always there on the important topics and have been working for our people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Last point. – Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever claims that Austria has nothing to talk about or has a problem to be heard, I would like to give this a few things to consider: The European President of all the Chambers of Commerce is an Austrian. The European Chairman of all 20 million small and medium-sized enterprises is an Austrian member of the European Union. We have one of 13 personalities who is now reviewing the Lisbon strategy in the high group of personalities: this is Mr Vergestnich. We have one out of seven directors in the European Central Bank. For ten years, our Commissioner has managed the largest and probably most difficult place in the European Commission. We had excellent professionals in the Convention with Farnleitner, with one, with Bösch, with Voggenhuber, who brought a little further there. We can look back on a successful EU Presidency in 1998, where negotiations with the enlargement candidates have started, which have now been completed, and we are now preparing for a hopefully just as successful Presidency in 2006. We presented a first-class cultural capital with Graz last year. We were the lawyer of enlargement and the founder of the regional partnership. We have put important suggestions into the constitutional debate. And whoever is still claiming, we are not going to hear, either he has not fully understood the functioning of Europe or he is making us smaller than we are – and that is particularly disturbing to me! – or he should send better people to the European institutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6811	We are now going into the debate. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. Speech time: 8 minutes. The following speakers also have 8 minutes each. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e6839	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to comment on some of the answers that the Federal Chancellor has given us to our questions. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: very convincing!]] First: Mr Bundeskanzler, you have rightly spoken about the time available for the debate on the future of the European Constitution in the main committee. Yeah, right! But even your President Khol has publicly complained that there is no plenary debate on the future of the European Union, and that is why we have given you the opportunity to do so with this special meeting. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the SPÖ, as well as on the demonstration of Deputies Dr. Khol, Dr. Stummvoll and Mag. Molterer.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Today! Now!]] Not today, Mr Khol, but in a public opinion on whether we are discussing enough about the European Union. I'd like to find out. But now to your answers, Federal Chancellor. As far as the derogations from the Convention's proposal that you have listed are concerned, I can only take a few out of my mind due to the short period of time. If you say that in terms of full employment, the Convention's draft would not have been affected by the objective of full employment, I would like to say: Those who say that in concrete policies only the high level of employment needs to be taken into account beyond the full employment goal, assumes that high unemployment is still free to interpret – and I think that is absolutely wrong! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You have also knocked on the shoulder that you have taken the question of price stability into the objectives. Mr. Federal Chancellor, I remember the morning discussion: The first thing you thought about the European Union was the euro. Now it is price stability. Anything else – be it full employment, whether it be social rights, whether it be environmental issues, especially EURATOM – falls down the representatives of the ÖVP – but above all you! – late or not at all. [[Abg. Elf wall: Wrong!]] That is, I think, a bad signal for the Intergovernmental Conference. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To your note regarding the so-called Red Lines or Purple Lines of the individual states and that one of course cannot skip them: Mr Bundeskanzler, if you sum up all the Purple Lines, that is, all the essential issues that each country brings in for itself, then we have the blockade of European policy, and also in policy areas that are very important to us. Mr Bundeskanzler, I ask you to bear in mind that the exchange of different interests, which usually takes place at Intergovernmental Conferences, is not acceptable to parliamentarians and cannot be accepted. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would, however, like to focus on two issues. One is the link between the so-called structured cooperation – is military core Europe – and what the NATO Connex is. You brought two quotations. I'm going to bring you a third one that makes it clear where the intentions are. The joint proposal explicitly contains – I quote – the following: ‘The commitments and cooperation in this The area remains in line with the commitments entered into under NATO,” – as far as it is, so well – “the States that belong to it continue to be the foundation of their collective defence and” – and now it comes! – “the instance of which is the realization.” That is: military action under the roof of NATO, and it is unacceptable for me as an Austrian and as a fighter for a peace policy, to see it as the highest principle. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's wrong!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you say in your interviews abroad: Europe is doing something in peace, and the war is doing NATO for us!, then it is a distribution of roles in global security policy, which is completely wrong and pushes Europe out of the important, central discussions over global security. [[Abg. Scheibner: You want it objectively and present unbearable lies here!]] Finally, I come to the issue of EURATOM. To this end, Mr Bundeskanzler, you have remained guilty of a number of answers to our questions. In connection with EURATOM, they call the greatest possible safety for nuclear power plants your most important and central objective. Yeah, right. The safeguarding of the nuclear power plants currently under way is an important and central objective. However, the current directive on this is so weak that any still so unsafe nuclear power station under it can ‘slip through’. Mr Bundeskanzler, this is unacceptable for us! This is not a policy towards nuclear exodus, but a legitimization of all that is “rounding” in this regard and at our borders is an unthinkable threat to health and safety. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They have not answered the question, what happens if the revision conference is not enforceable. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's answered!]] You have not answered the question of how you imagine the process in connection with an atomic exodus. Mr Bundeskanzler, here you remain guilty of the answers. You feel that I fear that the wrong colleagues from your conservative group are committed to continuing to rely on nuclear energy. A final word: You rejected the legislative council. This is something very abstract: There is a separate Council that decides publicly and where people in Europe can finally see who shows on which subject and who leaves the hand below. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's it now!]] That was the goal: We are talking about transparency! Federal Chancellor! With the rejection of this public office, who is really in favour of the decisive councils, you have worked against a very central principle for us. I am particularly sorry because people in Europe have the right to know what is happening in the European Councils. But you want to refuse this knowledge, and that is a great political mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7014	Mr Lopatka is next speaker. Same time of speech: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7044	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the kind welcome from this page, but you must have noticed since the German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel answered the question: [[towards SPÖ]] There is really a strong lawyer for Austria in this Europe, and this is our Federal Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] There you were quite speechless! [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Now you're awake again, ladies and gentlemen, but you've needed relatively long until you've recovered a little. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, this debate has also shown a second – and it has shown very clearly – that: When it comes to the future of Europe, there is no second party that is as strong as the Austrian People's Party as the Austrian People's Party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A party not only lives on its programme – and in this context I would also like to refer to the electoral programmes of all the parties represented in Parliament; since you will be amazed because you probably do not know your electoral programme – a party also lives on top of the personalities. [[Call at SPÖ:4 : 0]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: We want to talk about the Constitution!]] It is not a coincidence that today the clubman of the Greens has been praised in the highest tones by Commissioner Fischler – and he has always been the Federal Party's member of the Austrian People's Party. It's not a coincidence. Nor is it a coincidence that today, in an interview called Erhard Busek as a possible EU Commissioner, the SPÖ's top candidate for the European Parliament, Swoboda. This shows the line of the Austrian People's Party: Busek, Alois Mock – even the “Mister Europe” in Austria – and now our Federal Chancellor. We stand here in a clear tradition that does not have a party in this house that nobody else has! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen shakes his head.]] Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, because you're shaking your head like this: You know that when you got through Alois Mock 15 years ago in the then great coalition, that's then 17th. This application has been sent to Brussels on July 15, 1989 – and that has been 15 years! – at the time, had a completely different view of Europe – and especially your top candidate! – as today. But it is good that you have made a change in this regard. We really have a tradition here – I could go back to the fifties – and this is also evident in today's constitutional debate, which we have here: We have very clear ideas about what this European Constitution should look like, and we have held this in the Europe-Manifest on the 2004 European elections. We want this common constitution. We believe that it is crucial for a Europe close to the citizen. We want a Europe – and that is very important to us! – in which only those areas are regulated at European level which cannot be regulated so well at national, regional or local level. That is a very essential principle for us, and it is also to be understood from this point of view that our Chancellor is, in particular, such a vehement fighter for the rights of the smaller and medium-sized countries in Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want equal treatment for all, whether large or small, and any development towards a special position for larger countries in this Europe certainly does not agree with us! This subsidiarity in the enlarged Union is far more than a lip commitment to us, and we have therefore also fought for the National Council to have the option of obtaining a right of action as well. This Europe will only work if it is also carried along by the national parliaments and if we are involved accordingly. And now I have thought – because all that I have now told you can be read at the ÖVP's European manifesto – it certainly also has the SPÖ's ideas on the European Constitution, and I have read the SPÖ's programme: once, twice, three times. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I have read it three times, and do you know what I have found on the European Constitution? - Half a sentence! I found half a sentence, ladies and gentlemen. And that is probably too little for this great project Europe! That's probably too little, that's not a future programme! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wattaul.]] I have also read the programs of the other parties. [[Abg. Mandak: You're a read-only man!]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] It's interesting: It was requested by Klubobmann Van der Bellen today. And who do I see in the Green Programme at the beginning? – Voggenhuber, opposite Lichtenberger. The Hope Mandate could be a third. Well, there's waiting – who's the third? The third is Karl-Heinz Grasser. [[The speaker shows the appropriate page on which a caricature by Federal Minister Mag. Weed can be seen.]] So much for the nature and programme work of the Greens in this context, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Read! Not just looking at pictures!]] Ladies and gentlemen! For us, this European Constitution is also so important because, in an enlarged Europe, in a Europe of 25 clear rules of the game, clear rules of the Constitution are of great importance and great importance. When it comes to these clear rules of play, I am at the point where the SPÖ of course has problems because it is also stated here that our water is safe. [[The speaker shows a large displayboard.]] After all, the mayor of Vienna, Häupl, signed this. If you do not believe us, you will at least believe your President of Vienna, confirmed with his signature, the Mayor of Vienna, the President of the Municipal Federation, who also welcomed the conduct of our Members in broadcasts when it comes to protecting our water! – Ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer possible at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So that my speech doesn't take too long, let me end with a quote from a man who knows social democracy very well. He has been a member of you for decades, highly regarded member, although he has once been called a sausage by Federal Chancellor Kreisky: Günther Nenning. After “Hainburg” he then discovered sympathy for the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Don't play with our water!]] – I don’t play with our water, but I’ll tell you what Günther Nenning is giving you today. Günther Nenning says: "Oh, my dear Sozis, now there is the curse of evil deeds. There's nothing to do with it. At Sanctions times, you were for sanctions and against Austria. In election times, where everyone is looking for semi-trail themes, this comes back to the tapet. You are sorry, but it is right for you." This wise judgment by Günther Nenning is certainly a good decision-making aid for many, ladies and gentlemen, the 13. June. Believe Günther Nenning! He has the experience and wisdom of a long life.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7244	The next item is the report by Mr Arbitrator.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7285	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to hide that today's first statement, Mr President of the Federal Chancellor, has also liked me well and that it has been beneficially different from the last days and weeks, in which the subject of the election campaign has been a misinterpreted yellow letter, which one thought could be used as a dirty dome campaign. [[Demonstratetive applause with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Khol]] Today, we once again had the hope of what is important: a clear common Austrian line, a European policy of the Federal Government, which is not on its own, but, together with all the political groups in this House, which is being developed in the countries, not in the dark coalition chamber, but in front of the public. Mr Lopatka has now almost managed to reverse these expectations, in any case to dampen them, but perhaps, if you are in this House for a longer time, you will also be able to give a speech in which you do not go to everyone. Because at the end of your speech you have quoted the experiences of a long life: One of my experiences is that you should not trust those who always see everything bad only with the others and all the good only with themselves! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I believe that the question of the Greens and today's sitting have their right. It is true that we have often discussed the details of the Constitution, but the great debates here in the House – if at all – only took place when the opposition requested a debate on these issues. Now I don't want to talk about the very big questions: What is the future of the EU? Should one day become a state of its own? All these questions would probably be too far to discuss them with the last finality. Perhaps a plenary debate is not the right place. But I suspect that these major issues have not been discussed, because there are points among them where the two government parties do not agree. My impression was: All the questions where one of the two parties was closer to the opposition than to the other party in the coalition were not discussed. It has been avoided that they should be addressed because one does not want to discuss issues where the public and Parliament recognize that there is not a really uniform opinion here, but even a covered dispute within the coalition itself. But not many debates have also taken place on the issues which are very urgent at the moment. Why are these signs so necessary? They are necessary because, in fact, the issue of economic policy – and I would like to say: the wrong economic policy in the EU – and the question of the lack of employment policy are in the foreground. It is not true, as Mr Spindelegger said, that we want these issues to be decided more closely only in the EU: Where decisions can already be made at European level, they should fall in the right direction and not in the wrong direction, as is the case at present. That is why we address these questions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or: Why is it so embarrassing for you to talk about the water and the protection of the water? – Because this is a good example of how wrong it is to liberalize without restrictions within the EU, and because that is a point where you have not come across our precepts and have not followed them either. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Oh yes!]] In this area, there is a manco of Austrian attitude, and that is why you do not want these questions to be addressed. Or: Anti-atomic policy, which is also a good example. Here we only heard a few weeks ago from the government bank: We have achieved in the EU that everyone can have his or her attitude. Austria will be allowed to have no nuclear power plants. Austria is permitted not to endanger the others potentially. The other is allowed to have nuclear power plants. – This reminds me of a new version of the old sentence of the same right of all to sleep under a bridge. This is the policy we do not want to allow us to stay with what we think is right, but we also want something to be achieved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] These are the points where we believe that something must be done, which is also necessary in terms of the Constitution. Of course, we can use fewer lines in our programme, Mr Lopatka, because we are more committed to the draft Convention than you want to amend many of its points. Those points which we want to highlight have been raised in a motion for a resolution two or one hour ago in the House, but you have not talked about them, you have not responded to them. You just sat down in the vote and said no to that. This is not the form we imagine! We believe that in Europe it is necessary to find new forms for the content and methods to achieve them. The old policy of one-sided government – opposition no longer works in Europe. There's a networked policy. There you need a policy of different ways. That is where, even if you treat them badly here in Parliament, you need the opposition, so that in other countries it also makes for the content of Austria's mood. You need the public in other countries. That's where you need the NGOs, you need international interest groups and much more. The new European policy, which is not the policy of “speed kills” and “opposition is only involved if one needs its voices”, is the new European policy, which is a truly common policy where one tries to achieve goals together in different ways. That is the task, we believe, also for Austria in this context! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My last sentence: President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: If these people don't suit you, you'll have to choose better people there. – I may replicate in the same pointed form, Mr Bundeskanzler: Very much, but that will be possible only after the next election!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7386	The next item is the report by Mr Bösch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7405	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today the urgent question of the Greens. We are happy to discuss European issues with you. We are quite constructive of European development, but we also want to be the critical element in this development, and I believe that this is also a good mixture, not only here in the National Council and in the public, but also in the Federal Government. That is why I believe that the freedom of action with the coalition partner is also a right thing. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Van der Bellen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! With this urgent request, you have reaffirmed the contradiction that I have been able to reveal this morning: On the one hand, you want us to agree to the draft Constitutional Treaty without if and but, on the other hand, you ask the Federal Government to enter into concrete negotiations here. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: On the basis of the contract!]] I give you the right to negotiate the Federal Government with regard to this draft Constitutional Treaty, Mrs Lichtenberger. Therefore, you should not devalue this in the preamble to your urgent request with terms such as "national interests" or, as your EU delegates always do, as "cow trade". Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens do not seem to want the national level to represent its interests in negotiations at European level. That's weird! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are free to see that the Federal Government will once again clarify this draft Treaty with regard to Austrian interests during the forthcoming government negotiations at European level. That was always the idea of us liberals within the framework of the Federal Government, but also in the public debate. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition to many good structures, this new draft Constitution now includes – Mrs Lichtenberger, we were both involved – the Charter of Citizens' Rights, the Single Constitutional Text, which will make everything much more clear, the clarification of responsibilities, the definition of the subsidiarity principle and the control of it at national level, the general provision - the Chancellor could already address it - the employment and price stability as the objective of the European Union's economic policy. All these areas are the content of the Constitutional Treaty, and we welcome this, which is no question at all. Nevertheless, there are elements in which you still have to watch out as an Austrian to say it quite shortened. In this context, we have called for each country to have a Commissioner entitled to vote, and I think it is right for the Federal Government to go into these negotiations again with this call. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Failed!]] This is not already a failure, Mr Cap, but it is a call that remains true. We will see how the negotiations are going, and we will see how this demand in connection with the others can be assessed within the framework of a package. We have also clearly said that we do not want this form of presidency, but rather a rotation that makes it possible for smaller countries to preside over the EU. We also wanted to maintain the principle of unanimity in many areas. That's very important! On important issues, especially constitutional amendments, unanimity must be maintained, we must not simply allow the principle of majority voting to enter these areas in such a way. In many areas, this is to be done, in many, majority decisions will be useful, that is not at all a question, even in the field of the common foreign and security policy, when it comes to declarations, but not when it comes to military intervention. When it comes to military intervention, we want to maintain unanimity, and I am glad that the Federal Chancellor has also confirmed it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The weighting of votes, the co-determination, the basic co-determination of the EU Parliament on essential issues: All these are things that are important and that we support, and I think that will come. Ladies and gentlemen! The EURATOM question and also the water question are something you have already stressed in several speeches here today. As far as the water question is concerned, Mr Schieder, there is already something to say: I remember exactly that when we made this question on the subject – I think we were still in the opposition at the time – we were the target of your mockery and your mockery. At that time, we liberals have already recognized the associated dangers and raised this issue or raised it at national level. Recognizing these dangers, this federal government has taken the right steps at European level in recent years, and we can say today that it is assured that the power to decide on water resources will remain at national level. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will also have to respect security and defence policy, the solidarity clause. Yes, who is going to be against the fact that if there is a terrorist attack in any Member State of the Union, the others are rushing to help with the opportunities they can make available? No one will be able to do anything about it! The same applies to closer and structured cooperation. In these two areas of common defence and the use of armed forces within the meaning of the European Union, there is only a danger that your colleague Pilz will carry out his approach. Mr Pilz wants a professional army at European level, which is being used in European terms and needs to be held up for any interests anywhere in the world. Ladies and gentlemen! We don't want to do that! We liberals want sovereign Austrian armed forces, which are sufficiently equipped and whose use is decided here in Austria and not somewhere at European level! This decision on the use is also about deciding what resources will be used for it. That is why this horrendous act of increasing the defence budget, which you, Mr Van der Bellen, have outlined here, is entirely up to the hair. You can be sure, even after the outcome of the Federal Government Reform Commission, security policy will be a responsible person not only in Austria, but also at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7491	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7509	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Not least on the basis of your statement from the morning, but also on the basis of the debate here and now, a satisfactory intermediate meeting may be held: It is in fact being discussed in a large part of the debate on European policy. That was the meaning of the Greens' request for special sittings, the meaning of the Greens' urgents, and I am not saying that you have today, in your statement, brought in some aspect that we really had to miss so far in the debate. Nevertheless, it has been reserved for your party secretary Lopatka to step out of here and jump into the fat-nap like before. Mr Lopatka! Things fit together as far as possible when you browse a green election program that meets Karl-Heinz Grasser and, apparently in the absence of certain skills, really consider him to be the third candidate of the Greens. I do not know where this is located in the brain, perhaps with the stem cells responsible for humor, but if that is already missing, then you should at least limit yourself to the sober sequence of letters, because there is a stone and clear reading in the text, which is really meant, and that is exactly what is at the heart of this debate today. That's because there's... [[Abg. May. Molterer: caricativ?]] Of course, this is caricatative! – There stands, so to speak, as a dissuasive example of the discussion: Neoliberalism or social Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: That's wrong!]] That is also a part of this debate here. There's another one yelling: That's wrong!, he's got it before him, and it's different. That's incredible! [[Abg. May. Molterer: It's not inside!]] They will also invent a letter. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But the matter is serious enough, we obviously have different points of view – that is right! – with regard to the questions: What about full employment? What is the question of fundamental social rights? What about the safe provision of general life? If, then, do you already keep up with national or local levels if you like? But how is this reversed because you too have caricaded a bite, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, partly you, Mr. Federal Chancellor Schüssel, with “Europe of the Group”, “Neoliberalism”? Is all of this junk ghosts painted completely unnecessarily by the opposition on the wall? – I mean, that's not so necessary and wrong. What is meant by ‘Europe of the Groupes’, Mr Klubobmann Molterer, because you mentioned this? [[Abg. May. Molterer: For Austria?]] – But not that the corporations must be bad if they create jobs – as you explained by us. It's about something completely different. The issue is that the sovereignty of politics and politics as such is increasingly at risk of being left behind by certain, very limited interests. The same is true of your government policy in Brussels! Finally, we are dealing with this issue. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The topic here is also: What does the Austrian Federal Government represent in the negotiations in Brussels, and not least now when it comes to the European Constitution? It is a great difference whether full employment is intended as a goal, whether it is intended to continue to be targeted, and what the corresponding instruments are. What are the corresponding instruments? We have on the one hand the reference to the highest level of employment. – I don’t even think it’s inside, but it’s just inside: a high level of employment. – This is too little if the coordinated policy does not have to lead to the full employment goal being achieved. I agree with you, Mr Bundeskanzler, on the following point: The question of a coordinated financial and economic policy is important! We have noticed this several times. Only: The point is: There is a defined strict monetary policy, which is monetary union per se, very restrictive in its investment, and there is a so-called Stability and Growth Pact, which also works restrictively, because it is very unwise – as many economists confirm. But now is not a talk about a coordinated economic and fiscal policy, but the talk is about a mere dumping and stupid regulation, and that defends you, although it does not benefit, but only does damage. If you continue to defend this, then you are in the process of keeping Europe on track of growth and sustainable development, rather than making sense and flexibility to the economic and social problems that are actually happening – you will not want to keep this to yourself! – to respond. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Just because one goes here and imposes a restrictive programme, namely the content that actually acts as a barrier to growth, which actually restricts social policy, and then overtitles the whole with “stablety and growth pact” - either for bad conscience or for reasons of camouflage and deception, as is unfortunately very common in this industry, and also in Brussels – although one should call it actually stagnation pact and suffocation, it is not better. The whole leads to stagnation and the stifling of upswing trends in the economy. That's the point! That is why we are very disappointed. In addition, your representatives here yesterday in the House defended the whole thing again. It does not help, either, if you oppose the proposals already made by the finance ministers here today, such as the withdrawal of voting rights et cetera, which are probably due to various ambitions, because the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as a whole, has defended the Minister of Finance here in Parliament. I can inform you of the following, Mr Bundeskanzler: Yesterday, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr. Grasser said that he had made a very good point. Please, Mr Bundeskanzler, agree with Mr. Intern of the Industrial Union and the World Bank, who is allowed to “turn around” here on the government bank! But you have to solve this problem!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7612	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7637	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! We are just ahead of the EU election – and we are Europe! “We are Europe” means that it is very, very painful to read every day in the newspaper, there is a high degree of frustration, especially within the youth, and the boys do not want to go to the choice. We of the ÖVP were not in vain always for Europe in the past and have taken a path towards Europe's unification, because we knew that Europe is not something that is happening somewhere in Brussels, but rather a lively, living process in which we should all actively participate, want to participate and participate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We are Europe, and Europe's youth has earned more – and therefore I am a little disappointed by the Greens – as small cartoons on election posters. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: The bowl is not...!]] The youth in Europe is waiting for what we also want to do with election advertising: Peace in Europe – but also in the rest of the world. We're ready to work for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Youth in Europe is expected to be education. [[Abg. Oils: Yeah, right! But not the walker's senses!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: The Gehrers don't know yet!]] That is why we invest here in Austria and invest in Europe in education, in education, in our universities, in science and research – because we are Europe, and with us Europe has the future! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] We didn't give safety here for nothing. [[The speaker referred to the panel on the speaker's desk.]] – What gives man safety? Security is stability, also economic stability, and job creation. We Austrians know how. We do not have the slightest unemployment in Europe for nothing. We want to share our knowledge of how this can work with Germany and other friends in Europe. We want to cooperate that it will be better across Europe, in Austria even better than now and in other countries than it is with us today. That is how we can give security in Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our youth now knows well enough not to fall into any fear traps. We've already talked about the water today, that's safe. [[Intervocations and ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Our youth needs a vision of a living Europe. Our youth needs a future with stability and a way to rely on. Our Federal Chancellor has always given us such a path on all points. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you, in connection with the constitutional debate, that governments and also the EU Council are democratically elected Heads of Government and Foreign Ministers. They too have a legitimacy at democratic level! But there is no democracy without democrats! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's right!]] The most important thing at a time when people are still dying close to our borders for their free choice sometime in their lives is that we do not feel the right to vote as a daunting duty, but that we are all working together – and I am appealing to the young people in Austria – on our Europe, that we are going to vote and that we are shaping our future ourselves – we are Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7756	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is next spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7781	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! In the European Union, 454 million people live, 232 million of them women. That's more than 50 percent. Of course, all today's issues that have been dealt with so far also concern more than 50 percent of women, but none of you – including you, Federal Chancellor – refers to the situation of women in Europe, in particular the situation of women on the labour market. [[Abg. Neudeck: The women are with us!]] This is a particularly important issue for us Social Democrats, namely women and full employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the employment situation of women in Austria is very bad, especially the employment situation of young women, women with young children. This is not only what we are saying about the Social Democrats, but also what the European Commission is saying in its recent report and the OECD in the outcome of an investigation carried out by it. The EU Commission emphasises that – and I may remind you again – wage differences between men and women amount to more than 30 percent. Since you have been in the government since 2000, there has unfortunately been nothing to improve. I have to admit to you that you have done absolutely nothing on the other hand! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The reason for this is, among other things, the report from Brussels, the poor offer of childcare, ladies and gentlemen of the government. This means that we have too few kindergartens in Austria, but that also means that we have too few places in Austria. Moreover, the OECD is also hostilely criticised for child benefits as employment. [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you against it?]] I can explain that very easily. – If a young mother wants to preserve her chances of a full-time job, she must comply with certain things, because – and she was not informed by you – after two years – and you know that, colleague Scheibner – the cancellation protection is lost. [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you against the child's money?]] If she stays in Karenz for half a year, she hardly has a chance anymore, then it is very likely that the employer says: No, we need to. You don't. We've been in your job for a long time. You have drawn your attention to all the experts involved in child money. We have also drawn your attention to this. But you have ignored all these advices. Therefore, the situation is the same as it is. But there could be 25,000 young women back into work if there were enough care places. You know exactly what that means, too. – If we had enough childcare services in Austria – unfortunately we don’t have them – then we would have more women’s employment, colleague Bleckmann. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Bleckmann]] If we had more women's employment in Austria, we would naturally also have more full-time jobs for women. That means that women would have a better life assurance because they would earn more. [[Abg. Neudeck: How many childcare places are there in Vienna?]] Then we would also have less poverty in Austria, because especially those women who raise their children alone are seriously threatened by poverty. Then, of course, we would also have more revenue, more taxes for the state, and as a result we would have more money for childcare places. So closes the cycle, ladies and gentlemen! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Unfortunately, the EU Commission also tells us that the employment situation of women over 50 is particularly sad. By you, by the Federal Government, an older unemployed woman is punished twice: First: She has become unemployed, because You have done nothing about it, you have not taken any action to ensure that older workers can be in employment longer. [[Abg. Ellwall: Completely wrong!]] Secondly, If the partner of this woman earns a few euros too much, she also loses the emergency aid. – That means double punishment for older Austrians. We are the most important – most important! – the fight against unemployment here in Austria, but also in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. We do not want an economic policy that only promotes large corporations, but we want to promote economic policy, growth and employment. Our social democratic women and men in the European Parliament have already achieved much in this regard. I can only remind you very briefly of the following example: Why do women have to make higher contributions to insurance, just because you are women? [[Abg. Großruck: I've never heard that before!]] Our Members Maria Berger, Christa Prets and Karin Scheele have negotiated hard, and the European Parliament has decided to remove this discrimination. Now the Federal Government is acting on the train – and I am curious how you will decide, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I regret that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, as well as the entire Federal Government do not sufficiently perceive the interests of us women in Austria and the interests of women in the EU. [[Abg. Großruck: Excellent!]] [[Abg. Großruck: Excellent work done!]] It is therefore necessary, ladies and gentlemen, that we women show you the “red card”. [[keeping a red card in height]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7964	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e7983	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Democrats will not be able to take responsibility as easily as they try at this meeting, because it is particularly right and, above all, necessary to take stock of and discuss the work and activity in an election campaign, or especially in a time of upcoming elections. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Social Democrats and all the major exponents of the SPÖ were among the sanctionors at the time, with applause, when sanctions against Austria were being imposed, is very likely to be the subject here today. One cannot easily steal from the responsibility and stay out of the subject. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It's also not yellowed paper, as you say, but that's still up to date, because Swoboda is again top candidate. They were all there! It's too easy to say that doesn't agree, and to speak of "yellow paper," because there was no one other than Hans-Peter Martin, who at the time was still top candidate for the SPÖ, who said – I quote – that: “And with the sanctions, I experienced Swoboda live. There was a real joy. It wasn't about Austria. It was always about his party.” That's exactly your attitude: They're not patriots! You are international Social Democrats! – That’s the reality! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Gusenbauer! What was then at the Holocaust Conference – perhaps you can remember it! – where have you organized the resistance, where you have developed a strategy for how to proceed? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I wasn't there at all!]] The strategy was clear: on the one hand, try to follow Austria through the sanctions, and on the other hand also here in the country itself organize the resistance. I remember the demonstrations, the violent outpourings, the Brüllers, who called all the “resistances” where people from your side were with them, my dear ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ. You can't just wipe it out by saying: It's snow from yesterday! – The Swoboda was there everywhere. There was only one goal, and this goal was: Socialist International is going ahead of Austria and its interests! – It is so to this day! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You should not write “for a social Europe” on the table, which you have always been so beautiful on the speaker’s desk, but you should write on it: for a socialist Europe! But you still have a big problem. – Mr One, Mr Schieder, I would like to address both of you. – On the issue of ‘EU accession to Turkey’, I was able to read that the Social Democrats had now decided to vote against it. – I say to you: It's pure populism! It is the untruth! I'll prove that to you now. Mr Schieder and Mr One, please come out and confirm it! I have your statements here. That was on the 12th. This year, on the occasion of a Committee on Foreign Policy and Integration, you both commented on this and said that Turkey should join the EU. [[Abg. Arbitrator nodded.]] But it is not only this statement interesting, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder, who is, at least, the spokesperson of the SPÖ, is quoted in the following way in an Austrian press agency communication that I have here: ‘Separation in principle for Turkey’s accession to the EU. Then it says literally: “Sleeper himself spoke clearly for Turkey’s accession to the EU.” Ladies and gentlemen! How does this work? Today, is this S & D party against Turkey's accession to the EU?- Oh, my God! I also come to an unimportant man in SPÖ, to the European speaker. [[Abg. Oils: What about the shark?- Oh, my God!]] – The European spokesperson One, ladies and gentlemen, is getting even clearer, and he said on 24 April. October 2003, only about half a year ago, the following – I quote –: “It is therefore fair and consistent to allow Ankara to join under the same conditions.” So what do you say about this: [[Call the ÖVP:Hear! Listen!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: “under the same conditions”!]] Are you now in favour of Turkey's accession to the EU, or are you now, just because of the election camp, against Turkey's accession to the EU? I say here at this point: In reality, because you are a member of the Socialist International, just as your German friends Schröder & Co. have taken up and support Turkey's accession to the EU. Only: That doesn't fit in the election campaign. I'll tell you why. – You have commissioned the opinion research institute SORA because it was the topic of the election campaign to conduct a survey on Turkey’s accession to the EU. In April, SORA conducted an investigation for you on your behalf, which resulted in a devastating outcome for you. The devastating result was: The vast majority of Austrians want to know nothing about Turkey's membership in the European Union at all! – That is why you have changed your mood in the short term. Stay with the truth! It is simply necessary for the Austrians to know what the truth is for you as an opposition party. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Were you back to Saddam?]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the issue of electoral participation and because it is constantly complained that it will be so low, one must also conduct a little cause research. The lack of interest and EU fatigue have several reasons [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Such a speech is a contribution to this!]] One of the most important reasons is certainly promises made on the occasion of Austria's accession to the EU. It was your wife, Ederer, who promised the 1 000 s. Every Austrian and every Austrian has known for a long time that this is absolutely wrong. [[Abg. Neudeck:... the Swoboda said!]] – But of course it is also the sanctions that all of you have carried and supported. It is also the question of transit, ladies and gentlemen, where one has crossed over us. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Eder: Four ministers have you consumed!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That is why it is necessary for us to have a strong voice for Austria and a consistent representation for Austria on the occasion of the forthcoming EU election – and, ladies and gentlemen, we are offering this to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8226	Ladies and gentlemen! The speaking time in the last round is 4 minutes per group. The next speaker was Mrs Dr Glavischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8247	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Gentlemen on the government bank! Now I have to explain something basic: I have certain doubts that you are not subject to a very fundamental error with the term ‘Austrian interests’. They act as if what the government represents were exclusively Austrian interests. – I think there is a fundamental misunderstanding, and I would like to try to explain it to you. Assuming that the Minister of Finance represents a position in Brussels that the European Parliament should be dissociated on budget issues, it would automatically be a violation of Austrian interest according to your concept if you were upset. – This is the case in many cases: There are very fundamental differences between the Greens and the ÖVP in many questions. With our position in Europe we also have allies: If we are in favour of a European nuclear exodus, if we are advocating peace policy, then of course we are also in an alliance in Europe! – This necessarily push into an automatic alliance, only because you are currently in the government, has nothing to do with whether this is good or bad for Austria – nothing at all! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The topic of water is a good example. They are all here now and present the red-and-white-red flag on the Austrian Alpine stock to us: The water must remain Austrian! – What is actually the case? Austria currently has water in private property. There are private cooperatives, and it is now a trend that is increasingly industrialized and liberalized. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Water is bound to soil and soil!]] In Lower Austria, for example – in your Lower Austria: black ruled! – the water is now managed by a stock company, and in short or long time this stock company will no longer be in Austrian ownership! [[Abg. May. Molterer: I am Upper Austrian! Upper Austria!]] In Carinthia we already have this: In Carinthia, the Austrian water, connected with the energy group, has been sold to an atomic group – the access to the water resources of the Carinthian energy supply! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The Carinthian water belongs...!]] Then put yourself here and claim that you would protect Austrian water! So I can't believe this, and I guess you don't believe it in Austria. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That's just populist, it's really just populist! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch:...! It's drawn to the hair!]] So, and now I come to what I wanted to say. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: It's on the hair!]] – Mr Bundeskanzler, we have asked you a few very simple questions. These are very, very important to us, because it's about sausages now when I'm allowed to express it in such an army. This Intergovernmental Conference sets the course for or against a European nuclear exodus, and we wanted to know very simple things. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Live the TV time! That's where you can say anything stupid! – It’s unimaginable!]] We just wanted to know: What are you gonna do? What will you do? How will you enforce that? How will you redesign this instrument of European nuclear promotion? – I always hear from you the same thing, namely: Okay, we made a request there! We may be making a conference! – But the real commitment you lack completely! I also know why I always get such a discomfort when you're talking about anti-atomic policy. You said today: What is important to us is security, these are European safety standards. – I say to you: That is what the French nuclear industry says. It also does not want unsafe nuclear power plants! – We do not want safe nuclear power stations, but we want an exit from the use of nuclear energy! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Right!]] I wish you would. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They also seem to underestimate the dimension totally. If you've read the economic pages lately, you know: The debate on the rising oil price makes the Renaissance of nuclear energy in Europe re-allocated! In the meantime, there are 30 new projects that are under construction or planning, and it simply isn't enough if you just go here and say: We are against nuclear power plants anyway, and we are trying something!, but that must be the absolute priority in the coming weeks and months! This must be the central focus of the Austrian Presidency 2006! I just don't think it's enough for you to make yourself up here and say: We are against it anyway, and we may try an initiative together with the Joschka Fischer! – That's too little, Federal Chancellor! That's far too little! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Is the fisherman not enough? The fisherman's not enough? – The Joschka Fischer is simply too little! I understand!]] In Bavaria, in France, in some Central and Eastern European accession countries, we have problems with the renaissance of nuclear energy – and we have a German chancellor who produces himself here and says: [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] We want safe nuclear power plants! – I don’t know, I don’t think people should take a picture of it themselves and on 13th. In June, consider whether they want to continue to control the fate of the Austrian course in Europe. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Not so fast! Not so fast! ... don't understand!]] – I don't think so!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8425	Next, Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8459	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say, dear Mrs. Dr. Glowy: Today the Greens have criticized the political style. But what are you doing? You're running a populist fright! – This is a style that we reject, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It's very interesting that you sit here all day with your table today, which you or Mr Gusenbauer's – well, I'll explain it to you right now, not so excited! – not even able to carry to the speaker’s desk and insist on it: “For a social Europe”. [[A lively ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens on a panel with the ÖVP logo and the inscription “Austria strongly represented in Europe – European elections 13. June’, which the speaker placed on the speaker’s desk]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is, of course, already to be said: They are talking about a social Europe – and we are committed to it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is a dangerous threat!]] If, for example, I take the very important issue of the question of the labour market, the question of unemployment as an example, it is clear that: We thank God for the lowest unemployment in Europe – thanks to this federal government! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We also have the lowest youth unemployment in all of Europe! If every single unemployed person is too much for me, I must say: Take note that there are 24 governments in Europe who are less successful in combating unemployment than this Austrian government is! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They criticised by SPÖ that Austrian interests would not be sufficiently perceived in Brussels. That's what I'm asking myself: Where are your social leaders today all day? Where is the president of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation all day? [[Deputies Dr. Gusenbauer and Dr. Cap:In Brussels! In Brussels!]] Where is the President of the Metal Trade Union today all day? Where are they, ladies and gentlemen? [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – You should take care of the interests of Austrian workers! That's their job! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But thank God Fritz Neugebauer hier is in the hall! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Then, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, talk to you and place: “Towards a Europe of Groupes”. – Well, you have to take care of it yourself, because if you are talking about a group Europe, you have to think about where you will get rid of your unsuccessful top politicians in the future. The vector climate, I think, is in the VW group. Andreas Rudas is in the Magna Group with Frank Stronach. Former State Secretary Ruttenstorfer is in the OMV Group. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr Bauer, Gaál and Eder.]] – So don’t talk too much about a group Europe, because then you produce more unemployed social democrats than you love! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But perhaps President Vergestnich and Mr Nürnberger are just about to set up and regulate the joint ventures of the ÖGB. Unfortunately, I do not have the time to address the enormous links here now, but I would like to go to the GPA private foundation already the GPA private foundation, in which – and this is quite interesting – Hans Sallmutter is personally involved! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: What does this have to do with the Constitution? But that really has nothing to do with the Constitution!]] [[Oh-and-oh-rufe at the ÖVP.]] I believe that the GPA, the trade union of private workers, is now getting a new name, namely “PGS” – “Private Union of Sallmutters” – because he took it together accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! Such a policy – with fear of water, with fear of nuclear policy – cannot represent Austrian interests. Austrian interests are excellently represented with our team and with Ursula Stenzel in Brussels!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8624	The next item is the speech by Mr Broukal. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8642	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! [[The speaker places a bottle of water with the label “Our water must not be privatized” on the speaker’s desk.]] Mr Amon! My God, sometimes allegations have so short legs that they don't even remain truths until they go back to the deputies bank. Do you know where Mr Vergestnich and Mr Nürnberger are? – In Brussels at a meeting on the future of European employment and jobs! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: You should be here!]] I would like to take a close look at my colleague Walch and say: Read – think – talk! - So, point one. The Group Europe – and then you count Mr Ruttenstorfer and Mr Rudas. Why mention You're never asking yourself the name “Raidl” in these days? You've been dumb all week! [[Abg. Grossruck:... VP politician?]] Her chief economic advisor, the editor of the Federal Chancellor, the premiere paradic entrepreneur of the ÖVP, suddenly advocates a reduction in wages, an increase in working time without compensation. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Taus, or what?]] And because people then have too little to live – in the technical term: “working some” – the state should give them a little more to pay, so that they can go back to working for a hunger wage the next day. – You don't think so, Mr. Secretary-General of the ÖAAB? - I can only be surprised. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Mainoni! Why is SPÖ not dealing with this issue – the subject of sanctions –?, ask. - You know, I'm totally unaware of all of them. I was a journalist in the ORF at the time, I was... [[Lively ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP and the liberals.]] You can give me a responsibility... [[Further ongoing calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So I think about 4 million Austrians know that – it's new to you. Welcome to reality! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I'd ask you: You know, the stupid thing is always when you start telling stories where it fits you. – I go back to 1989 and say: At that time I heard someone on the radio who said: “The proper employment policy in the Third Reich”. - I'm going back to 1995. At that time, I heard someone say on TV: “I thank you for your life’s work!” – a gang of condemned SS criminals, as has turned out afterwards. – Declaration: Unfortunately, I didn't know! [[Abg. Neudeck: If you still think of the parking bank! Now the parking pool is coming, then it will be very deep!]] Go back so far! Or go back to your Minister of Justice, who at the time considered the idea that Members who are misguided simply locked up for – you remember the quote – “persecutable”! . So I think that if you go back a little further, you will probably also realize why so many conservative European statesmen have meant that it was quite time in 2000 for a demonstration of disapproval of the first government of the ÖVP and the FPÖ. These were mostly conservative parties – the Spaniards, the French were already mentioned. So, on the subject of Turkey [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Are you now for the sanctions or against them?]] I ask you to take note of... [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Are you now for the sanctions or against them? Are you now for the champagne drink of Gusenbauer or against it?]] So I tell you quite honestly: When I'm on a 5. May must decide whether to move with a band of Neo-Nazis in front of Heroesplatz in Vienna or with a French politician for the final liberation of Europe from National Socialism with Champagne, I will tell you: Come with the champagne glass! You do not want to grieve the National Socialists, but it is our privilege to celebrate the liberation of Europe as a memorable event today! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a naughtiness! Tell me! What are you doing? That's incredible!]] On the topic of Turkey: I ask you to take note of this once and for all. [[Vivid calls to the liberals and the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Scheibner:...! What's going on? Excuse me! Excuse me! That's incredible what you're doing...!]] The Social Democratic Party is opposed to Turkey's accession, now and in the foreseeable future, for the simple reason that the consolidation of the European Union must now take precedence over any enlargement! [[continued outraged calls for call for tender in the liberals and the ÖVP]] [[Members of the ÖVP beat the banks in protest with the palms]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] You know what's stupid...
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8839	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8872	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e8891	Ladies and gentlemen! We have now experienced once again the way in which we believe we can make politics in this country. Mr. Broukal! With such arguments of wanting to make a policy with such evasion here in this House, is under the dignity of Parliament! You should apologise, ladies and gentlemen, and not clap! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But it is clear – and Mr. Schieder has already said it – that: Good topics are just those that fit you! Good governments are just those that fit you! But issues that do not fit you seem to have lost nothing here, and against governments that do not fit you, they are drawn to fields, even in the European Union, whether that harms the population or not. – This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen! That is exactly what it is all about: such a policy must be chosen! We do not need to have representatives here in the House or elsewhere who come with this cult, which will keep you from a critic, if such a one occurs and say something that does not fit you, immediately: that he has made a common case with the National Socialists. – Ladies and gentlemen! It is immense that such a thing is still possible in this House! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If there is a government here that does not fit you, then it is fascist, then it is anti-democratic, and then you work with your socialist colleagues against this government and against Austria! – That is exactly what we want to address in this election campaign! Ladies and gentlemen! The population should know that if they do, they will be on the 13th. June SPÖ elects and with Mr Swoboda a candidate who belongs to your party, then this line stands for election. Then the question arises: Do we put in the foreground the well-being of Austria, the well-being of the population – or a party policy, as we have heard today in Mr Broukal's speech? – We are for Austria and against such diffamation of politicians in this country, from a government and from all over Austria! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Since when?]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Schieder! – I'm really trying to calm down now, but that's where the fun stops. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Silhavy and Mr Broukal.]] Mr Broukal! With such comparisons to democratic politicians and to the House here, the fun stops! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr. Schieder! It is not about this letter, it is about the principle. If, as you know, on 31 December. In January 2000, the Portuguese Presidency announced the sanctions and announced measures not only against the government but also against official bodies in Austria, the Commission announced these measures and this decision on 1 January 2000. The European Parliament, with all the votes of the Socialist and Green Members, voted in favour of these statements and also of the Commission's decision, and then Mr Swoboda said in his speech: It is a black day for Austria and Europe!, and: Support It is the Austrian people against this government!, then, ladies and gentlemen, that is not politics for Austria, but politics may be for a party – but not for a country, not for the Republic of Austria and its population! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We stand to do this: Whoever is criticized from the outside, no matter who is discredited from the outside – we as Austrian representatives stand abroad for all Members of Parliament, for all politicians, for all members of the Austrian population! We'd expect that from you, too. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, today you have not taken the opportunity to share with us this motion for a resolution, in which sanctions are condemned at least four years later and where it is further to ensure that such a thing never occurs again. But, ladies and gentlemen: Enlightenment must be! We'll see if there's going to be the investigation committee, but I have little hope that you'll get to the point, because: If what Mr Broukal has said here is still acclaimed by you and if it is applauded, this is unfortunately also the line of your party.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9005	Mr Broukal spoke in favour of an actual correction. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Start playing the claim to be corrected and face it with the right facts! Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9058	Mr Scheibner said I said: If one does not fit a government, one accuses it of fascist and anti-democratic attitude. - That's not true! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Now he talks out again!]] I did not talk about the Austrian Federal Government, I talked about Mr. Haider, who was not a member of the Austrian Federal Government at any time! [[Abg. Steibl: You said “they”!]] [[Call the ÖVP:No!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9152	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9182	Ladies and gentlemen! I have belonged to this House for four years since the beginning of 1990, then I have been a member of the Federal Government and have now been working as a clubman in this House in this legislative period. Mr Broukal! There may be situations in which someone goes through the nerves. With you, I say, I am aware: You know what you're saying. [[Abg. Lentsch: That's it!]] Do you know what you said? [[Abg. Broukal: What did I say?]] . You have said, on this page significant This is a common case with the National Socialists. [[The speaker points to the government groups]] [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman:Yes! Step back!]] You said, Mr Broukal, on this side of the House, pointing out that someone would grieve the National Socialists. [[Abg. May. Trunk: This is perpetrator-sacrifice reverse!]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Broukal, I would like to ask you how you deal with this at least my memory of one-off derailment. I know Members of this House who have moved and resigned for much less the personal consequence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes! Yes!]] [[Lively continuing condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] If you now think you could go out here and correct something with an actual correction, I would draw your attention to it in your interest: With this actual correction, you have actually made the matter even worse! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP:No honor!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Broukal may mean – because I look at the faces of the SPÖ delegates – to be able to go out now and believe that this thing is out of the world with an excuse. [[Abg. Scheibner: He doesn't even do that!]] No, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] First: The SPÖ has applauded these incredible unique statements in the history of this House, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman: So it is! Yes!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Secondly, Obviously, the SPÖ Members are not aware of what they are defending here. Mr Broukal! If you have only the sparks of political resistance, then you will have the consequences of such immensely unique accusations that have never been made in this House! [[Call at the ÖVP – towards the Abg. Broukal –:Step back]] Pull the personal consequences! I say to you, on behalf of the Austrian People's Party, on behalf of the Freedom Party, on behalf of the Green Party and on behalf of Social Democracy – I assume – that this procedure, which cannot be apologised for your statements and can only be answered properly with a follow-up, namely with the one you personally have to draw! [[Abg. Steibl: Retire! Step back!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: With what right do you want to judge us?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9391	Ladies and gentlemen! I have requested the Stenographical Protocol immediately after Mr Broukal's speech and will, of course, continue to take note of it during this debate. Mr Scheibner spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9414	Ladies and gentlemen! I have with my... – No, this is not an artificial excitement, whoever says that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: That must not be true!]] Unfortunately, this shows: There is no even insight here! I have been waiting for the actual correction of Mr Broukal, because I have hoped that he will do so – because he may have been misinterpreted – that he will apologise, whatever. He did the opposite! And it is clear that in his speech he called at least one group in this House, members of this group, National Socialists. [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I do not leave that on my mind, nor does my group sit on it. That's unique in this high house! I therefore request that the sitting be suspended and that a presidential meeting be convened.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9480	I will take a look at the stenographic protocol within the next few minutes and then decide on it. As the next speaker, Mr Cap spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9506	I'd like to advance: There is no one in the house here who accuses anyone of having sympathy with the National Socialists. [[Violent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman:O yea! Broukal!]] You know very well that this has been done in the escalation of the conflict. There's no one here... [[Deputies of the ÖVP and the Freeman point to Abg. Broukal.]] We have to report here that it is... – Mr President! [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Unheard!]] [[Abg. Head: Mr. Cap! You're just making it worse!]] The minimum thing you have to guarantee here is that there is peace and that you can do your word here in peace. You don't have to make such a redundancie by ÖVP and the liberals! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's say it again. There is no one here who accuses anyone else that he has made a common case with the National Socialists or regrets that the National Socialists are no longer there. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We heard it!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: (on Abg. Broukal clearly) He said it!]] But there is an unfair culture of conflict here on issues that deal with this matter. [[Vivid calls at the ÖVP and the Freeman]] [[Subsequent calls to the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] – Now please listen to me in peace, damn it again! [[Violent outrage at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Listening will be possible! [[Lively calls to the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Deputies of the ÖVP and the Freeman are demonstratingly leaving their seats and standing behind the last rows of seats in front of the glass doors to the couloir.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: (in the direction of ÖVP and the Freeman) He can't even talk!]] If today a discussion takes place in which we say: We want to try to have the common priority!, and if we really would have to deal with today, that a campaign is conducted in a form here, that a top candidate, in this case the Hannes Swoboda, is being accused by false letters that he has never said, never written, then that is something I think has nothing to look for in the Austrian political culture, in the political debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Header]] – Point 1. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Is this a comparison now?]] I'll make the second comparison. That's what I'm telling you: It is legitimate to refer here again and again to the statement of Haider on the “ordinary employment policy in the Third Reich”. [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman: But he has resigned!]] It is legitimate to criticize that! And he is still an important personality in the FPÖ, so you can talk about it. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Broukal must resign!]] It is legitimate to discuss it when Haider says that, if a person does not fit him, he should not be allowed to give his mandate; it is legitimate, if Haider, together with Böhmdorfer in 2000, has pointed out that it should go so far that one can plead for relinquishment and loss of office, and is in today's "standard", that thought of Haider reminds of the National Socialists' Return Act in 1934. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: We're talking about Broukal now!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If Haider says that Hannes Swoboda and the others are “fatherland traitors” and that is a term that Adolf Hitler used against the opponents of National Socialism, then you will still be able to point out this, without having to allow for this! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] And to do that, I'll tell you something: I also expect the Chancellor to respond differently to the accusation with the “fatherland traitor” than simply to say: That's not my language! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am telling you, I do not like this form of debate that is taking place here at the moment. I don't think it's positive. [[Interlocutory calls to the ÖVP and to representatives of the liberals.]] I believe that after 1945, many of them were sitting in the same camp of the National Socialists, we built this republic together. We should not play with this basic consensus that has led to the construction of this Republic! On the other hand, I'm really a vehement! I think that this is really harmful to our democracy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] And that goes so far... – No! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] I'll tell you something. You can peak, you can polemize, you can also try to understand the other properly, that can all be so. [[Abg. May. Mainoni: Why? That was clear!]] But if policy was made with concrete untruths – by the way, until Franz Fischler was supposed to have led a Commission decision against Austria, which was not at all the case. He then had to resist it, for that was clearly wrong. That's how the election campaign is happening right now! [[The speaker is drumming on the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. May. Mainoni: The election campaign is playing...!]] That's why I have to tell you: That's not the way we're going to have this fight! And again: There is no one here who accuses anyone else of this, and not the ÖVP at all, that she would have sympathy for National Socialism! [[Interlocutory calls at the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] I would like to point this out in detail. And stop now!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9820	Ladies and gentlemen! It will soon be available to me with the minutes of Mr Broukal's speech. I make a break in the sitting and ask the four club members to give me a brief presentation to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9845	I ask the honourable Members to take a seat. I'll start the interrupted session again. Before we proceed on the agenda, I refer to Mr Broukal's speech. The statements made at the same time give rise to every relation of statements made so far, which I have experienced as a member of the House. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall give Mr Broukal a call for an order.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9878	Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, the President, on behalf of the President-in-Office of the Council, notes that: The President's Conference condemns the assumption that part of this House is following National Socialism. This statement is unacceptable! No one in this House mourns National Socialism! The Presidential Conference also took note of the opinion of Klubobmann Dr. Josef Capzur, according to which the SPÖ does not place anyone in the High House to grieve National Socialism. Mr Broukal is now given the opportunity to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9917	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry, I said things that you must not be told and should not say. I regret it and apologize!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9945	Ladies and gentlemen! The President-in-Office of the Council agreed with all the parties that the debate on the urgent question would be closed. No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The request made by Dr. Glawischnig, colleagues, to set up an investigative committee on the examination of the responsibility of Federal Minister Gehrer as the supervisory body of the Federal Museums as regards the lack of consequences from obvious misunderstandings in the Art History Museum was withdrawn, and the request for a debate was also withdrawn, subject to the fact that, at the next plenary session, the Greens could re-enter this request outside of the conflict standards and the legislation in this case. Applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e9977	We are now negotiating the request made by Mr Cap, colleagues, to set up a committee of inquiry on the disastrous presence of Austrian government members in the EU Councils and the resulting damage to Austria in the European comparison. The request was distributed to all Members. A debate was neither demanded nor decided. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e10112	We shall now proceed to the vote. Whoever agrees with this request by Mr Cap, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for a sign. – The application does not receive sufficient support and is therefore rejected. Finally, we are entering the debate on the request made by Mrs Kräber, colleagues and colleagues for the setting up of an investigation committee on the procurement of combat aircraft. This request was also distributed to all Members. A debate was neither requested nor decided. This application shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e10283	We shall also be voting in this case at once. If you agree to the setting up of this committee of inquiry, I would ask for a sign. . Neither does this request receive a majority of the House and is therefore rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-06-04-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00064_d7e10310	I am still announcing that at today's meeting, the questions raised by 1849/J to 1865/J have been raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 16 May. June 2004, 12 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
