ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e1380	Ladies and gentlemen! The 92. The meeting of the National Council is open. I can very much welcome the ladies and gentlemen in the House. I particularly welcome the head of state of Lower Austria Erwin Pröll and the president of the Lower Austrian Landtag Edmund Freibauer. Welcome, gentlemen. [[General condolences.]] The official protocols of 89. Meeting of 9 and 10. ==References====External links== Meeting of 10. In December 2004, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies are reported as preventable, Dr. Lentsch. Spindelegger, Heinisch-Hosek, Wimmer and Dr. Bleckmann. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e1420	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Federal Minister of Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasserwill be represented by State Secretary Dr Alfred Finz. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e1447	I also have a letter from Mr Bundeskanzler, which reads as follows: “I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 22. December 2004, GZ 3000,000/4-BEV/2004, the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State Günther Platter, has deposed the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of the Interior in conjunction with Article 77(4) of the Federal Constitutional Act in accordance with Article 70(1). At the same time, on my proposal under Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitution Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has appointed Mrs. Lies Prokopzur Federal Minister for the Interior.” I welcome Mrs Bundesminister Lies Prokop respectfully to the House! [[General condolences.]] The Federal Chancellor has announced his intention to make a statement according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. There is a request by five Members to refer to this declaration in accordance with § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a debate immediately. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e1503	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e1761	We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e1779	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration and shape of the debate. The following speech period was set for the debate from 10.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.: Statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany 15 minutes, then one speech per group of 15 minutes, then the word of the Federal Minister for the Interior 10 minutes, one word per group with 8 minutes speaking time, then the word of another member of the government with 8 minutes, and one word per group with 5 minutes speaking time. The following speaking time is agreed between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m.: One speech per group of 7 minutes, then one speech by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs at 7 minutes, and one speech by the political groups with 6 minutes speaking time. Actual corrections are only called after 1 p.m. Before the beginning of each final round, i.e. before 1 p.m. and before 2 p.m., the remaining speaking time will be distributed by the President-in-Office to the political groups, so that all political groups can speak evenly. The House shall decide on this Rules of Procedure. We shall proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – The consent shall be given unanimously. That is why we are doing so. Declaration by the Federal Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e1827	We now reach the German Chancellor's declaration according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. A debate will follow. Mr Bundeskanzler, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e1849	Mr President. Mr. Landeshuptmann! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you very warmly and ask for forgiveness that I am probably responsible for the fact that the National Council met immediately – two days before Christmas – for a special meeting. On the other hand, I also recorded very accurately the signals during the last discussion in the National Council that, I believe, the common desire of all political groups was not to extend the interim trust of the Minister of Defence with the leadership of the interior resort for too long. That is why I have tried to make a political decision within a week, and I have succeeded in doing so. Today in the morning, the new Minister of the Interior was praised by President Heinz Fischer. I cordially congratulate her and thank her above all for accepting my invitation. I am sure that it will fill this important office in the interests of the Republic and of the citizens! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I also know, of course, that I did a little trouble to my friend Erwin Pröll, head of state of Lower Austria, because now a post-occupying in Lower Austria was required. On the other hand, it is also important that these things are smooth and well solved in a functioning democracy. I think this has succeeded in an excellent double game. It was also my pleasure to see that, when the vote was taken yesterday in the Lower Austrian Landtag, the cosmopolitan deputy Lese Prokopbreit found approval of all the political groups, far above the party borders and far away. beyond the national borders. That is, I think, a “reliance” in Lower Austria and a confidence advance for Austria, which you also deserve, dearly read! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Interior is one of the most sensitive and difficult resorts. We are not dealing with the joys of societies, not with the happy sides, but exclusively with the shadows, regardless of whether it is about terror, about the handling of protection against criminal acts, against crime, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, about the protection of external borders, about the protection of road users, about dealing with refugees, about housing in difficult situations. All these are not the chocolate sides, no, these are the shadow sides of a modern society. If you want to be a Minister of the Interior or a Minister of the Interior, you need to be crisis-resistant, know that he can get into situations that require energetic, determined action in a very difficult situation, and must be able to act professionally. This is not for newcomers, it is something for experienced personalities who are mature and absolutely crisis-resistant. But that the feeling of compassion for people's concerns is not a question, that is necessary. Anyone who sometimes has to decide hard, I believe, in such an office too, must have enough sensitivity, be able to talk to the social institutions, to public opinion. And, of course, in a situation like now, in which large organisational transformations are in place in the resort – the merger of police, gendarmerie and customs guard into a powerful security body for Austria, a red and white-red security device – this is a prerequisite. I expect you to have that, and I know you have it. I also wish you the necessary happiness that is ultimately needed in such an office, the support of the staff, the support here in the High House for the high concerns of safety. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Read Prokopist a former top sportswoman: Olympic silver medal winner, dozens of Austrian state champions in various disciplines, world record owner for several years. So she has a condition, she knows how to deal with various obstacles and difficulties, with different challenges. I think those who have proved themselves in politics for years will also, with these basic virtues and basic abilities, make a good figure in the department. On the other hand, it's not a disadvantage that you come from one of the countries. It is often said – and it is true – that in the countries of the politicians there is obviously a greater public proximity – some criticize it – than perhaps at the European or the national level. That is clear, but this origin, of course, also gives real hope for the future in the resort, because you have just experienced that it is important to convey security to individual citizens. Security is a fundamental need in many situations of life, and the Secretary of Security of the Republic – that is now you – can, of course, provide security in very essential areas. You have very good conditions for this by your predecessor – to whom I say a great thank you at this point once again –: great renewals in the security equipment, over a thousand customs in the interior resort, several hundred more posts, so that today by a thousand police officers more on the street are responsible for the security of the country than in 1999. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is therefore a good condition to link with the federal states and build on Ernst Strasser's efforts. It will be very important for cooperation at European level to continue to be maintained. Your predecessor has done a lot, such as first-class cooperation with the neighbouring countries in the so-called Salzburg Group. This is actually a model for good regional cooperation, and this should necessarily be continued. After all, every country – even a large country, and only a medium-sized country like Austria – is completely overwhelmed by the fact that it alone guarantees the protection of borders, only to protect against the international gangsters and from the cross-border crime. It is therefore important that we act at European level in order to deepen cooperation. It will also be the big topic in the coming weeks, months and years that the former third pillar, the cooperation of justice and home affairs, together with Karin Miklauch, with Günther Platte Round with you as an interior minister works perfectly that we also have the courage to want and make good European solutions possible. We have come to borders as a national state, and it seems very important to me to maintain this European cooperation. Above all, this will also be one of the major issues in the EU Presidency of Austria. This European work is new for Lies Prokop nichts. It has long been chairman of the Assembly of the Regions of Europe and is therefore familiar with the European institutions from practical cooperation. Austria is one of the safest countries in the world; with you at the top, dear Lies Prokop, I hope that this may remain the same! We will do everything we can to ensure that the conditions are satisfied. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Last, but not least: If you look at the government bank now, you see that this government has a third woman; that is the highest share in the history of the Second Republic. Now I can make a small insert as an ÖVP partyman: The eight ministers who send the People's Party to the government are half men, half women. We didn't need a quota, the quality has decided! But I am looking forward to this historic uproar of the gates into a new perspective that my party has made possible! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The second issue is the European Council, which took place on Thursday and Friday last week. In particular, we have put forward the guidelines for future accession negotiations. Bulgaria and Romania have been announced a signing ceremony for April, Croatia – at a massive Austrian pressure, with great support – has a negotiating date without further conditions for the 17th. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I believe that this is a perspective for the entire Balkans, which is important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The main issue, of course, was Turkey, and two main issues have been discussed. One concerns Cyprus. We strongly supported the Cypriots that they have a right to expect Turkey, if it wants to start negotiations, to recognise the 25 EU Member States too. This is a matter of course for me. If you want to join a family, you can't say that a family member simply doesn't exist. How diplomatically restricted or camouflaged is a second question, but the principle that one who wants to join must recognise all of us has to be left out of dispute for all of us, even if it is a small country like Cyprus. The argument ‘600 000 Cypriots are ours more than 70 million Turks” is one I would rather not have heard during the discussions. For us, every member country is worth the same thing, whether small or large! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For us Austrians, besides the support for the Cypriots, the question of openness of negotiations – also due to the discussions in the EU's main committee and in the government – was of course a very important issue. We were very stubborn, we insisted that various points that I have set out here are really included in the conclusions. First: It is set out in the Union decision that this is a completely different process of accession than it was in the history of the European Union. There will be own clarifications and a separate negotiating framework, each chapter will be unanimously fixed in the objectives. In the same way, the completion will be unanimously fixed. It will be a long process that will take at least ten, if not fifteen or more years. There can be no conclusion of negotiations before 2014, i.e. before the next financial perspective. The objective of the open process is explicitly fixed within the accession perspective, there can be no guarantee of Turkey's accession. Only when all conditions are met and the ratifications are completed in accordance with the national rules of the game, will there be accession. All Copenhagen criteria, including – I have explicitly insisted – must be guaranteed the Union's capacity to accept them. It is only when this is assured that Turkey's accession is possible, and if not – we have put great value on it – another anchorage in the European structures will be necessary. There is, of course, Article 57 of the new Constitution behind it, which allows for a Treaty with the neighbours of the Union. This is very important for Austria and for citizens' concerns: Permanent safeguard clauses are fixed for the first time and derogations are fixed for the first time. This means that we can secure our labour market or various other areas in such a way that the questions of the citizens who are entitled can really be answered adequately and well. The Commission will set up a permanent monitoring system so that Turkey can be accompanied along this path. Because one thing is clear: We have every interest in Turkey having a European perspective. It is also in the Austrian and only in the European interest to bring Turkey closer to Europe and to anchor it in Europe. It would have been wrong not to give her the prospect of accession at all, especially since this has been explicitly and explicitly granted to her for 40 years – including in 1999 under the S & D Chancellor climate and me as Foreign Minister – and in 2002, together with FPÖ, in my government, was confirmed once again; by the way, this was also confirmed by all the parties in the EU's main committee at that time. We have made it possible to stop, not automatic negotiations, participation and optimal control by the Member States. After the negotiations there, which have been very hard, I have tabled the proposal that, when the ratification is concluded, we should hold a referendum on this in Austria and thus allow citizens to say yes or no to it at the end of the negotiations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think that this proposal makes sense, because Turkey is another case, a case of sui generis. It is not entirely in Europe, quite the contrary, it is a majority located outside of Europe. And it is a case that actually calls for the European Union's capacity to accept and cannot be answered with a yes from the outset. I invite you to make a joint motion for a resolution today in order to be credible in supporting this proposal. I know, of course, that such a resolution expires at the end of the legislative period, so I invite us to conclude a pact of the four parties represented in Parliament which ensures that beyond the legislative periods there is security and guarantee for such direct participation of the Austrian people. If this were true of your opinion, then perhaps, in order to underline this crediblely, I would invite the President of the National Council to invite us on an agreed date, party leaders and/or clubmen, to sign such an all-party pact for the coming legislative periods, so that the people may have the security. This is not a tactical announcement, but a credible promise that we are making today and here. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e2063	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. I will comply with his request at the invitation of the party leaders. I am now the first speaker to give Mr Cap the floor. His speaking time is 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e2084	Mr President. High house! First of all, I must express my astonishment: Will this always be the case now when a minister is replaced to see if the competent head of state sees whether that is really the case? [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Controlling, observing that his Liesl Prokop is sitting on the government bench? This must be a great relationship of trust, which is now in place here. [[Abg. Kainz: Federalism!]] So we'll be able to sort of read this in the future, whether it really is. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We now know – I have let it be lifted out – how many government reforms, new ministers, old ministers, have already existed. Today we once again have the almost luxurious view that all are here. Or should you say those who are still here? [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: They are not all!]] Is anyone missing again? [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: The Grasser!]] Yeah, that's right, the grasser is missing. I've really pushed this out. He wasn't a minister of finance for me spiritually. He has received most of his requests for distrust and is the most controversial minister on the government bank. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But Krüger, Böhmdorfer, Sickl, Haupt, Schmid – that's the one who said the batteries are empty; for those who have forgotten – Forstinger, Reichhold, Riess-Passer, Gorbach, again Böhmdorfer, Miklauch, Mainoni, Waneck, Plassnik, Ferrero-Waldner, Strasser, Prokop. – This is a doorway, but not a government. [[Abg. Grossruck: Climate, Edlinger!]] Of stability and continuity: There can be no talk of that! So you have to say that before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I believe that in future, too, the Federal Chancellor will hardly have any stress-free breakfast. Because what he knows, maybe he'll get a call again, when someone says, "You, Federal Chancellor, I don't want to. I'm not happy anymore. I have one of the most important ministries, namely the Ministry of the Interior, but I just don't do it anymore, I'm not there anymore. The chancellor says: Well, okay, let's find someone else. He calls one of his national leaders again, and he says: There's someone. – And that’s how the new government looks in the final effect. This is of course “toll” for the safety needs of the Austrians: What can they rely on if everyone who fits it simply goes? Mrs. Innenminister Prokop, you have now inherited quite a building site, you have to say that. Perhaps that was one of the reasons why Minister of the Interior, Strasser, went. But it is only a matter of having more criminal cases than in 1999, when the investigation rate has fallen from 50 percent to 37 percent, and when one has been saved to the 3,000 officials in the meantime, that is, at the expense of security, so that one can improve the design of the police later on: new uniforms, the cars will be dyed, get a new color, so it will simply change the picture. [[Abg. Grandruck: (his tie-up) New ties have also gotten them! You forgot!]] It costs a lot of money. We have looked at this, where the real estimates are not yet on the table, because there is as much as a single cape per official. By the way, a single police cap costs 48 €, for those who don't know. It has been saved on devils coming out, where Commissioners have been assembled without regard to security. Many of those who watch today may have experienced it on their own or know a neighbor, a neighbor, where the house was broken into the apartment, or they will leave the house and see a beaten disk in a car where there is a car theft, or they will hear about a drug deal, especially in rural areas. Mrs Minister, there is a lot waiting for you, because Minister of the Interior Strasser has actually failed with his policy! The only thing he's been thinking about was not to reform, but to change the structures in such a way that one can simply carry out job occupations. You will now be able to occupy 5,300 posts – the head of state Pröll gets a very aqueous mouth; 5,300 posts! – and if you do this the way you do in Lower Austria, Mr. Landeshuppmann, 99 percent ÖVP will come out at the end. [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Complementary of the Abg. Mandak.]] [[The head of state Dr. Pröll, who is sitting in the gallery, smiles and nods.]] I hope, Madam Minister of the Interior, you do not ask the head of state how to occupy the 5 300 posts, I hope you do not ask the Federal Chancellor either, I hope you will simply focus on qualification, competence and security. Because that is crucial and not the good mood of the head of state. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will have the opportunity to address the issue of security even more often here in the house. I think that's quite, very important. I am still admiring the acting performance of the Federal Chancellor, who, when he introduces a new member of the government, always grins and smiles, as if this had always been a secret plan from him, that he would introduce the principle of rotation into the government. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] – I am glad that You're so good. The Austrians will judge for themselves whether your variant with the start-up still meets credibility. [[Abg. Kainz: Better than “start-up”!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – This is the Christmas unrest. They are already quite nervous, now the holiday is coming, the Christbaum is already standing, and there you have to go to Parliament two days before. Stay calm! But I'm still coming to a second point, because look, somehow I have the impression that there are two bowls. There is the Austrian bowl, and there is the EU dish. Sometimes I have the impression that there are several, but the two are at discussion today. There are, therefore, two bowls because, in his statement, the Federal Chancellor had already done so again as if he had been a very great EU hegemony that had mixed up in there, and I do not know what it would have done for Austria and the EU. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have the gift of listing a list of naturalities. For example, you say: The negotiations, I fought. I, the courageous Chancellor, have fought in Brussels that negotiations with Turkey are open. Whom! Outcome open. What is the opposite? - The automatic. I wonder, Which of the negotiations that have taken place so far had an internal automatic one? The Austrian heroes of the Brussels Night before joining the European Union would have been all the actors, because it was all automatic anyway, it was all done anyway. Of course, there is no automatic means, of course, the essence of negotiations is that they are always open. But do you know what's even better? If you say, in relation to the legal status of the European Union, that of the Copenhagen criteria: We have fought for the Copenhagen criteria to apply during the negotiations. - No, no, no, no, no, For God's sake, what else is the basis for Copenhagen's criteria, does the EU say whether the acquis communautaire will be taken over, whether the economic conditions are met? And most importantly, the most important – and that is what we criticize: The decision to open accession negotiations with Turkey gave us the impression that it was actually a matter of facilitating accession and that the conditions were not really taken into account. Because – I'm sorry – to start negotiations with Turkey plays a very important role: What is the human rights situation? What is the question of equal rights for women? What is the protection of minorities in Turkey? These are important conditions, but in the Commission report we have read others: that there is, of course, still a great deal of torture, that it is in fact not very far away with the equal rights of women in Turkey. There is the famous remark that the virginity test is now only possible with public prosecutor's approval. We read all of this in the Commission report. There are also critical comments on the protection of minorities for the Kurds. I can quote all of this from the Commission's report. And one of the most important questions – that is why you have raised this in your speech before – is, of course, the question of Cyprus. If I join a community, I must also acknowledge and accept all the members of this community and not stand up... – Yes, he said it, but what has happened? [[Abg. Murauer: That's what Erdogan said!]] That, of course, Turkey does not recognise Cyprus. We have also drawn an interesting quote from this report by the EU. When Commissioner Verheugen, the Commissioner for Enlargement, spoke on the occasion of the presentation of the reports in the European Parliament, he said – I quote – that: The legal framework in Turkey is in line with the requirements of a democratic rule of law, which does not, of course, correspond to practice in Turkey. - Quote. Super: So “does not match” even says the Commissioner for Enlargement, but we are starting here to avoid the criteria for the opening of accession negotiations. Do you know what's bothering me? I am telling you today, and we should have a discussion about this. What model of the European Union are we seeking? At that time, 1994 we won the Austrian population for it by saying that it should be a democratic model, it should be a political one, but above all it should be a social union. We have not gone to the European Union so that Austria is at risk that the level of the welfare state is at risk. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Call the Vranitzky and ask him what he's been negotiating!]] That was a very important condition at the time. Therefore, of course, every enlargement process must be measured accordingly. The question is not just: What does it cost – Austria is net payer – will it now be more or less? Is the EU able to reform? Keywords: Section for Agricultural Development. Will there be changes and improvements here? Because half of the budget goes into the agricultural sector, Minister of Agriculture, you will know that. That is why the Commissioner for Agriculture, Fischler, has warned of unthinkable steps. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] It's a little less with balance sheet smear, but if you add it together, half of it comes out again. – So this should be taken into account in this context. The question is: Which European Union do we want? Do we want a European Union to be expanded as soon as possible? I find it unfair, anyway, that only Turkey is discussed. Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, several countries are also present. Solana is already talking about Ukraine. I wonder, Can the EU achieve this speed? Which EU will be present at the end of the day? Is that also a social union? Is this a deepened Union that can, indeed, prevent, or even prevent, the negative effects of globalisation globally and worldwide? Is it a European Union that acts independently against the United States, or is it that Washington, London, Warsaw, Ankara then coordinate and form a strong group in the European Union? What is it then? There are so many other issues involved, including security policy. For example, if Turkey joins, then the European Union is bordering the Caucasus crisis zones, North Iraq, Syria. These are loud things that need to be considered. I'm just saying this in the context: I am not being discussed enough and considering what it means in the final effect for the European Union and whether this is still in line with the promises we made to the Austrians at the time, 1994. Remember! Of course, there are many from the economic spheres that say: We prefer to expand as soon as possible, no matter who comes along. We want as few rules as possible. We do not want a social market economy, but we want wage dumping, we want location competition, we want tax competition. That's what we want – a loose customs union, then the euro zone, and otherwise everyone should go their way to which he's just interested. That was not what we promised at the time. That is why a real discussion process must begin here, which ultimately goes far beyond this individual question and which takes much more into account. Of course, there are standards in the European Union, which are of major importance: political standards, ethical, moral standards. I'm just against the fact that we're always the senior teachers everywhere. The countries which play a significant role in the European Union have also had critical moments in their history. So you're not supposed to force yourself up to the high teacher. But now we have a legal status, now we have developed a political culture, now, I believe, the European Union can rightly say that it has achieved a great deal. However, this also includes the social state, the welfare state and this social security scheme, which, in my view, represents a very, very serious point. If you want to be credible, you have to express this at the beginning of negotiations, and that is what we are particularly interested in. Look, it is not inappropriate to think about what the European Union's financial perspective is. We visited Brussels two and a half days before this debate. It is true that there should be no accession before 2014, but there are currently the most intense conflicts within the European Union. There are the countries that are currently receiving support and do not want to give up. There is the famous British rebate that Mrs Thatcher has negotiated, €5 billion a year, and what the British do not want to give up. There is, of course, also the whole agricultural sector, which has long been reformed. Fischler also recognized this when he was still an agricultural commissioner. That is to say, a sum of changes is at the doorstep, but also a sum of new agreements that will be concluded so that the European Union can carry out a preview by 2013 or 2014. And after 2014, there will have to be another perspective, and then you will see how the negotiation process has gone. The long speech short, I would like to say something to Mr Bundeskanzler, you have proposed a party pact here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Very short sense!]] We shall put forward a motion for a resolution, and I will tell you in a moment: It is important to take direct democratic elements into account here, taking into account that we cannot estimate whether, in ten to twelve years, there may not be a European referendum, as the President of the Federal Government has mentioned. It is a popular vote imaginable, it is also imaginable that there are other direct democratic instruments. The fact is, the population must be included, fact is that the population must be able to participate. [[Abg. Scheibner: referendum!]] That's why it's going, and in this direction the conversations are to be conducted. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] No, what you want is quite simple: They want to put the population before complete facts. You want a decision in the National Council, you want a decision in the government, you want the respective Federal Chancellor to sign the accession of Turkey, and then you want to ask the population. And we want to do this before.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e2345	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. His speaking time is also 15 minutes. – You are speaking, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e2365	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! To the speech of Josef Cap, I would just like to say: State policy looks different! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today we welcome Lese Prokop as the new Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Austria. Welcome, Mrs. Federal Minister for the Interior of Reading Prokop! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We welcome Lese Prokope's experienced politician, a politician who, after an intensive sports career, had the courage to become a politician. This was not a matter of course in this sporty career and at the age of that time. Today, however, we can say that Lesen Prokopmit brings with her 35 years in politics a treasure of experience that not only can she be proud of but can build on Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We welcome with Liese Prokopheute not only an experienced politician, but above all we welcome a successful politician. I have read through what was said yesterday at the meeting of the Lower Austrian Parliament on its success report. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a success report that can be seen by all parties. This experience and the record of success are something that we can build on not only them but also on them. We welcome Lesen Prokopemanen, who in particular has a social sense and a sense of human measure, something which is very crucial in politics. She has proved in her activity that this is not a theoretical claim for her, but that for her it is humanity and the social dimension of her decisions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With Liese Prokopal's new Minister of the Interior, we welcome a woman who has demonstrated in her political activity and work that she is decisive that she is consistent and has courage to decide, ladies and gentlemen. And both require the Ministry of the Interior in a special way: the human measure on the one hand and the courage to decide on the other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I think and I am sure that Lies Prokopalle will bring with it conditions for a successful policy in this key area of our Republic. Read Prokopist, ladies and gentlemen, the first woman to be at the head of the Ministry of the Interior of this Republic, and we can say today – Wolfgang Schüssel has already pointed out – that in this Federal Government Schüssel II with the entry of Lies Prokopnun is the highest proportion of women that ever had a government in the Second Republic. We are proud of it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has really annoyed me – and I tell you that very openly – in the last few days, it has also angered me personally, how Lies Prokopund has commented on her decision to become Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Austria, not by the media – the media have recognized their strength and their ability – but by political competitors. Mr Darabos, I do not spare you to keep your quote, in which you meant it would be strange if you were to appoint a ‘63-year-old woman without experience in this field as a representative’. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Incredible!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Darabos, this is not only in a special way rude. Mr Darabos, check with Worm what I think about it. I'm not allowed to use the word because otherwise I would be called for an order. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... a snooze!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You know, Mr Darabos, the question of age as a benchmark for the value of political activity is a devalue of a whole generation! – Ladies and gentlemen, we certainly do not allow this! [[Lively condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] The minimum I expect from you, Mr Darabos, is an excuse to our Minister for the Interior. I would just draw your attention – and that is clearly not your case – to the age of Bruno Kreisky Federal Chancellor, at which age Hertha Firnberg became a minister and how old – and that is also obvious to you – is a very successful Minister of the Interior in Germany, namely in the person of Mr Schily. Mr Darabos, above all I must ask you: Are you really not man enough to express this excuse and put the question of experience into the mouth, as someone who is working in politics for a relatively short time? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He has no format!]] Mr Darabos, I ask you to make use of the opportunity to apologise. You're good at it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Ministry of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, is a key area for the Austrian People's Party and, of course, for the entire Republic of Austria. For us from the Austrian People's Party, it is clear that we are pursuing three major political objectives: first full employment through a successful economy, second, the realization of social justice, third, and above all, to give security to people in Austria. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Therefore, the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior is one of the decisive positions in our Republic, and this is at Lese Prokopin's best hands. It can continue to build on a good basis – on a good basis laid by Ernst Strasser in recent years. I would like to thank Mr Strasser for his work as Minister of the Interior on behalf of the Club of the Austrian People's Party at Ernst Strasser. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is due, for example, to Ernst Strasser that this week in the Federal Council the new Security Police Act was finally adopted and that the merger of police and gendarmerie will become a reality and that it will be possible to work even more efficiently for the safety of Austrians: with new instruments, such as video surveillance, or with protection zones, with a reasonable budget, which will ensure a sound financial and personnel equipment in the Ministry of the Interior for the next two years. So you can build on a solid basis, Mrs. Inner Minister. But it is also clear that you will face major challenges in a special way. I can assure you today and here the full and unconditional support of the Club of the Austrian People's Party, because your work, Mrs Federal Minister, is essential for Austria in the European context and because on your agenda there is the preparation of a new right of asylum, where we are clearly calling for an asylum country of Austria, where we are equally clear in favour of taking action against the abuse of asylum law. [[Abg. Heinzl: No!]] [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Go!]] It is in good hands for you to reform civil service, with a reduction in civil service time, and it is in good hands for you to implement the security reform from 1st century onwards. July of next year. Security is one of the most important goods that policy has to give. Read Prokop will make every effort to ensure that Austria remains one of the safest countries in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Chancellor – and I am very grateful to him for this – also referred to the European Council and reported on it. Because there has been a fall in the public debate over the last few days, I would like to repeat it again: Since the European Council it is clear that Romania and Bulgaria can join the European Union and that a possible date is 2007. It is particularly pleasing for us that the European Council decided that the 17th session of the European Council should be held in Brussels. A concrete date for accession negotiations will be offered to Croatia on March 2005, 2005. That is a key question for us, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank Federal Chancellor Schüssel and Ursula Plassnik very much for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, Turkey's question is at the heart of the negotiations at the European Council. The line of the Austrian People's Party is unchanged and clear: Turkey is an important country for us and for Austria and for the European Union, and we must therefore have the utmost interest in the best possible relations with Turkey. That is why we have clearly said: We are in favour of negotiations with Turkey, but these negotiations must be conducted openly. Why? – Because, out of our responsibility for the future, we simply thought it wrong to put Turkey’s armchair in front of the door to knock the door. No, my. Ladies and gentlemen, the negotiating door must be open – but just as open must be the result! I thank Wolfgang Schüssel today for the success at the Brussels European Council, which he was able to achieve together with Ursula Plassnik, namely that this line has largely been implemented in the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap, if you go here and say that, for example, the question of openness of outcome, that, for example, the question of specific conditions, that, for example, the question of anchoring all four Copenhagen criteria, that, for example, the question of safeguard clause, that, for example, the question of permanent exceptions would be a matter of course, I must tell you – I am sorry, but I say it anyway –: Then you have no idea of the European Union and European policy, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Yes, have you not registered and realized the political realities, especially with your party friends in Europe? Did you not realize what Blair, what Schröder, what Zapatero or what big ones have said? I can only draw two possible conclusions from this: Either you don't know what's happening there – that's bad! – or you have no influence at all in European Social Democracy, and that is just as bad, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is why you have decouvriert yourself with your line, Mr Cap! Propos line: Of course, not only do we ask ourselves where the SPÖ line is in Turkey. For example, there will be a head of state – and dear Mr Pröll, perhaps this is the cause, namely this head of state, that Josef Cap has so intensively occupied with you, he obviously has a national captain-trauma; we are not! – and this head of state is the name of Häupl, who asked the question: [[in the direction of Dr. Pröll, head of state, sitting in the gallery]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Rejoicing of the Chief of State Dr. Pröll]] In the Turkey question are you not on SPÖ party line? – Answer from Häupl: I don't know what the party line is! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] If even the deputy of Gusenbauer knows what the party line is, who else should know? There are no, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations at SPÖ as well as calls to the ÖVP.]] Thank you to the Lord. Federal Chancellors are also very specific to the fact that he has brought the issue of direct participation of the population in connection with Turkey's accession to the EU to the European Union. We unreservedly support a referendum on Turkey's accession to the EU, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Why? – Because Turkey is a special situation, and in special situations there must be not only special negotiating rules, but also decision-making rules. That is why this referendum, my group, is going to vote for it. Ladies and gentlemen – and not the washed Cap model, which says: At some point you should ask the people! Politics doesn't have to decide at all, because we don't trust it! – This is a continuation of the SPÖ zigzag course. We have a clear line, and I therefore, together with Mr Scheibner and Mr FPÖ, make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, our policy is: Decide – but of course with the people!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e2714	The one from the Deputies Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Herbert Scheibner, Dr. Werner Fasslabend, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Böschunderschreibung und von Wilhelm Molterer's motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, I wanted You don't interrupt, but: You crossed your speaking time by a minute. I'll take this one minute at the next ÖVP speaker. The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Speech time: 15 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e2750	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Our special meeting today deals with two topics: the new Minister for the Interior and various issues related to the negotiations on Turkey's accession to the EU. First of all, to the new Minister of the Interior. Mr Bundeskanzler, you are right if you say, among other things, that I have insisted that the decision about a new Minister of the Interior is taken quickly, that the interim solution with Minister Platter remains short. At that time – I think it was the 10. December – no deadline was specified at the meeting of the National Council when you announced that Mr Platter's Minister for Defence should also be entrusted to the Interior. This not only bothered me, but also various commentators. I therefore expressly welcome the fact that our desire to clarify this question before Christmas was fulfilled in this way or that clarity was now created. Mrs Federal Minister Prokop, you will speak to me, so I cannot naturally address your speech. I can only tell you what we, the Greens, expect of you. Today – but not only today – it is a lot of talk about the continuity of the policies of this federal government and thus of the policies of the two government parties ÖVP and FPÖ. What continuity will you preserve, Mrs Prokop: Is it, as it were, the continuity of a serious streetr of the year 2000 – I am not to say that Strasser had mastered difficult situations as a police minister at the time – or is it the tradition of Ernst Strasser of 2004, a time when he allowed his district, the Interior Ministry, to incarcerate two lawyers, blackmailed two lawyers, refunded ads, which, as has turned out – for the judicial system still works – were completely unstoppable, and against two lawyers who did not do anything but pursue their profession, among other things, also to represent asylum seekers and asylum seekers? Is it this tradition to continue? Is it the tradition that asylum legislation makes decisions which are clearly unconstitutional, which are then repealed by the Constitutional Court because they contradict the European Convention on Human Rights or the Geneva Convention on Refugees or other Austrian constitutional provisions? If you want to continue this tradition, Mrs Prokop, then of course you cannot expect our support! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, if you are aware in the area of the three major reform projects in place, namely asylum legislation, civil service and police and gendarmerie, that on the one hand, you are concerned with the efficiency of the security bodies – the “Reform of police and gendarmerie” – and, on the other hand, with human rights-compliant reform in the field of asylum law, you can expect our support! Beyond all opposition policy, I can assure you that if you put credible measures on these issues – for that you have a few weeks, not forever – you can expect our support. Mr Pröll, you seem to have gotten a statement from me into the wrong throat somehow. I said in a first statement that Mrs Prokop is a federal political unwritten sheet. [[The head of state Dr. Pröll nodds in the gallery.]] Liese Prokop, of course, is a very, very well described leaf. It would be ridiculous to disapprove of this in view of her decades of experience as a councillor. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You can say that!]] But with regard to federal policy, with regard to the activity as an interior minister, responsible for police, gendarmerie, asylum, civil service and so on, we do not yet know. At least I didn't notice that she had spoken to these questions. Why, then, should it have expressed its views on these questions so far? It was not within their competence. But now we want to know how you, Mrs Prokop, are talking about reducing civil service to six months. Now we want to know how you stand to ensure that civil servants are treated no differently as present servants, for example with regard to payment. Now we want to know how you stand for a reform of the Bundesasylamt and the second instance of the independent Bundesasylsenate, with regard to the equipment with more and more qualified staff, so that the quality of information in the first instance is improved and the second instance is relieved accordingly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the foreseeable future – not necessarily today, but in the foreseeable future – you, Mrs. Federal Minister, will have to declare here what tradition you intend to continue. Mr Bundeskanzler, you mentioned, among other things, that, if I remember correctly, half of the members of the ÖVP government are ministers at the moment. - That's good, no question. It would be amazing if the Greens did not expressly welcome this. But I have to say one thing: The work of the Federal Minister will be assessed according to their content. For example, we would have treated an Ernestine Strasser 2004 as different from Ernst Strasser with these measures, in particular with regard to its state-of-the-art measures. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Is it necessary to emphasize this?]] Well, I thought it was necessary to emphasize that. By the way, the questions Gehrer – PISA, Grasser – homepage and so on, and so on, all the questions that my colleague Cap has already raised, are uncompleted and we are waiting in this relationship for measures in 2005 to fathom the dozens of withdrawals. Furthermore, there can be no mention that this federal government is in a shiny state. [[Abg. Großruck: In an excellent! Best of all!]] I come now to the second issue: This Federal Government has not even managed to find a uniform opinion on the question of how to deal with the question of Turkey's accession to the EU prior to the trip from Chancellor Schüssel to Brussels. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The opposition either!]] The opposition is not obliged to find a single line in this respect. I do not feel obliged to agree with the SPÖ in any way. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shy: Not yet!]] That's what we'd have to decide separately. But you form the government, and for you it's a blamage if you don't make it! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] What happened? – Federal Chancellor Schüssel travels to Brussels and signs the paper in which the opening of negotiations with Turkey is approved. I expressly welcome this, but also say: [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes!]] If today there was a vote or a referendum on Turkey's accession here and now, I would vote No. I therefore do not understand this concern on the part of the SPÖ, because there is no question that Turkey is not eligible for accession today, no more than the EU is now able to accept. That is what the negotiations are all about. This point is okay. Then, Friday evening, why, the Federal Chancellor gets cold feet. He says: Oh, I didn't do everything I did. I want this to be blessed by a referendum. – No human can blame you for the first time, at least I don't. [[Abg. Grandruck: Would you have come?]] Now, suddenly and on the post office, are the three other parties to agree to this? The FPÖ agrees, of course, that is clear anyway. They always thought there should be a referendum. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Is that serious? It's a question of whether it's serious!]] But, Mr Bundeskanzler, did you not have some time ago – it was not long ago – on the occasion of an idea of the FPÖ to hold a referendum in the enlargement of the EU from 15 to 25 members, literally saying that you do not think anything about populist threats that sound good inside politics but only harm external politics?- Oh, my God! – Clear words, excellent! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And this is to be the continuity of the EIA policy that Mr Molterer has previously conjured? That's exactly the opposite of what you're doing now! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] At that time it was a populist threat, which only hurts and at most sounds good inside politically. Read the papers! This is not prohibited after the PISA study. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] Indeed, economic relations with Turkey are already tense. That's what you're doing. ==References====External links== October of this year – this is not at some point: For a referendum on Turkey in Austria, I am not, in any case, for a Europe-wide referendum. Ferrero-Waldner – uninteresting! Kiss two, three years ago – uninteresting! Don't count. Now you're for it all of a sudden, and you want it. Next step: People's vote. If you promise it alone, there's a danger that you won't believe it. The bowl itself said today: The credibility should be increased. – It’s true if someone says that as a third party I’m going to opposition, an economic platform should buy the interceptors, there should be a referendum after the Turkey negotiations – afterwards! – then you may not believe the People's Party or Federal Chancellor's Bowl. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] That is why the Greens and the Social Democrats must be on the spot. Time pressure exists there... [[Abg. May. Molterer: No one has to! You're invited!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... honest man!]] – I did not go along and will not go along with such a story. Today, if the expression is allowed, I am going to go ahead with my political granddaughter in 2014, 2024, 2187, when the negotiations are just about to be completed? That's what I'm supposed to make a declaration of commitment today? That's unscrupulous, that's grotesque! This is not just a constitutional problem, it is politically unscrupulous! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] What I believe, however, is that these negotiations on both sides will be very, very complicated. This is a pan-European project that we do not yet know how it will affect the European Union. That's true. I think that is why, when the negotiations are concluded, we will have to ask the competent people whether accession is to be carried out, executed or not. The competent people! Turkey will not join Austria if it ever comes to it, Turkey will join the European Union of the year x. That is why the Members of this House are voting in favour of this report. Van der Bellen and Lunacek: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is also the statement of the People's Party. We would support this part. The conditions for a Europe-wide referendum need to be created, because it is currently purely technical, purely legal. We think that is reasonable, and in this respect we are also taking an initiative, if you wish, by President Heinz Fischer. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not want to hide the fact that I do not agree with the position of the Social Democrats today at all. It is okay if Mr Cap believes that Turkey's accession at some point would be wrong. It's okay if you think that even the start of negotiations would be wrong. There are arguments for this; on the contrary, I have nothing to say. I'm just evaluating the arguments under the line differently. But: What people do they want to hide behind? – The SPÖ currently represents more than a third of the mandates in the National Council. The SPÖ will have it in hand at any time if one day it comes so far as to prevent a two-thirds decision in the National Council, which will be necessary to ratify the Treaty of Accession. The SPÖ has a veto right in this regard. If you think that accession is wrong at the time, you must vote against it in Parliament. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Then they don't have the majority anymore! In ten years...!]] What Colleague Cap really wants – and this is to be read in today’s “standard” and in the “press” – is: He wishes to have a referendum before the vote or even before the signature of the Heads of State of any accession treaty. My colleague, Mr Cap, such a procedure would have such a far-reaching effect that I say that this constitutional reform, which you are proposing, would indeed require a referendum in Austria, because that would indeed be an overall change of the Austrian federal constitution. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The cap is hard to move!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is cowardice before the people! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] We are elected to take responsibility, to make decisions and to make decisions if it corresponds to the legal situation or if it appears to be a political necessity to submit to the people for vote. If the people say no, then the relevant politicians, who have previously advocated this, just have to withdraw and draw the consequences. This is, under quotations, “normal” democratic politics, but not to hide behind an allegory people’s will. I do not think that is all right, I think, is an attempt to avoid responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e3058	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Lunacek, Mr Lunacek, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Lunacek, Mr Van der Belen, Mr Lünacek, Mr Van der Belen, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Van der Belen, Mr Van der Belen, Mr Van der Belen, Mr Lonecek, Mr Van der Von, Austrian initiative for the introduction of a Europe-wide referendum on European issues is well supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e3116	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Your speaking time, Mr Klubobmann, is also 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e3134	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We, too, find it good and right that the decision to re-occupy the Ministry of the Interior has been made more quickly than it may have been to be feared. In the last debate in the National Council, we have also expressed concern that important reforms in the Ministry of the Interior will be delayed by this interregnum, which might have come to our attention. This delay would simply not have been positive, because we are faced with increasing crime rates in this area. We also face the open question of a necessary asylum regime. These necessary measures must not be delayed. That is why we are very pleased that there has now been this occupation, this new nomination. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Prokop, you are politically experienced at the country level, not a question, but you will have little time to work on the subject, because it will be up to you, together with us liberals in the Federal Government, to implement exactly these necessary reforms. They will have in us a fair but also a consistent partner when it comes to putting these principles into reality. One word quite open, Mrs. Minister: I already know that from an absolute majority on the country level to a coalition, you might need a few days and some interviews to get used to it. But we will not divide our coalition partner at the federal level into good and bad, and we assume that you will not do this with your coalition partner in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But in any case, Mrs Prokop, you have our support and cooperation, if you are consistently fighting the increasing crime, if you have taken up the uncertainty that has been raised in the executive through certain plans, which are now also fixed by the merger of police and gendarmerie, if you, together with us, are moving to the fields of security, and if you are prepared together with us to take sometimes unconventional measures that are necessary when it comes, for example, to partially introducing the visa requirement to those countries from which we have experienced a greater degree of criminal tourism – as we are currently from Romania. These are the necessary measures that we expect to reduce increasing crime, Mrs Prokop. Mrs Bundesminister, you will also find our cooperation when it comes to making a clear distinction in asylum law between the really persecuted and those who abuse the right to asylum. On the one hand, we naturally support the principle that all those who are truly politically, religiously or racially persecuted must be given the necessary support and asylum, but on the other hand everything must be done against the abuse of this important right of asylum. There's a need for action, Mrs. Federal Minister. If we look at the 20 percent recognition rate – that is: 20 percent of asylum procedures are decided positively – then we recognise that 80 percent of asylum seekers have other reasons than real asylum grounds. And if you – and we support this – want to make a human policy in this area, I ask: Is it not precisely human that it is necessary to give all the support to this 20 percent and to rule out that at the expense of the 20 percent really political persecutors here in Austria, 80 percent of asylum seekers are trying to find accommodation and financial as well as material support? That is what we imagine under a human asylum policy, precisely this distinction in really politically persecuted and fighting abuse in this area! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. May. Molterer.]] You have said you will also cooperate with the NGOs. Yes, no question, the NGOs and the refugee organisations are already important in this regard. But it is also necessary for these organisations to make this distinction in really politically persecuted and in those who misuse the right to asylum. There must be no eye twinkling. It should also not be accepted that 98 percent of black Africans in a drug raid in Vienna are in an open asylum procedure, Mrs Home Secretary! There's no eye twinkling! It must be consistently expressed that, when someone is in an asylum procedure, he disregards criminal law, becomes criminal, becomes criminal, is released from this asylum procedure and is to be postponed from Austria. This too is a consistent, human asylum policy, Mrs Innenminister. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It will also be a question of applying the third country clause to 100 percent. It is a sensible arrangement for an asylum seekers to wait for their asylum proceedings in the country in which they first reside and where proper asylum travel is possible. And these are all our neighbouring countries. I assume that the agreement with the Czech Republic will be implemented quickly, that asylum seekers coming back from the Czech Republic will be taken back. We also assume that in the Asylum Act, the gaps we have seen in the implementation of this law are closed. This concerns, for example, the traumatisation, which means that an asylum-seeker, when stating that he was traumatized by the journey and by other events he experienced all, can definitely get an asylum procedure in Austria. And suddenly almost all asylum seekers were traumatized. That's where the question arises: Who are these people being informed of? Who will write these reigns? – I believe that there is absolutely a need for action, including in cooperation with the refugee organisations, to stop such abuse in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In all these areas, Minister of the Interior, you will have our support. Mr Miklauch, Minister of Justice, invited you to a first discussion, which, I believe, is already taking place today. This too is positive, namely, without delay in dealing with these tasks quickly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Second point: Turkey. The Federal Chancellor has told us about the outcome of the Brussels Summit. First of all, I say: I have recorded positively that Austria, perhaps even for the first time for many years, has consistently – even though we have remained alone – achieved a critical attitude and in some respects has clearly and visibly enforced itself. I say, unfortunately, because it was surprising for me that there were many European countries, members of the European Union, who, although they discussed very differently in their countries the question of Turkey's membership in the European Union, also partly discussed in the parliaments, but then at the summit in Brussels, had little courage and little momentum to implement it. This independent attitude of Austria has once again been positive. However, I nevertheless consider the principle of this result to be negative. The decision to enter into accession negotiations with Turkey on the European Union is a mistake, an absolute mistake! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A wrong strategy of the European Union in recent years, perhaps even decades, will continue. Even if you talk to the diplomats in Brussels, no one assumes that Turkey will be able to become a full member of this European Union now or in the foreseeable future. You just don't want to tell her, because for years and decades Turkey has been almost kept the carrot in the nose and said: You'll join sometime! Step by step, 1999 this mistake happened – also with the support of SPÖ Federal Chancellor climate – that Turkey was given candidate status. And again today: Today, politicians and diplomats decide on this issue, which will be presented for decision only in 15 or 20 years. They say: We are all no longer in office, and that is why we do not want to face up to this difficult but honest discussion and discussion with Turkey. I say: If you have an important relationship with Turkey – and that is important to me – then this decision is wrong. For us, Turkey is a strategic, a political, an economically important country. Of course! That is why we are in favour of close relations between the European Union and Turkey. That is why it is also wrong to discuss ten or 15 years now about accession, which, I hope, cannot and will not become reality, rather than discussing quickly, not in years, but in months, alternatives to this full membership, as we have suggested: a partnership for Europe, for all those countries that cannot or do not want to become full members of the European Union, but in which we can clearly define and quickly implement these bilateral relations between the EU and Turkey. Unfortunately, in the European Union too, theory and practice have once again developed very far apart. No one here has clearly said that Turkey meets the criteria. It's true: Reforms are being made. But, ladies and gentlemen, being included in the European Union community of values is more necessary than just deciding on any reversible law in a parliament. These values in the field of human rights, minority rights, tolerance for women, tolerance for dissidents and tolerance for other religions are whether these measures, whether they are also carried by society. And you know very well that this is not the case in Turkey. It is also always the question: Are reforms irreversible or are they reversible? And the reforms that are being made in Turkey are unfortunately not irreversible. We all look at Turkey with concern before every choice, whether or not any radical groups come closer to the row. We are concerned about Turkey's position of power in the army. Of course, this does not matter to us, because we all hope that democratisation will continue, but if it goes in a different direction, it will have all the consequences for us. All the more massive are these effects when it comes to an EU Member State, and we must prevent this in the interests of Europe, in the interests of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] One last argument: the recognition of Cyprus. Let us just think about these angle trains – I can say so – which have been made because Turkey was not willing to say openly: Yes, we also politically acknowledge the Republic of Cyprus as a member country of this European Union! If this is a problem to say it openly and honestly, I really wonder: What is the meaning of accession negotiations? It should also be remembered that Turkish military continues to occupy part of the EU Member State Cyprus. All of this really raises the question: How far do those responsible for the European Union take themselves seriously when they speak of the fundamental values of this Union? They also know very well that the vast majority of the population are opposed to these initiatives. We have made this clear, also in the main committee – the decisions have been taken differently. Now it is for us to ensure that, in Austria, if these negotiations – which we do not hope to do – end up in the direction of Turkey's membership in the European Union, the people who will ultimately also have to pay the bill will take the decision. Mr Cap, it was interesting what you have been talking about here 30 seconds before the end of your speech. They have said that it is not necessary to vote afterwards, but to question the people in advance. – You want to hide behind the opinion of the people, but how is it supposed to work to vote on something that is not yet on the table? We, ladies and gentlemen, are moving on the basis of the Austrian federal constitution. We already want to anchor this legally, and that is why the Convention should treat it. It must be clear: If in ten, 15 years there is a government in which the liberals are involved, then this question will not arise, because we will also vote against Turkey's accession! When it comes to preventing a two-thirds majority from joining Parliament, and we can do that, then we will do so. But, ladies and gentlemen, we already want to fix today that in the event that in future a government or parliament in Austria is voting for Turkey's accession, the final decision, as the Austrian federal constitution provides, has to meet the Austrian population. This is what this motion for a resolution says! Mr Cap, I do not understand why you are against the fact that, in the end, the Austrian people decide – not only is they questioned, but they decide. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: zigzag course!]] This is another example not for a zigzag, but for a zig-cap course in Austrian social democracy, but you will have to justify that. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] I only hope, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that you are still reasonable, especially you, from Social Democracy: away from such plattites and placebos, to constitutional conformity, proper action to carry out a referendum before Turkey's accession to the European Union! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: We are very reasonable!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e3265	Now Mrs Bundesminister für Innens Lies Prokopzu spoke. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e3287	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has just been two and a half hours since the President praised me. Traditionally, the first way of a new minister is to go to Parliament, and I can say that I am pleased that I have the opportunity to present my positions and my ideas a little. Ladies and gentlemen! Ensuring security in our country is a very, very important task. I firmly believe that it is simply a matter of ensuring that all those responsible are working together on fundamental issues in this area – only then will this really work! This applies to the Federation, which applies to the countries, which applies to the municipalities, which also applies – very importantly – to the parties represented in Parliament. The challenges that this office presents are enormous. I knew that. That is why I have thought very carefully about it, and I can say today: I am looking forward to this task in the Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I will try to bring in my best, as I have done for 23 years in the state government in Lower Austria. We didn't always have absolute Most of them in the government, and so I was used to working on a team, and I'm going to do it here. I have never sought my status as a woman to be treated accordingly, but I have always tried to do my job as best I can, and I want to keep it that way in the Federal Government. I know a number of important tasks are waiting for me in the Ministry of the Interior. But I also know that Minister Strasser leaves behind a really well-ordered house. The course is set. I would like to thank him, especially the more than 31,000 officials of the resort today. They ensure safety day and night, and their successful and consistent work is due to Austria being one of the safest countries in the world. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll try to keep it that way. Security for all people in our country is simply the ultimate goal. It is important to combat crime with all appropriate means. It is important to develop tailored regional security concepts for and with the federal states. The safety device must be further modernised and the legal bases adapted to the changed situations. Above all, it is very important to maintain international cooperation, because security problems do not stop at borders, they simply have to be treated and operated cross-border. It is gratifying that criminal statistics again signal a positive development for the first time. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that the best crime statistics are nothing if this is not confirmed in the sense of people. It is therefore necessary to work consistently and emphatically to further increase the positive development, but above all to make it felt for people. The central basis for this is the creation of a single modern police force for the whole of Austria. The initiated merger police, gendarmerie and customs guard will be implemented as planned. At the same time, I am well aware that such a century work also entails problems and uncertainties. To resolve these conflicts and, above all, to address the fears of employees, this will be one of the most pressing tasks. In the coming weeks and months, I will be looking for more dialogue with the staff members in the executive and also trying to make a personal picture of what additional measures are needed in the implementation of “team04”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As a central task, I see that in addition to the organizational merger, which is not only a change of clothing or a car discoloration with God, the internal integration of police and Gendarmerie also succeeds. The second major focus is on creating the most effective and at the same time human asylum system. The aim of this asylum system is to continue to work in the great tradition of Austrian willingness to help, but to prove itself in the reality of today's Europe and, above all, to move into it. Three principles apply to this objective: Help about what is needed, stop where it is about abuse – and punishment where crime is concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The fact that the human side of course has to be taken into account, however, has already proved this federal government: The Treaty between the Federal Government and the Länder ensures that vulnerable foreigners are adequately cared for and that: Costs are divided in solidarity. But whoever violates our laws cannot expect to stay with us. It must be clear to all of us that problems such as combating crime and dealing with the issue of asylum can only be driven forward in close international cooperation if it is to promise success. This cooperation must take place primarily with our partners in Central Europe. More security in our immediate environment is simply more security for Austria. Therefore, it is about further strengthening close cooperation with Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary – the so-called Salzburg Group – that is a high priority, but we also need to cooperate closely with the other partners in the EU, especially when it comes to preparing the Austrian EU Presidency in the first half of 2006. For this EU Presidency, I see four major tasks: on the one hand, the optimum security for all those involved, with as few restrictions as possible for the citizens of our country, on the other hand, the further introduction of the countries of the Western Balkans to the security standards as we can of course, because it simply benefits us in Austria too, on the other hand, the determined fight against crime and corruption in the geographical environment of the European Union, because it is otherwise insecurity in Austria, and on the fourth – and I think this is very important – the creation of a police cooperation as close as possible as possible within the European Union, so that Europe is not only a common area of freedom and economy, but also an area of common security for citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As a new Minister of the Interior, I am proud that Austria has already played and plays a leading role in the cooperation. We are currently in police cooperation in the EU Summit Group. It is now working together with Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands on Schengen III – a particularly close form of police cooperation – and I hope that this Treaty will also be signed by mid-2005. This security cooperation may be a model for a pan-European Union. The third priority is the field of civil service. I know from my experience as a social councillor, what impressive, often moving encounters and work there is. I really know what it's all about. I know what civil servants are doing, but I know above all what our relief, care and rescue organizations are doing, and I know that the operation of these systems is simply dependent on civil service. That is why I am referring to three points: In the sense of social security for Austria, civil service must remain in good shape, the best possible conditions for civil servants must be created, and we will also discuss a reduction in civil service. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] At the end of January, I expect a proposal from the Civil Service Reform Commission and wish that we can find a good solution on a broad basis and with the involvement of all concerned. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign again.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes me – and I would like to sum up the most important objectives. [[General cheerfulness, as President Dr. Khol has already drawn attention to the end of the speaking time with the bell sign.]] - Is it over yet? We want Austria to remain one of the safest countries, we want to continue until 1. In June 2005, a modern uniform police system was presented to the population, We are working effectively on a human asylum system, we want to support international cooperation, we will prepare the EU Presidency accordingly, and civil service will have to continue to play an important role. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign again.]] I want to go this way with you, with as many as possible, with the countries, with the employees, but also with the political parties. Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to cooperate and wish you also blessed Christmas.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e3444	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darabos. His speaking time is 8 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e3496	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! [[Abg. Grill: Darabos! Sorry!]] High house! Mr Grillitsch, I say quite frankly: Discrimination of age is absurd! [[Abg. Grill: Don't you know what you're saying?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I led the Heinz Fischer election campaign, which is a mid-60s, so these are too short of your accusations. But I am not willing to say, in the event that the woman minister feels personally affected: That wasn't my intention! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] High house! We stand at the end of 2004, and also government reform in the inner resort now, at the end of the year, offers the opportunity to look back a little bit. The OGM study yesterday concludes that 76 percent of Austrians believe that 2004 was a bad year for FPÖ. The EIA will also be assessed negatively in 2004; 44 percent of respondents believe that the ÖVP had a bad year, only 27 percent speak of a positive year. [[Abg. Großruck: Don't tell fairy tales!]] Why is that so? – Quite logical: We have a year behind us, which was marked by social reduction and – a new facet of black and blue politics – massive democracy reduction in Austria. We also have a year behind us – and I am therefore on the subject – which also created problems for people in the security field, a year in which people no longer had such great confidence in the politics and also in the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior by Ernst Strasser. One could say, as it were, pre-Christmas: Ernst Strasser goes, hopefully a better security and asylum policy will come! – This could be done if there were not the accompanying circumstances that led to this resignation. Even if Ernst Strasser goes: The turbulences in the bowl cabinet remain the same – and are becoming more and more intense. Schwarz-Blau has not ruled for five years now, and in this period 13 ministers have come to the Federal Chancellor. 13 Minister! [[Abg. Großruck: Darabos’ fairy tale hour is that!]] That is the truth, Mr Colleague. I acknowledge that most of these government reforms go to the account of the FPÖ, but the “detest” of the ÖVP – the Federal Chancellor has spoken of double play; this is actually a double game – the “smear” of the ÖVP: left to rest, while the FPÖ disintegrates into its components, no longer since Ernst Straster’s resignation. This resignation of Strass represents an accelerated phenomenon of the erosion process of this government. It is a symbol of the state of the ÖVP, which obviously had to deal with significant wear and tear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This double game I've been talking about is probably the best way to hang up at the Strasser retreat. If Ernst Strasser – after saying that he is going to the private sector – goes towards Bundeskanzler Schüssel himself says: “There were several conversations with a bowl where I said I stopped, but he didn’t believe I was serious. He always believes that it must go after his skull.” – This is how the smooth, harmonious transition in the Ministry of Brand Schüssel/Strasser looks out. The announcements made by Strasser have not been made. At the beginning of his work, where he hanged a liberal coat, Strasser claimed that he wanted to lead the Ministry of the Interior as a “red-and-white-red ministry” – also that of the Federal Chancellor just repeated. Red and white red is obviously a coloration in the direction of black, passing over it. [[Abg. Großruck: Did you write this speech to Mrs Bures?]] And one should not hide and look at the facts more closely, Mr. Cot, Ernst Strasser has failed in his actual responsibility in the field of security. [[Abg. Grossruck: Has this speech put to you Mrs Bures?]] Crime has accelerated to more than 700 000 cases from under 500,000 criminal acts in 1999, i.e. among Social Democratic Ministers of the Interior, and the Enlightenment Rate among Social Democratic Ministers was well over 50 percent, under Strasser only 37 percent. – So Strasser leaves behind a sniper pile, which is now allowed to clean up his successor. There are several open construction sites in the interior resort – which was addressed. The Asylum Act, like so many other Strasser templates, was tilted by the Constitutional Court. Instead of providing solutions, the ÖVP currently offers at least only dumping populism. Civil service reform has not gone beyond the finish line. That's why Strasser's statement is that he'd done everything, so to speak, Schimaire. The bowl was required to change the horses in the gallop, important things are in angry and are still open. No one can envy the new Minister of the Interior for this starting point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] No one can take responsibility for you, Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel, but the responsibility for a security policy – and I hope you will, at least on this point – will be sent to such a mine field so far completely inexperienced politician. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, it's not completely inexperienced!]] From my point of view, I can offer the following: If you, Mrs Minister, are prepared to involve the opposition in the negotiations on a better asylum law, to carry out a change of course in security policy leading to an increase in staff and a strengthening of decentralised security structures, if you, Mrs. Minister, ensure that the main criterion for the occupations in the security field is not the ÖVP book, if you ensure that the results of the Civil Service Reform Commission are also democratically reviewed and implemented, then you can expect the cooperation and support of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The chance for a new start, however, was missed by Federal Chancellor Schüssel. And let's be honest: There is hardly a political commentator – which is why the attacks on me are also very short-cut – who did not comment on this change in the Ministry of the Interior with some discomfort. Thus Martina Salomon wrote in the “Press, ” truly not a precursor of the SPÖ: “An innovative sign is not this. ” [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: What?]] “Everything but a sign of renewal,” says Michael Volks in the “standard”. “Nothing but an interim solution,” says Andreas Koller in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”. Further: “A sign of the future, however, has really not succeeded in the chancellor,” says Günther Schröder in the “Tyroler Zeitung”. – And you're going to go on me?- Oh, my God! Obviously, all the chief commentators in Austria do not see this as a sign of renewal either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Don't be afraid, Mr. Darabos!]] Coming to a conclusion: The kitt that holds this government together is the fear of the loss of power, Mr Molterer, and of the change. We don't care. It is not indifferent to us, however, if nothing goes on in the field of physical work. It may even be politically right for us if the black and blue cabinet, as it were, blows out of the last hole, but in the interests of Austria, we wish for an actionable federal government, one that is also dialogueal and reformable. Mr Molterer, you are obviously not. 67 percent of Austrians want a new, a social government, and the majority of Austrians would also like to see greater government reform, for example in the health sector, where Mrs Rauch-Kallat does nothing further, for example in the Ministry of Finance, where the reforms that Grasser has promised are now in Austria's highest budget deficit, or for example – even here you will not be able to contradict – in the Ministry of Education and Education of the Minister Gehrer, who has not recognized the signs of the time. [[Abg. Großruck: Have you participated in the PISA study?]] [[Ironic cheerfulness of the Federal Minister for Smoking-Kallat]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you would have been invited to carry out a greater government transformation. We can say that we will go hand in hand with the Minister's policy, but a renewal of Austria is not our conviction.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e3696	The next speaker is Mr Dr Fassleven. Speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e3714	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With Lies Prokop today is undoubtedly an extraordinary personality, an extraordinary woman as an interior minister of Austria has been praised. It is not only unusual for a woman to be an interior minister, she is the first woman in Austria, but probably also in Europe, indeed one of the first women in the world to become an interior minister, but she has also shown very impressively what she can do in her previous life and career. I do not want to go into what is already known by the media, but I would like to address the personality that I myself have had opportunity to get to know in the last decades. I got to know Lese Prokop when she became a countryman in Lower Austria 35 years ago, to the surprise of all, and she was a very successful countryman within a very short time. Later I had the opportunity – there was already Lese Prokop, a member of the state government – to work closely with her. And I can only say: It has always been a pleasure; a pleasure, because one has not only felt the human warmth and competence, but also this material competence which it has brought in, and this degree of decision-making and enforcement, which is necessary for top positions both in the country and in the Federation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Also top people sometimes have small weaknesses and mistakes, and Read Prokop is said to be not always very punctual at all dates. But it's quite interesting to know why it usually doesn't come on time. She is a person who prepares for every conversation, and one can almost certainly assume that she made a call before, has held a short conversation in order to obtain additional information. Then she goes into the conversation, then she listens, and then she is often, especially in the most difficult situations, the one who first takes the initiative, which is clear and clear as to what she wants and in which direction it should go, and which then enforces it with all the consequence. [[Abg. Heinzl: Do you tell us a Christmas fairy tale?]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Do you remember anything else?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can only say: I also imagine such a personality as a head of the Ministry of the Interior – one that has been familiar with security tasks since her youth. I just had to laugh when I read statements from colleague Darabos in the paper. This only shows that he really has no idea that he just wasn't informed. You have to know, Lese Prokop, as the daughter of a district chief, has also moved through the countries of Lower Austria. Everyone who has been a little concerned knows that the district captain is the first security authority. Read Prokop has already experienced as a child that her father got up at night because of a police deployment. She has already experienced as a child what it means to tackle crime effectively. And, of course, in her later career as head of state, she has also experienced the full range of security tasks that a country captain has to deal with, not only because she often had to represent the head of state of Lower Austria and thus the largest country of Austria, but also because he has very much agreed with all his important decisions with her. Security issues are absolutely nothing new for them, but – quite the contrary –: Read Prokop has been working on it for years, even for decades. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For me, it was no surprise, therefore, that she has put this safety aspect in the foreground of her remarks today: Security for citizens, to give people the sense of security, and to do so in clear terms. Yes, she has addressed the aid, but also the punishment, and she has also mentioned that she will be willing to fight crime by all means. I expect a minister of the interior, so I know that this place will be in the best hands at Lies Prokop. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you really want to say something, you can say – I want to say that to my male colleagues – that we will have to be careful in the future. It's already 4 : 4, we've heard. The question of quotas for men is a question we may have to ask ourselves. We hope, of course, for the support of women. They are used to it and know how to deal with such a situation and how they can be heard accordingly. A last word on Turkey's accession to the EU. I believe that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has succeeded in bringing out a great deal at European level for Austria, not only for Austria, but for Europe as a whole, because this automatic accession is not available for the first time, because it has succeeded in accusing that other solutions must be possible, because the'stop button', as recognised by all international media, has been incorporated, because it is clear that the people will decide with it. I recall the words of the former French EU minister who led the negotiations with Austria. He said a few weeks ago in Austria: Europe is not only the Europe of the States, but also the Europe of the citizens! . I therefore believe it is not only right, but absolutely important that citizens should therefore also have the opportunity to decide when it comes to making such an important decision as Turkey's reception. There will be no EU accession of Turkey if the people do not want it! And we owe this clear statement to the Federal Chancellor. And for that, Mr. Federal Chancellor, also a warm thanks!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e3825	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Pillow. His speaking time is 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e3844	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop, I do not want to say that your idea in this House today was quite sympathetic, and that is an impression that many of the opposition certainly share with me personally. And that's not the worst thing you can say in the first performance of a minister. But you know, I assume that after this week of personal preparation for your new office of just as good as all the Members of this House: that you take over a place whose future is anything but clear. Sympathy, a sympathetic appearance and a sympathetic kind can make the beginning easier for you – but with sympathy alone you will not be able to solve the problems of the interior resort. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: With competence!]] They; Mrs. Federal Minister, this week we must have found that in some areas the work of the Ministry is getting under way and in key areas the future of the house is completely unclear. I'm just telling you a few examples: You should have found this week that, if you continue the free movement course in asylum policy, you will always be faced with the insurmountable obstacle of the Constitutional Court. And you should have found an answer to the question this week, whether it is worth it, as the course of Minister of the Interior Ernst Strasser continues to bend and break. Does it really make sense to meet your liberal coalition partner, continue to stretch the Austrian constitution beyond the legal boundaries and break it over and over again? Or is it not possible to finally re-establish a constitutional reform of an asylum, human rights and integration policy? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You know, your second task, the fight against crime, especially in the Greater Vienna region and thus also in Lower Austria, is in the crisis. Interior Minister Strasser has done something that is absolutely not responsible: He has deducted officials from the fight against crime, in particular from the field of burglary thefts, in order to carry out large, public show ratios against street dealers, especially in Vienna, according to the recipe: Lock in in the evening, run back in the morning. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Not true!]] Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop, you know that you can solve the problem of drug policy, not only in Vienna, only if you get support from other parts of the government if you do not stop the police from solving a problem that the police as such cannot solve. Either there is a serious drug policy that is geared towards the necessary other dealing with addictions – or you continue to send your criminal officials in hopeless pursuits, and every year on the basis of crime statistics, you will have to find that you have failed. There is a third important point: Many officials of your resort are discouraged because the Minister of the Interior has asked them one question more and more strongly: Which party book do you have? There has never been such a radical and broad political overcoloring of a place. There have never been so many officials who do not know what their professional future is, because they do not have a party book of the Austrian People's Party! And never before have so many criminal officials, especially in Vienna, gone in early retirement because they no longer endured the political pressure in the house. And here too, you owe an answer: Will you end the party book economy in your home – or will you continue the line of the Lower Austrian ÖVP in the inner resort? One last big question is the question of civil service. How will you deal with civil service? It does not help civil servants much if you say civil service is something good that civil servants should be supported and we will talk about shortening civil service. Mrs. Federal Minister! We have long been talking about the reduction of civil service! This is an old debate! But for those present, the reduction of the presence service is already decided. Why do you have no answer to the questions today not only to the civil servant, to how many months will be reduced to what time of civil service? Why Bring You don't have the two simple words “six months ” over your lips? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why are you not willing to treat civil servants at the same time, and why are you not willing to follow a decision of the Upper Austrian Parliament where the Upper Austrian ÖVP, together with us Greens of the Federal Government and the then Minister of the Interior, has said how it could go? That's the problem, Mrs. Federal Minister! You would have had the opportunity today to give at least four concrete answers to four major questions. We do not know whether you are continuing Ernst Strasser's course – or whether you have the courage and insight into the need for a big change of course. It is not only about the question of humanity, which would only be a sufficient reason for changing courses, but also about the question of reason. Against the Constitutional Court, against de-motivated officials, against dissidents, against public criticism and, finally, against the Parliament, you too, with all the support of the ÖVP in Lower Austria and in Vienna, cannot lead the interior resort! Ernst Strasser failed not only because his course was inhuman, but Ernst Strasser also failed because his course was unreasonable because he underestimated the resistance because he believed he could go through the Constitution and through public criticism. It didn't work! The Austrian Federal Constitution was stronger than Ernst Strasser, and it would be important for a newly appointed Minister of the Interior to take public note of it and give the National Council a single important message: Yes, I have understood why Ernst Strasser has resigned, and I am trying to start a political new beginning in public security with the officials and the entire House discussing here! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now a brief final remark on Turkey's accession to the EU. Mr Bundeskanzler, two questions: First: Faith Do you really think that at a time when you are a 75-year-old old chancellor you will long enjoy the pension and will hopefully enjoy the best health, a federal government and a national council with a completely different composition will then follow the “Schüssel/Scheibner-Pakt”? Would you like to make yourself here today, if there were something like this: Yes, 15 or 20 years ago, there was the “steer/Sinowatz-Pact”, and I am now forced to put it into practice!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr Bundeskanzler, this is something unscrupulous, and I would also like to ask you to deal with Turkey's accession and Austria's contribution to this with the necessary seriality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e3920	Next word: Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Speech time: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e3938	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am not the advocate of the Deputy Minister of the Interior of Strasser, but my sense of justice, which I have still received, despite more than 20 years of activity here in the house, is really opposed to that They pretend from the opposition as if the Minister of the Interior had deliberately formulated a law in his ministry which is unconstitutional. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Of course he did!]] I mean, you know very well that the Constitutional Service has been questioned that constitutional experts from the Ministry have examined the matter. But it's quite easy today, much more difficult than a few years ago, to definitely say... [[Abg. Arbitrator: Dolus it was!]] – “Dolus” is the intention, I dispute. It is much, much more difficult today to say with certainty that something will be held at the Constitutional Court. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I have already quoted it here and I would like to do it again because I now have the quote completely. The well-known constitutional lawyer Dr. Matscher said: “By God, by the courts and by the seafaring, nothing is excluded.” – And that is really true. We always experience surprises at the highest courts. You have to take note of this. But, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the appointment of the new Minister for the Interior is concerned. It took exactly 11 days for this dangerous condition you forecast to be: The concentration of power in the hands of a minister was over. The Federal Chancellor has set up a new Minister of the Interior within 11 days – and once again you have seen from the opposition that what you are holding out to the government, namely, inability to act, was once again wrong. This government has shown that it is operational, as well as in many other areas. For example, Mr Darabos said that the government is in an erosion process. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yes Believe You really, a government that is being eroded could enforce such reforms as they are now taking place: Pension reform, health reform? In every respect, the government is working on what you have neglected in the 30 years of your government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As far as your policy is concerned, you can see how insulting you have been to the new minister. Mr Darabos has made such a half-hearted apologies today. You talked about the last offer. The Minister of the Interior would not be the first choice. It's not a reputation for bowls. – All of this you have said, and you are still defending it, Mrs Bures! I think that's really annoyed! Mr Darabos has already been put to the fore: It is quite strange that a 63-year-old takes over the place. – I would like to urge that on most occasions, even if you may say so, because it is already so old. But I say: Youth alone is not a quality criterion yet! – Mr Darabos, you are the living proof of this! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It really surprises me that the socialist women have not found anything in it, because that is another argument that is being put against women. A man with 66 years of age has now become Federal President. The Socialist Party has not found anything that candidates a 66-year-old. But if a 63-year-old woman becomes an interior minister, then this is strange immediately. Mrs Bures, you should have told Mr Darabos your opinion. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – What does “worship” mean? I'm not sorry! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is your way of making policy: Get down, make dirty, and insult! That's what we're going to experience again and again! But I am now dealing with something more important than with Mr Darabos or also Mrs Bures, namely internal security. Mrs Minister, there are, of course, real problems, which have not been caused by Minister Strasser or by this government coalition, but we are facing challenges that have not existed five or six years ago. No socialist Minister of the Interior had to deal with the effects of Schengen in such a massive way as we now have to do. We have always warned that the Schengen Treaty will also address huge security issues in Austria. Now we know that huge numbers of people are coming to Austria to engage in criminal activity. No socialist Minister of the Interior has had to struggle with such a great flood of asylum. In the 1990s, there were between 10,000 and 20,000 asylum seekers who came to Austria; in 2003 there were 36 000. Of course, these are very, very big tasks that come to you. And we have to do with a large-scale abuse of our right of asylum, which has been mentioned several times. Yesterday, for example, you can tell the newspapers that the head of a large tow band was a woman, a Moldovan who earned €7.5 million with her tow ring – and still refers to emergency aid. You really have to do something. I am very glad, Madam Minister, that you have already said that you will be hard to deal with abuse. And you know, that's what we want. It is not a question, as Mr Pilz said, of implementing a reprehensible free asylum policy, but rather of: We want to prevent abuse, and we want those who really need asylum to be granted asylum for the reasons set out in the Geneva Convention. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, you will see when it comes to real reforms and new standards to prevent the abuse of asylum, then you will not be able to rely on the opposition and not on the NGOs. They are still experiencing, but there you will immediately be accused of “inhumanity ” and“ illegal action. ” I have already experienced this at Schlögl and also at the Minister of Interior Strasser. Trust in your coalition partner, then you will be well advised! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, Mrs Prokop, said you want to make a human asylum policy. Mrs Bures also asked for this: a human policy. We also want a human asylum policy, but this asylum policy must also be human and serious to the Austrians who need to finance this policy and who must also cope with the criminal use of the asylum law by many asylum seekers. There is, as has been said, an acute need for action. That's it. The Federal Chancellor has said that, in part, you have the right to work in a place of business, which in fact only has a shadow side to offer. I want to correct him: They also deal with 30,000 executive officials. This work is difficult, but it is certainly not the “shadow side. ” I think it is a rewarding and beautiful task to motivate these executive officials again, and I wish you much success.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4036	The next item is Mr Gorbach. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4054	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. As well as the Federal Chancellor, I should like to welcome the new Minister Lese Prokop to the government team, in a very good government team, which has just made a mid-term report and has been able to show that many of the projects have been done well, including in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, and also in this important, sensitive area of security. That means that many of these matters are done, the choices are set correctly, but there are still a lot of things to be done. And some obstacles will certainly be there again or set up. It needs some jump or sprint, no matter what. We liberals – I can say that – will give you, my dear colleague Prokop, the necessary backwind, and I expect not only good cooperation but also expressly offer it to my ministry. As Minister of Transport, I can say that our house will be able to work with you and your people in some areas, and I hope it works as well as with your predecessor Ernst Strasser. You, colleague Lies Prokop, bring the necessary armor for this task, no question! And: I personally like that someone who after decades successful national policy in the Landtag goes into federal politics and becomes a member of the Federal Government. This is a good condition – in addition to other good qualities such as experience and the necessary age – to address certain things with reason in such a sensitive area. Good luck! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am of course also pleased that the model of FPÖ, namely to nominate the first Minister of Justice into the Austrian Federal Government, to make a school and to nominate Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel with Lese Prokopdie's first Minister of the Interior in Austria. We've already heard: Half of the ministers belonging to the Austrian People's Party are female. This should not only be right for us, but we are pleased about it – and we are also pleased about the good and successful start of my colleague Karin Miklauch. – I wish you, dear Lies Prokop, the same good start, a lot of joy, fun and success at work! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Let me also make a few fundamental comments, as soon as possible, about the possible accession of Turkey to the EU. The position of the Freedom Party in favour of Turkey's accession to the European Union in principle has not changed at all! On the contrary! For this reason, we are also very critical of the entry into negotiations with Turkey, which have now been decided. We liberals did not want to negotiate with the aim of full accession to Turkey, but rather with a view to a privileged partnership, especially at economic level, but also at other levels. That's why: Our attitude has not changed! In Stakkato form some reasons for this: Geographically and geopolitically, it is clear that much of Turkey is not within the growing borders of the European Union. The EU would then be bordering on such crisis spots as Syria, Iran or Iraq. That alone must give us some thought – and it also makes clear why the Austrian people think as they just think and rightly have fears. As regards the economic aspect of Turkey's possible accession to the EU: We must remember that the standard of living in Turkey is one-fifth of the EU's average per capita, i.e. mile-wide differences! We need to know that in Turkey 40 percent of all workers work in agriculture. The whole financial structure would come out of margin and band. And we must also know that 20 percent of the 70 million Turks are unemployed! A migration then went on full! We also need to know that what is going on in Turkey is constitutional concerns, such as discrimination against women, in order to give just one example. We must also know that there are “Islamic laws” that it is culturally quite different from with us. The fears are thus justified, therefore: It remains with our negative and critical attitude! But to us, it is obvious that our long-term idea and idea of integrating the population into so sensitive questions has been included and broad consensus has been found. Therefore: People's vote on it, including a European referendum, although I believe that a national priority must be given. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I have considered your requests carefully, both the SPÖ's request and the Greens' request, but would like to say: I do not understand why you have tabled our motion for a resolution today. I do not wish to vote in favour. Then at least take part in a four-party deal! Someone of you said: Today it is not possible!, therefore: Perhaps tomorrow – or, if it should be, after Christmas; the Advent season is a time of reflection. In this sense, I wish you a good Christmas!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4187	In accordance with the agreement, I will divide the next round of speakers into 4 minutes per speaker/pro speaker and will allow me to finish a few seconds before and pay very close attention to compliance with the speaking time. Mr President, you are the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4209	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer speaks to Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Very soon: Mr Bundeskanzler, the decision of the European Council of 17 December 1990 December does not take into account the interests and concerns of a large part of the Austrian population! [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Federal Chancellor speaks!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, we have called very strongly on you to focus your entire commitment on finally putting the wishes of the people at the centre of European policy. [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer continues to speak with Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] – Mr Federal Chancellor, I would be happy if you would also give me your attention! [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] We believe that it is important that all the strength of the EU at present, that all the strength of the Austrian Federal Government, is focused on the interests of the population, is in the foreground! First of all, it is about creating work in Europe, creating an economic policy, which will ensure that all people in Europe get work. Secondly, it is about pursuing a policy of peace, and it is therefore also about making an appropriate European foreign policy – without constantly relying solely on military instruments. Thirdly, to ensure security, close and friendly cooperation with neighbouring countries is used in order to effectively combat cross-border crime. I mean, these things, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, priority must be given to considering an additional enlargement! This is the point that we have referred to by the SPÖ. ==References====External links== December 2004 is not a good day because both the decision to start negotiations with Turkey in October next year and the decision, Mr. Federal Chancellor, to vote for a referendum, as you have done, in fact does not constitute a good testimony to the credibility of politics! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We from the SPÖ are also in favour of making Europe-wide referendums on this, and we are also in favour of seriously thinking about where decisions of the population can take place, but what you have promised, Mr Bundeskanzler, is in reality an empty promise, one that may be settled in 15 years, if a corresponding majority is in favour of Parliament. In this context, I should like to make the following request from my group: [[Quoted print version removed]] We think this is very urgent, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the end of the day, however, let me also say a word in the direction of Federal Minister Prokop. Mrs. Federal Minister, you are experienced with God enough not to have to accept advice from former interior ministers who are politically surviving. I also believe that you do not need any advice on content, but I would like to support you in a point made in your speech. I would like to remind you that Mrs Prokop, the Federal Minister, is really listening to the police, to the Gendarmen, to the criminal officials working on the ground. [[Abg. Rossmann: As an interior minister, you didn't do this!]] Visit them, listen to them! because this will help you and benefit the officials, because just after all these wild changes in the Ministry of Interior, the officials deserved that you really listen to them! [[Abg. Rossmann: You didn't listen to her!]] Ms former Secretary of State: In the 22 months in which I was Minister of the Interior, I have visited more than 170 offices! [[Calls: That's not true]] This is very useful, and I can only put Mrs Prokop on the way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We wish you, Minister of State Prokop, luck for your task! But we also wish you success as an opposition, in the interests of the security of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4384	The next item is the speech by Mr Kößl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4405	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Madam Minister of the Interior Prokop! Today is an important day for the history of the Republic of Austria: Today, not only a change in the Federal Government will be carried out, but with today's day, a woman will also take responsibility for the state's core security for the first time in the history of our country. It was and is a wise political decision; I congratulate this decision and wish the new Minister all the best for her work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let me make a few personal comments on the person of our wife Interior Minister Lies Prokop. For more than 20 years I have been active in the local politics of Lower Austria, since that time I have known and valued our new Minister of the Interior Lese Prokop. I know her work for Lower Austria, for the people of Lower Austria. I know Read Prokop's handshake quality and their daily humanity. She was not only a contact in social matters, but also: Read Prokopist a full pro with heart and mind! Today in the early days, our former vice chancellor, Dr. Alois Mock, said: Read Prokopist not only a full political pro, but also a “political success”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In her remarks, Federal Minister Prokop has already stressed that she continues the good work of her predecessor Dr. Ernst Strasser, that she will end the beginning, such as the legally decided merger of the two guards Gendarmerie and police. Now it is about implementation – and in the end a modern and uniform federal guard body with a slim management level and more officials in the foreign service will ensure security in our country. One does not need to be a prophet to know that one cannot deal with the challenges of the future with structures of the past. The reform steps that have been taken so far were important and correct – and this path must be pursued quickly; our Minister of State Lese Prokopist is a guarantee for this. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Read Prokophat proved in the past that it deals with difficult tasks with enforcement, but also with the necessary fingertips. A personality with management qualities needs at the forefront for the challenges that are to come through the merger of the two guards as well as a reorientation in connection with the asylum law. I am convinced that Lese Prokopuch will be an excellent interior minister for some 30,000 officials in the executive service and for some 5,000 people in the administration of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. From this point of view – and since Christmas is at the doorstep – I would like to wish my colleagues outside the services not only a happy Christmas, but above all a thank you for the excellent work done in the year to end!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4496	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4516	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen behind me, ladies and gentlemen in front of me, ladies and gentlemen Ladies and gentlemen at home: dobar then! Thank you, Mrs Prokop! Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel has introduced you here in Parliament today with the description that you are a woman who has a social sense as well as a sense of human measure, a woman who has courage to decide because you have proved all this in the past, says the Federal Chancellor. Mrs Federal Minister Prokop, I have never had any political dealings with you so far. In the future, we will have much to do with what I hope – hopefully more than that at Your predecessor, Strasser, was the case, because Minister Strasser pushed people out of the boat, so to speak, instead of getting them into the boat – that is the main accusation that we still make after his departure. For example, with the non-in-boats, I mean those organisations in Austria that work in the field of human rights. Now I come to speak in a social sense and in a human way – and you certainly know that I am responsible for the Green Group on the issues of foreign law and asylum as well as their human rights spokesperson. To get out of the boat and not to get into the boat was the political style of Ernst Strass. Federal Minister Strasser has been cooperating with refugee organisations, has refused to cooperate with NGOs in the field of human rights, for example, as well as with the churches, which, for decades, has contributed significantly to Austria's reputation that our country is one that takes up refugees! So Federal Minister Strasser refused to cooperate with these organizations – and he simply ignored the opposition's proposals, ignored the input that the opposition brings! Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop, I do not want to say that you have received from the opposition today something like a ‘pre-emptive confidence’, and that is because we expect you to have a change of course in political style and policy content, because such a change is just as necessary. This, Mrs Federal Minister, which was obviously the case in your political past and which characterizes you so to speak, is also to be fulfilled by you as a member of a federal government with political content. Ernst Strasser has left behind the government of the law – and I only count on the findings of the Constitutional Court: Community law, EC internal market, EC internal market, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, The ignorance shown by Ernst Strasser with his comments on these, of course not very pleasant for a minister, even embarrassing for the government's findings of the Constitutional Court, has moved us more than in the last few weeks. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would therefore like to say to you: I am not sorry for Ernst Strasser, because with him exactly what I would like to emphasize in the area, which I would like to emphasize, and for which you, Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop, unfortunately, have missed any concrete statement today, would not happen, namely, to tackle the fact that asylum proceedings take years, sometimes decades, because there is no staff, neither at the Bundesasylamt nor at the independent Bundesasylsenat. Ms Prokop, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, on proposals from the opposition, the churches and refugee organizations, a constitutional agreement, fully and fully in line with the principles of the Geneva Convention on Refugees. To put law on the table, you have completely kept silent! After your presentation here, Mrs. Federal Minister, I have no idea in which direction you are going to change your course! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Mrs Federal Minister Prokop, not only because Christmas is now, but because I also practice female solidarity, I would like to give you, also on behalf of my group's colleagues, a chance, so to speak, a second in this area, but that is the last one.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4599	The next item is the speech by Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4617	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The EU summit last weekend is truly remarkable in many areas. Nor do we liberals make any sense that we would have preferred it if the EU Heads of Government had not decided on accession negotiations with Turkey, because that would have been more honest! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, these negotiations have also been agreed on conditions which are quite welcome in many areas, things which we have previously agreed to in negotiations and which we also want in the implementation. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you have announced a referendum in ten or 15 years following the EU's Government Summit on Turkey's accession to the EU. We are pleased that you, Federal Chancellor, have received a request from us liberals. We at the FPÖ will ensure that this concern will not be forgotten even in the coming years! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, this EU government summit should have decided that Turkey is not a European country – and that negotiations with Turkey have lasted for more than 40 years, is already the real proof of this. These embarrassing decisions, which the European Heads of Government took in 1999 and before, should have been corrected at this summit, because Turkey will not be a European country in ten or 15 years' time! This is a fundamental question. The fact that Turkey is also seeing the problem in this direction proves that during the negotiations last weekend, the Turkish head of government, Erdogan, was shortly ahead of the idea of allowing the negotiations to take place, because he is aware of the problems for Turkey that he has to represent. Ladies and gentlemen! We Liberals represent the position that there should not be any additional enlargements beyond the European Union's now-arranged area. We have a clarification of the area that the European Union is now covering. We have to look after the Balkans and the successor countries of Yugoslavia, and we have to deal with this area, with Croatia, but also with the other former Eastern Bloc countries of Romania and Bulgaria. This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. Apart from the fact that we now have to introduce these ten new member countries, which we have taken up last year, into the European Union. That is why we believe that there should not be any rushing enlargements of the Union beyond this European area. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We also represent this position because we believe that the European Union project must not fail. The extent of the geographical area, which has political, economic consequences, poses this danger. Ladies and gentlemen! We should therefore try to ensure that the European Union, in the area we are now in front of us, is breaking up the European laws, the European principles in depth, and that further enlargements are abandoned.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4705	From time-saving, I have only announced that the request of the honourable Member has been properly tabled and is under discussion. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4761	In the next round, the speaking times of the speakers are 7 minutes each. The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4782	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Today the interior resort is reoccupied, with Lies Prokop re-occupied. We now have an Olympic in the five battles on the government bank. Mrs Minister, you will need your skills if you take over this place, of which I am sure! [[Abg. Großruck: She has already proved this in Lower Austria!]] If you have said, Mrs. Minister, that Federal Minister Strasser has handed you an excellently ordered house, I tell you – that is my impression, and I also talk a lot to people from the executive, with officials –: You'll still be there, you've taken over a construction site, a construction site that consists of at least five construction sites! I would like to show you the main construction sites, Mrs. Minister. Fighting scene 1: increasing crime. It is an open secret that crime in Austria has been rising and rising for four years, and for four years, an ÖVP Minister of the Interior has been responsible for security policy. And as crime increases, the rate of Enlightenment is falling, and that is a big problem. The education rate is now no longer more than 50 percent like at the time of SPÖ's internal ministers, but has already fallen below 37.5%. That's an alarm sign, Mr. Großruck. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Construction site 2, Mrs Minister: international crime. The international crime – in the last hour of the liberals a little enticing and captivating with criminal tourism – is a major problem, in Austria and in Europe as a whole. It will therefore be necessary to take appropriate measures. I would like to point out the increase in the number of towed people who have been dragged to Austria; this can be read in the 2003 tractor report. Mrs Minister, when we talk about towed people, I would like to say that it is women and children who are towed. Trafficking in human beings is often trafficking in women. Here I also address you as a woman: Here you are called upon to set up intervention agencies for victims of violence in the family on the basis of the pattern set up by the Social Democratic Ministers of the Interior, to set up posts for those who were dragged from another country to Austria. On the one hand, this would help the victims, but on the other hand also the police, because it would make the victims more known. This, I think, would be very important if we were to seriously address this phenomenon of tow crime: That one helps those who really come to Austria under the most difficult conditions. As construction site 3, I would describe the outstanding implementation of the “team 04”. You know, there is a great uncertainty in the executive, 5 300 posts are to be re-submitted, and this is massively uncertain to officials, above all according to the experiences they have made in the last four years under Minister of Interior Strasser. Here it must be ensured, Mrs Minister, that not the party book governs the post-ordering, but the qualification. This would motivate the security device again if the officials felt that it is being judged by performance and the performance provided in the sense of Austrian security is also credited accordingly. Mrs Prokop! A very important and essential point that your predecessor has left behind is the area of asylum policy. It has been discussed more often today, and in this respect you really need to act, namely to present a constitutional law in accordance with international law, which really corresponds to the Geneva Convention, the Austrian Constitution and also to the humanitarian values in our state. Whatever you have to do, Mrs Minister, that is to say that the climate in this country is relaxed, that it is not “criminal” being equated with “Asylwerber”. This climate change, which has taken place under your predecessor in our country, is a huge problem. Here is really a compensation more than necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Construction site 5, in order to point out this briefly, is the new civil service law novel. You should really put it on your lips and say: The civil servant must be made equal to the soldier! Then, I think, there would also be clarity in this area. Mrs Federal Minister Prokop, I say to you: You will have your hands full in the future if you want to clean up these construction sites. You have done one thing: you want to go into history as an interior minister, under which the security situation in Austria has improved. - Get it on! We support you if it is not at the expense of those who are the poorest in the country, be it the asylum seekers, whether it be the victims of tow crime or those who serve on the ground and perhaps do not have the right party book.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4836	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies. 7 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4854	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, and especially Mrs Prokop, Minister of the Interior! I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity of my statements here today to welcome you, dear Lies Prokop, very warmly here with us in federal politics, in this so important place and, of course, to assure you of our undivided and full support. Please be welcome here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And since some speakers have already mentioned your sporting past, I would like to add that as a sports officer and sports politician, I am particularly pleased that you have kept this connection to sports and still in a very high position today, namely, as President of the Sports Union, which sports has not only been preserved, but also is doing a lot for sport. So I am pleased that, in addition to your important role as Minister of the Interior, we have also won a fellow player here for the concerns of sports. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now on the issue of past EU summits and accession negotiations with Turkey. Klubobmann Van der Bellen has said quite rightly that a vote on Turkey's accession today would be based on a clear negative decision because Turkey does not meet the conditions for it today. We certainly agree on this. Neither in the economic field would Turkey currently be a profit, nor would it be cost, nor would the large number of Turkishs willing to migrate. But even the social and social conditions are at present simple and simply not given in this country. But: It must also be recognised that Turkey is making great efforts in many areas of policy: in social policy, with improvements in many areas, in justice, in the area of recognition, for example, of Women's rights and similar, in the budgetary field, where massive efforts are being made to limit debt, inflation and economic and employment policy. This is not to be recognized, and it would have been a mistake to slow down Turkey in these efforts or to face up to it. Turkey wants to go to the EU, and I believe that the accession negotiations are therefore also an opportunity to make Turkey a part of Europe when it has become a European one in recent years. I therefore believe that the decisions taken so far, especially those taken or contributed by the Federal Chancellor at the summit, were correct: To open negotiations, however, to provide conditions, to open up negotiations and, at the end, to involve the people, when on the table, in the decision. What I cannot accept and understand at all in this context is the position of the Social Democrats, namely to let the people decide on something that is not yet on the table and cannot be decided at all. This is really a “wash me the fur, but don’t make me wet!” policy, a policy that can no longer be surpassed in cowardice! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think that we have a difficult path with Turkey, not a question, difficult negotiations, an uncertain outcome of these negotiations, but it has been correct, in my view, in view of what I have said before, to start these negotiations. However, your output must remain open until the end, until you can say: Is that feasible? Whether Turkey is capable and ready for accession in ten years or many years, and the EU is also able to accept these candidate countries in fact, this is not safe to answer today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4930	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e4949	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few words to you, Mrs. Interior Minister. It has been said today by the government bank and also by ÖVP MPs that it is great that there is now another woman in the Federal Government, as an interior minister. I very much hope, Madam Minister of the Interior, that you will raise the courage and also the toughness that you are promised, also for this political and strategic trade, which my colleague, Terezija Stoisits, has already addressed, in relation to the way your predecessor has done, namely in dealing with the rule of law, in dealing with VfGH judgments. And something else: If the fact that you are a woman is addressed, I very much hope that you will implement it in terms of content, for example, when it comes to the area of violence in the area of violence in the family or measures against trafficking in women, because there is still a great need, both in terms of content and in terms of funding, to support initiatives that are very active here. I hope that you will also perceive this and perceive it more strongly than your predecessor has done. But now to the European Council, to the decisions of Brussels. First of all, I would like to say that, from the green side, we also have the decision, with Croatia from 17. We welcome the start of negotiations on March 2005. Klubobmann Molterer said it was a key question. For the Greens, the integration of the whole of the South-East European region into the European Union is a key issue. Croatia is an important step in this area. What I missed from the Chancellor in his public statements and probably also from the Council itself – since I was not here – is that he called for exactly this need for the pre-accession strategy and priority treatment of the Western Balkans and said that this was important for Austria, for the Austrian Federal Government. – This is very important for us Greens. Now to Turkey. . We welcome the fact that this decision has been taken by the Council, a decision which means: To open negotiations with the aim of full entry and not of any negotiations with any objective. We have already said this quite clearly to the public. But it is the same as in all the negotiations, i.e. also with Turkey: The outcome of these negotiations is not yet clear. That means: In so far as we also consider that the outcome is open. The Copenhagen criteria must be met – everyone, not just some! – that’s clear, too. I listened very closely to the Chancellor today when he spoke about the safeguard clauses and the derogations. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have always stressed before the Council that you will insist that there will be permanent safeguard clauses, including for the free movement of persons, so that it is now to be specified that there should be such restrictions on the freedom of movement of persons, so to speak, until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day after accession. We have already said, Federal Chancellor, that, in our view, contradicts fundamental freedoms in EU law. It cannot now be determined that there will be permanent safeguard clauses especially for the free movement of persons. This is what we consider to be a contradiction to EU law. I was then – I know it was quite hard negotiations – pleased that the wording now looks so that permanent safeguard clauses are possible that one does not say that they should apply permanently, but that they can be activated again and again. And that's a big difference to what you originally wanted, Federal Chancellor. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] That's a big difference, even if you're saying it's not. I can quote it from the APA: The final version of the text makes it clear that permanent safeguard clauses are only permanently available but should not apply permanently. – And that’s a difference! But now on the point that is in the foreground today, on the issue of the referendum and also on the pact that you and Vice-Cancecian Gorbach demand from the opposition parties. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Be honest: This is a purely satisfaction pact for ÖVP and FPÖ, so that it is clarified for the area in which a clear difference in the positions has so far been present: The two remain in the government together, no one is getting upset because there is this satisfaction, this common pact. They here promise that sometime in the year snow – whenever these negotiations are concluded – an Austrian referendum will be held. It's all right. Mr Bundeskanzler – even my clubman has already said that – this is a ridiculous proposal! You can't guarantee that. No one can guarantee that now. This is the same as other promises made by you. I would like to remind you of your own government programme. It's not even been that long, a little more than a year and a half. It says that Turkey is recognised as a candidate on the basis of the Copenhagen decisions – which refer to the Helsinki decisions again; I do not want to do so too long now – and that is because it is based on the same criteria that apply to the other candidate countries. You, Mr Bundeskanzler, said exactly the opposite today: That you are glad that this is a very own process, a process sui generis, just as it has not yet been. – Mr Bundeskanzler, you have broken your own government program! To that end, you do not say a word, and for us this is the reason why we agree to such a referendum – in addition to other criteria – any credibility. This is the half-life of your promises, just like with other things. If you already want to make referendums on issues for which there is no majority in the Austrian population or where a majority is opposed, why don't you talk about the Eurofighters? That would be a good point: a referendum on the Eurofighters! I can guarantee you that there is a majority rejection! But you don't want to. You just want to say this where you want to say placebos now and say: Dear people, calm down, things will be half as bad, you can decide anyway! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] You know exactly, you can't guarantee that. A dialogue with the population in Turkey on these issues is necessary – and not placebos for fears that exist now.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5055	The next item is the speech by Mr Fauland. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5073	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! So: To compare the Eurofighters with Turkey, I think this is a strong piece, because one is about the security needs of the people we represent as responsible and elected politicians, and the question of Turkey is something to be considered from a different point of view. The accession of Turkey, in order to address this issue immediately, is, in our opinion, to be rejected from a number of points of view. In addition to the economic and, above all, human rights aspects, Turkey's political development, which it is experiencing, is remarkable and also observable. On the one hand, there is a first-ever force of national-fundamental forces in Turkey, which are already the strongest in the vote, and no one can predict, neither in the European Union nor elsewhere, where Turkey is developing over the next 15 years. There can be another first arm of fundamental forces, and then the consequences and effects for Europe are not predictable. It is unfortunate once again that, although the SPÖ represents the same content in principle, when it comes to a request from the government parties, it falls back into the nosage, a virtue that is already slowly becoming a habit and with which we have now also learned to deal. A few words to re-occupy the interior. – With this post-occupying, a created vacuum in the Ministry of the Interior was closed by the unpredictable departure of Federal Minister Strasser. With the new Federal Minister, the ÖVP is looking back on a person who, due to her many years of experience, is certainly extremely suitable to meet the challenges of this department, and she will also need this experience bitterly. At the head of the tasks to be performed is the implementation of the Security Police Act with the decided merger of customs guard, general army and police. Here it will be – and for the change I also share the SPÖ’s concerns – particularly for transparency in the occupation of the 5 300 new jobs to be occupied. On the other hand, there is an extremely high number of crimes in Austria, coupled with a dubiously low level of information. And this too is a challenge for the new minister. It is not a question of reducing statistics, because the population can do very little with statistics, but it is a question of maintaining and strengthening the security needs of the Austrians, and also the confidence that the Austrians have in the security systems. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the process of optimising – let me put it this way – I am absolutely convinced that the concerns of most of the Austrians will be involved here, that the new Minister of the Interior will also comply with the punctuation adopted in the Council of Ministers, and from our point of view it will also be a positive implementation of the new asylum law. Other topics will also be addressed to the Minister of the Interior in the near future. For example, the problem of the ADONIS control system has still not been resolved, and there are a number of other problems. Something that irritates me – and it is a need that still needs to be noted – are the signals that you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have recently been sending out against FPÖ. I do not want to overestimate them, but rather see this as a kind of residual effect of your pre-use in the Lower Austrian state government. I believe that we will find good cooperation at federal level within the meaning of all Austrians, and I wish you good luck from this point of view for your new office!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5134	Mrs Plassnik, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, was next mentioned. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5152	Madam President. High house! The issue of enlargement is at the heart of the discussions of the last European Council and, in turn, the subject of negotiation with Turkey was the subject of this issue. In short: The result is that Turkey's accession to the European Union is possible. However, there is no automation. Turkey has not yet fulfilled all the criteria to be met for accession. Therefore, together, a unique and very independent procedure has been developed, allowing us to solve the problems that have not yet been resolved with respect and accuracy, and to address the questions to which no answers have yet been received. I will say something specifically about human rights and the deficits identified there. The start of negotiations was given, for a negotiation process, which will at least be lengthy. This is also reflected in the decisions of the European Council: Before the next financial perspective – in concrete terms: before 2014 – there can be no conclusion of negotiations. This is once the first guarantee. That is to say, it will be time to highlight the legitimate concerns raised by different sides as well as to develop solutions. The meticulous and multi-massed safety net, the close corset developed for negotiation itself, is unique – we have not yet had it in the European Union – and this takes into account the special importance and the specificities of Turkey and the European Union in this regard. We were – this is one, I believe, Austrian merit recognised from all sides – the so-called 4 again. The Copenhagen criterion has been focused. Of course, this Copenhagen criterion has been valid since its decision-making, but the efforts that were necessary in order to re-emphasize politically in the overall context of the beginning of the negotiation process are proof that it has not always been a priority in all considerations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The same applies to the openness of the process. This is also a matter of course, but also for the first time this openness of the procedure, the fact that there is no preliminary decision on the outcome, was explicitly held. It was not a matter of course – the laborious negotiations have highlighted it on this point. In addition to the open process, I would like to point out that the main elements of the procedure are also explicitly: If accession is not achieved in the course of the negotiations, then there is an alternative solution in two cases: on the one hand, by reference to this 4. Copenhagen criterion in the event that the European Union is not open to admission and, secondly, in the event that Turkey should not be able to meet its requirements to meet the criteria – the Copenhagen criteria – accordingly. A very strict monitoring process has been set up, particularly in the area of human rights and political criteria – a ongoing process, the Commission will report regularly – and this procedure also provides for serious disagreements, difficulties in meeting the need to initiate a procedure that can take place until the negotiations are terminated. We have reported it in the main committee: A third of the Member States or the Commission can cause exactly this stop button, trigger this emergency brake and bring about a complete interruption of the negotiations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Negotiations will take place according to the well-known pattern – in other words, chapter for chapters – but with “benchmarks” – this will also be a innovation in the process: For the first time, it will be possible to define capital – at the beginning, but also at the end of the respective chapter – which criteria are to be met specifically in this area and whether the implementation processes are satisfactory; we need unanimity for these processes. On human rights: The awareness that there are significant deficits here is great. The deficits concern torture, freedom of expression, freedom of religion, child labour and children's rights, but also trade union rights and the protection of minorities. I would like to point out briefly what we Austrians are doing in order to engage in torture in particular and to support Turkey in its process: Under Austrian leadership, an EU project on human rights-compliant methods of consultation was launched. ==References== 200 trainers are trained, the project is handled by the Ludwig-Boltzmann Institute for Human Rights and the Ministry of the Interior in cooperation with the Directorate-General of the Turkish Police. This is a Twining project, which has come about through my department, and the team comprises 40 experts from all over the EU –15 of which come from Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What Austria is doing in this area as information on human rights and what Austria – specifically described by an example now – is doing in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5239	Mr Brosz and the Green Group: If I make another six-minute round, we won't be done on time at 14 o'clock; I'm just saying that. I would therefore suggest that the speaking time should be reduced to 5 minutes per speaker. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, this can only be done if the agreement is unanimous. That is why I ask the Green Group whether you agree. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Yes!]] – Very good; thank you! Next, Mr Parnigoni. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5274	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Only one sentence on Turkey's question: We would have felt it fairer and more decent to say that the EU is simply not ready to develop a complicated procedure now, with monitoring processes and so on, in order to be able to press the stop button perhaps after ten years. – I thought this was much worse, because this would of course not have any foreseeable consequences for the EU’s relations with Turkey today. But, ladies and gentlemen, especially Mrs Innenminister, I do not feel that the questions of internal security are now essentially addressed by Lower Austrians, namely the Minister of the Interior at the level of the government, and I am allowed to deal with these issues as chairman of the Committee on the Interior. Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop, you have an interview on 18 November. In December, in the "Kurier", her goal was to go into history as the Minister of the Interior, under which the security situation has significantly improved. – I can only tell you: This is an objective in which we will safely support you in the interests of the security of the population. It's also good if you say that. Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop, you have made it clear in your remarks that you are different from Mr. Strasser, who has always said that Austria is the safest country. They already weakened this and meant: Austria is one of the safest countries. This shows that you may be addressing things with the necessary caution. As has already been said, Mrs Federal Minister Prokop, you are taking over a number of construction sites at a time when the security situation is very clear: The fact is that, even though the Federal Chancellor has repeatedly said that 1,000 security executives are more available on the street; and even if he repeats it several times, this claim is not true – the fact is that we have a dramatic, disastrous development in the field of safety. This is clear from the increase in the crime from 1999 to 2004 by more than 200 000 and the reduction of the investigation rate to almost 37 percent. These are signals that need to be recognized; there is clearly a need for action. Mrs Bundesminister, I have listened very closely to you. You can't believe that the Interior Minister disappeared at night and fog left you some pits here, but you should be prepared. And I can tell you: There are really personnel problems! It is a fact that there are no resumptions in retirement, for example, it is a fact that we have more than 500 appointments – especially of officials, because it is thanks to God that we are getting more and more – and no re-occupied with these open planning sites. This is a matter which you, of course, need to deal with as a matter of priority. Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop, I can assure you: The SPÖ has never opposed measures that have brought greater security to the population. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Why did you vote against it?]] And in the Security Police Act, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that we have, of course, agreed to the new investigation methods. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Rejected in third reading!]] Wait! We have agreed, we have worked on a massive basis and have actually put the question of protection zones or, for example, video surveillance on a legal basis – we have cooperated here – but unfortunately, the ÖVP – and the FPÖ – have prevented us from agreeing in a different voting mode even in third reading. It has already been mentioned that the question of merging is an important question for you. Here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I think it is a complete nonsense to write out these 5 300 plan posts, and I offer you that we try to get to another way of doing this. In the area of asylum, I believe that the question of the rule of law, the Geneva Convention, is the basis, and there must be a policy of humanity here. There too you will find our consent. To date, you have to change the relationship with the staff in the Ministry of the Interior, I think, because if I now hear that about this annual distribution of rewards, which has been given, has only taken place for the staff of the Office of Ministers, I can only say that is the wrong way. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] It's the thousands – I'm already closing! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] – Thanks to executive officials who have worked excellently, and it is gratifying that they are still trying – even if they have been excluded there. I wish you all the best and offer you a hand for constructive cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5345	The next item is the speech by Mr Ellmauer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5363	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! As human rights spokesperson of my group, I thank the exodus Federal Minister for his commitment to asylum policy, for what he has put on the rails has not yet achieved an interior minister in front of him. Before the start of his term of office, there were about 2,300 asylum seekers in federal care; now there are just over 27 000 asylum seekers for whom the state has created accommodation, catering and a fair asylum procedure. Here reforms were urgently needed, and Ernst Strasser implemented them with a modern, attractive asylum law. This is in the interest of the Austrians as well as of those asylum seekers who really need asylum, because a law that opens the door to international tow bands and gates for people looking for economic improvement in our country does not benefit us all. We want to give those inn that really need this protection. Just two days before Christmas, all this should be clear and common concern. As the first Minister of the Interior, Ernst Strasser also succeeded in establishing an Article-15a agreement with the countries for basic supply. That was pure commitment for the people who really need our help. Austria, which has never been one of the classic countries of immigration, has, however, become a country in which many have rightly sought refuge and protection and continue to seek out from good and, above all, from human tradition. In a former classical country like the USA, an asylum application is made to 13 679 inhabitants, in Australia to 8,070 inhabitants, in Germany to 3,358 inhabitants, in England to 3,036 and in Holland to 2,262 inhabitants. These are facts which clearly show a need for action and which should at last be taken into account by the opposition parties, especially by the Greens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We do not benefit from Mr Voggenhuber's renunciation in Brussels either, but we are required to do so. With the new asylum law, we have set the necessary course towards a secure future. The procedures will be accelerated and more efficient for asylum seekers in order to protect those who actually need them in our country. Also constitutionally, Ernst Strasser is not much to blame: 95 percent of the Asylum Act was recognised as positive by the Constitutional Court. The The other points are in progress; they will be corrected as soon as possible, with humanity, respect and rule of law. Austria looks back on a long tradition as an asylum country. Again and again we have generously opened our borders to refugees. This started during the Hungarian uprising and was shown at the last war in Bosnia. No other European country has helped so quickly and efficiently, no country has taken up the 90 000 refugees and two thirds of them fully integrated within a few years. We can be proud of that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to thank the NGOs today, especially the Caritas and the Diacony, because they too deserve our respect for their work, for their commitment, for their willingness to dialogue, in order to find the necessary space between human care and the necessary rule of law with a great deal of responsibility. Their knowledge of the needs of asylum seekers and their daily use on the ground make our asylum system what it is: an inn search for those who no longer have a home because they are persecuted in their home country. I also know for personal reasons and many years of experience as mayor that it is not always easy to allow asylum seekers to be granted the necessary integration, but I have experienced that the dialogue and information, the involvement of the associations and the population are the change and change in successful integration work. With a lot of humanity, sensitivity and the necessary sense of responsibility, our new and first woman in the Ministry of the Interior, our Lese Prokop, will ensure that our country continues to offer security within and protection for refugees. Their sporting ambition, their human size and their sense of responsibility to shape the daily inn search for people in distress with humanity and attention will continue to lead us to a secure future. Mrs. Federal Minister Prokop, I wish you every success! The entire ÖVP club trusts you and will support you for the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5439	The next speaker was Mrs Haidlmayr. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5461	Madam President. Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Prokop, we already know each other from various events, where we were sitting together on the panel and discussing other topics, such as people with disabilities. We were not always of an opinion, but I hope and expect that, when it comes to civil service, we will be at least in the future. As you know, I am the Green Party Civil Service spokesman and have been working for many years for the interests of civil service professionals in Austria. Ms. Minister, civil service has gone down dramatically since 2000: While by the year 2000, civil servants still had a relative outcome with their income, this has been over since Minister Strasser. Civil servants currently receive between €4 and €11 in food money in Austria; in Lower Austria – where you come from – it is on average €6. Mrs. Minister, €6 a day that a civilian servant can use to feed himself to heat his home to buy clothes and, and, and,! Mrs Minister, you know the demands of the Greens: Within the framework of the Civil Service Reform Commission, we demand – and have already demanded this before – that there is at last equality in flat-rate remuneration, as it is regulated by the Military Fees Act, for you know: Basic defense servants have a flat-rate remuneration of €250.20 per month, but civil servants only € 185.10. Mrs Minister, this is a blatant imbalance which has to be resolved immediately! It is also necessary to eliminate the inequality of the board immediately: While ground defenses who cannot be held in the facility receive €13.60 a day, civilians receive an average of only €5. Mrs Minister, civil servants, too, must be rewarded and relocated in accordance with the Military Fees Act! And, Mrs. Minister, the third requirement is: The duration of civil service and military service must be equal in length to give young men the opportunity to also make civilian service. They don't have this chance right now. You don't have them because it's just a financial consideration that every young man has to make I can afford it – can't I afford it? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But it's getting more and more!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But it's getting more and more!]] Can my parents afford it, or do I have to make debts? You have said in your speech that the work of civil servants is impressive, you are surprised at what civil servants do, and you expect civil service to continue in the future. Mrs Minister, as long as there is military service, there will also be civil service. But don't believe that civil servants are there to more or less fill in the vacuum of the non-existent social network. This is just an intermediate solution and should never become a common solution more or less. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What are they supposed to do, civilians? Just sitting in the office?]] Mrs Minister, I urge you to stand behind civil servants and really improve the situation of civil servants and also to contribute to the fact that there is, in fact, equality between military and military service services in the context of the Civil Service Reform Commission – with regard to food, flat-rate compensation and the duration of civil service. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5536	The last speaker was Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. His speaking time is also 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5554	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to highlight the problem of Turkey very briefly, because it is a subject that has now accompanied us in the last few days, which, I suppose, will be a little in the background in the next few years. will be re-ignited and, if it is so far, if any negotiation results are available. It was fascinating for me to hear Mr. Klubobmann Cap doing so here at the speaker's desk – and it was not much different on Sunday when he was sitting on the show "Openly Said" and simply doing so – as if neither his party nor his colleagues in the other European countries had ever had anything to do with this decision. He was said in “open language” in a very isolated, self-representative form, and that actually gave the impression – and that, Mr. Cap, was again today – as if his opinion on the one hand were loosed from the rest of the SPÖ – proponents like Häupl say something else – and on the other hand also loosed from the rest of Europe. After all, it was not only Viktor Klima, who led this accession in 1999, but it was also the Federal Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr Schröder, the leading promoter and the leading negotiator and chief advocate of the opening of accession negotiations. That is why I think you should take the SPÖ into responsibility here and show these “Zick-Cap-Course”, as our clubman has said. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Ellwall.]] It was quite different with the liberals: We have had this scepticism from the beginning. We, too, have in our ranks – in order to get ahead of various intermediate calls in the same way – advocates of this accession. We too have very important political representatives in our ranks, who say this accession and these negotiations are good – that is, I believe, democratically okay – but we have a clear line of parties. With us, neither a representative nor a chief responsible person asks the question: Why is there no such attitude, and how is this attitude justified? With us the scepticism is also justified, ladies and gentlemen. In the case of the request, which was discussed last week in the main committee, there has been a clear statement by the liberals regarding the scepticism that stands on very many pillars. This scepticism is not a populist one, it is not drawn to the hair, but this scepticism rests on many pillars: There are economic problems, there are human rights problems, there are legal problems, there is the question of costs. For example, it was fascinating to see that the former Green Commissioner, who was primarily responsible for EU finances, did not know a reply on two occasions, how high the costs would be. It actually goes into a very deep black hole, and you don't know where the money is supposed to flow at all. One can help by saying that this will only be decided in the next financial framework, but in the final effect these costs are a very important part of the negotiations. It is the cost of agriculture, it is the cost of building up infrastructure, and in the end the EU will not be able to afford it. The former leading EIA politician, Busek, also says that the EU is not ready for this accession. I simply believe that this is the continuation of a mistake that was started 40 years ago. For the first time 40 years ago, Turkey opened the doors to the European Union. Only, ladies and gentlemen, At that time it was not a political union, at that time it was a single economic area that was to be created. At the time, other conditions had been met. In the final effect one has repeatedly promised something for decades, which no one will ever put on the table It was ready. And the truth will meet us very hard in ten or 15 years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When we hear that the Turkish head of government, Erdogan, went to the press after the negotiations, which, for example, were very critical about the Cyprus question, and said literally: The commitments do not mean recognition of Cyprus! that he went out and said: This is a technical adjustment, we will not recognize Cyprus!, then we really have to say – and I think that should all, whether they are advocates or opponents – that it is more than worrying if someone who wants to enter into this common family, as the European Union is so often called, is not willing to recognise a state that has been since 1. May be full member. – So much about Turkey. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I still have a word allowed – I still have a minute – to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5627	You are mistaken, Mr. Cot: You've got 15 seconds left.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5648	Mr President. I hope you will be as transparent as the representatives of the ÖVP, of Klubobmann Molterer and also of the Minister of the Interior, and give me two minutes later. It is, I believe, a voluntary time limit. [[Abg. Eder: No, no, no!]] [[Further calls.]] I come to the conclusion that the President is likely to have to give a Christmas speech, which is why my final sentence: My group also welcomes the upcoming holidays, a good slide into 2005 and a lot of power and energy for next year!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5695	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Molterer and Scheibner, ladies and gentlemen, on the referendum on Turkey's accession to the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – The request is the majority of the House and is therefore adopted. (E 87.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues on an Austrian initiative for the introduction of a Europe-wide referendum on European issues. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign. – The application does not find the majority and is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cap, colleagues on the accession of Turkey to the EU. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. . Nor does this request find the majority and is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5773	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 496/A to 499/A have been submitted. Questions 2441/J to 2452/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 26 March. It will be convened in writing at 9 a.m. Address by the President
ParlaMint-AT_2004-12-22-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00092_d7e5809	Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, from the Presidency, to address to you a few words – soon – last year. You have noticed that at the previous meeting it was over midnight, and honourable Member Cap has said that we should not ‘huddle down’ important things. I took this call to heart – also knowing that perhaps I would have a second, a better chance to talk – and did not hold the Christmas address; so I can do it now. [[Rejoicing]] Ladies and gentlemen! A year of work is coming to an end. In figures, we have passed 148 laws – that is a significant increase compared to the previous year. We have decided 74, that is, half, in consensus. Three constitutional laws were passed unanimously. – That is to say, the “consensal ceiling” in this House is always noticeable not only in the presidential conference and carries this House, but also in the National Council there is a balance between conflict and consensus. We had 128 committee meetings and 38 subcommittee meetings, and I believe that this must also be carried out to the public, as many days and also some nights the ladies and gentlemen of the House have spent here in order to consult the materials in committee work in order to carry out control tasks – especially the nights are always asked – so that what is going on in a parliamentary democracy to a parliament is also really efficient and not just looking at what is happening. The honourable Members have asked more than 1 000 questions: 1 251 questions, all of which have been answered. The government is therefore regularly controlled by us in writing and also orally. There have been 17 urgent questions – a significant increase compared to earlier. And all of this has expired in a proper climate – I would like to say as President. I am very glad that the number of calls for order, despite some rigorous handling, has fallen to 15 – that is by ten less than on average in the past legislative period. So this testifies to the fact that the club people have also exercised their milding effect in the club. We also had the Austrian Convention, which was extended until the month of January, but which held hundreds of committee meetings, to the 20 plenary sessions and 40 presidencies here in the house. There are not all Members here – the matter will come to you, ladies and gentlemen. – but there are many Members. In addition to the "daily bread" of Parliament's work, our staff has also done this Convention work without complaints and exemplary. So: Parliament is working! If you see this balance of work and know that we have also carried out 80 more events – book presentations, discussions, children's groups, groups of visitors, women's groups, discussions in the house – I think it is foolish to measure the Members in the minutes they can speak in plenary. You know that this is very unfair, because, naturally, the opposition has more speaking time than the government and, naturally, the small groups have more speaking time than the big ones, so that the big ones do not speak so often. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true!]] – Mr Kogler nodds; I think he is the absolute Red Champion; but that can only be done in a small group. For many, there are pains and sorrows because they wanted to talk much more often than they allowed. So we are working, and this Parliament is working! As regards the reconstruction of the ramp, we have now actually completed the construction of raw materials. We are half-way in the renovation of the Epstein Palace, and the rooms are distributed among the political groups. We quit the Schenkenstraße, the Green Club gets a new seat on Löwelstraße. The address, I know, is a sorrow; because the peasantry is also sitting there, I think. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Anyway, all of this went over the stage in consensus. I would like to ask the second President, Mrs Mag. Barbara Prammer, thank you very much for taking over this work and will continue to devote herself to building issues in the future. Thank you! [[General condolences.]] I would like to thank all the members of the Presidential Conference because it is a very positive and complication-free cooperation in a real working atmosphere. I would like those who criticize democracy to see how professional work is being done here in this House. I would like to thank the club members, the Second and Third Presidents, for this. I would also like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for doing all this work, sometimes under adverse circumstances. Sometimes we invite very late, I know that, sometimes appointments are overturned, your constituency work will be hindered. I can tell you that at the Presidential Conference we decided that we are negotiating with the Minister of Finance for parliamentary staff – you know what is meant – employees who have been stagnating in their salary development for many years. I will do my best that this concern of the clubs will be enforced without the reduction of the clubs. [[General condolences.]] I would like to conclude by thanking all the staff, especially Mr Georg Posch, and the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate. I would particularly like to stress Mr Parliament Vice-President Sigurd Bauer, who, with his employees, has to carry the entire building load. I would also like to thank Mr Klausgraber, who serves the National Council, very much for everything you do in this House without looking at the clock. Since sometimes our events end after half nine, I understand that some of our employees have no great joy with them. But all of this belongs simply to this house, which is a public house, which is a house of citizens. Thank you to all the employees for their work! [[General condolences.]] I would like to wish you, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a blessed Christmas! I call on all club members not to convene a special meeting for the next 14 days – and not to make a government reform, Mr. Federal Chancellor – so that the Members and you can have a nice Christmas with your families and recover from the government. [[Rejoicing]] All of you a good and successful year 2005! Thank you. [[General condolences.]] [[14:05]] The sitting is closed.
