ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e1700	The meeting was opened. The Official Protocol of the 82. Meeting of 9. In November 2004, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the Members of this House are reported today. Rider, Scharer, Dr. Bleckmann, Dr. Van der Bellen. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e1731	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin Bartenstein is represented by the Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e1758	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e1921	Let's go into the agenda. The report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government Template (650 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act 2005 and Investments (670 of the Supplements). Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e1943	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ is proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ each 158, Free 108 and Green 117 minutes. The term of office of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 20 minutes, or the speaking time of the Secretary of State responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 10 minutes, shall be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. Furthermore, the speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries should at least be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. The House shall decide on this Rules of Procedure. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal of the Presidential Conference to give a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. We'll do this. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (650 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2005 (Federal Finance Act 2005 – BFG 2005) together with investments (670 d.b.) Advisory Group VIII Chapter 60: Agriculture, forestry and water management Chapter 61: Environment
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e2000	We are now entering the negotiations on the Advisory Group VIII of the 2005 Federal Proposal. A request for oral reporting on this advisory group is not provided by the Special Rapporteur. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His welcome time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e2024	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A wonderful morning! As the President-in-Office has already said, this is Chapter 60: Agriculture, Forestry and Water. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the government groups will praise this budget and remove the benefits. That is why it is my duty in the role of this House, Mr. Federal Minister,... – This is a mistake, Mr. Collegue stupid! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: doing everything bad!]] It is not about making things bad, but about addressing the things that have not been implemented with more money in this budget, because it may well be a little better – in that we agree, right? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why, Minister of State, I am beginning with internal solidarity, with the justice of distribution. If you look more closely at the budget, you will be clear, it is a continuation of the previous: 84 percent of the funds go to 48 percent of the enterprises, 16 percent of the funds go to 52 percent of the enterprises. This means that pension and cow's tail premiums are fixed, and this will continue to be maintained in the future. Landesrat Plank says: We have problems in Lower Austria, the forest grows into the window! But the communities should make regulations in the area of spatial planning. – The municipalities should order: The tree must not grow! But with your majority of governments, you, Mr Federal Minister, have prevented the national implementation of the CAP reform from ensuring that small businesses in these areas are supported and the cultural landscape is preserved. – So much to point 1. Mr. Klubobmann Molterer mentioned yesterday from this point of view: Less state, more private, that is the motto of the Austrian People's Party, and that is good! Yes, applause! Good, great! [[Bravorufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] According to this budget and according to the Green Report, Mr Federal Minister, Mr Grillitsch, 80 percent of the average agricultural income comes from the public sector. Less state, more private – but that is only possible with extremely selective perception! In any case, not in the budget, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President, you, when I was a young Member and came to this House a little over a decade ago, said: The budget is the policy cast in figures. – Well, from this point of view, I am now going a little further with the policy that has been cast into figures. Another point concerning justice, Mr Federal Minister – we have debated it very strongly – is the distribution of milk quotas. Hand-picked, selected establishments received a milk quota, while others had to take the path. If this is the policy that has been cast into figures, that the one who is capable of performance and willful must complain so that he can do something again, Mr. Cot is stupid, then this is a testimonie to poverty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, there is a crucial point on the whole matter, Mr Federal Minister: We, which we see people at the centre of our actions and our political work, will and will continue to call for the promotion of labour power instead of the land-based pension and cow-tail premium in the agricultural field. You, Federal Minister, are in the position: I have two good studies from Wieselburg and Gumpenstein, but I do not trust to do so. – That’s a shame, because it’s a farce, Minister of State! As the draft for the next programme will be due in the period 2007 to 2013, and, Mr Federal Minister, we no longer want to experience that Parliament actually has nothing to say, although as a legislator in Austria, I am submitting the following motion for a resolution at the end of the debate: [[Quoted print version removed]] Federal Minister! In order that we may be able to agree to the following templates, I would recommend: Join us, let us work together for the future of Austrian agriculture!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e2119	Mr Gradwelt's motion for a resolution, which has just been tabled by the honourable Member, may well. Gässner, Faul and Collaborators on Parliament’s involvement in ongoing reporting during the programming period for the promotion of rural development for the period 2007 to 2013 are sufficiently supported and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e2183	Mr Gradwelt, at your request you have a proposal to allocate: Agriculture and forestry. However, I do not think this is necessary, because this is a request that we shall vote on immediately after this debate. Therefore, he is not assigned. Do I understand that? Thank you. [[Abg. Gradwell: Yes!]] We shall come to the next speaker, this is Mr Grillitsch. His welcome time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e2212	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Good morning to all those who are already here! I would like to thank my colleagues in the government groups in particular for having been so numerous and showing interest in agriculture and forestry. For when you look into the left half of the empire, you see: The interest in rural families and agriculture is not very great, ladies and gentlemen, really not very great, but we will stand by it. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] We will endure this when prices match and when you finally realize that farmers need safe political conditions – and we in this House ensure them. I assume that you will convince your colleagues who are not present that this is necessary. My dear friends! Ladies and gentlemen. – That’s right, I looked over there anyway. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: The friends are over there!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The peasant families and the farmers in Austria – I believe you will all agree to – have constantly faced great challenges, have experienced an enormous process of change: not only the development away from the agricultural society to the industrial and today information and knowledge society, but also a huge technicalization in agriculture and forestry, in fact away from the horse to the tractor, away from the train saw to the modern wood mower, away from the sense to the mower. Nevertheless, today in Austria we find a cultural landscape that has been sustainablely influenced by farmers' hands, which many of you and many other social groups consider to be worth protecting. And this is a compliment and recognition of the agricultural achievements in Austria. Above all, we also need to bear in mind this new requirement profile for farmers, Mr Pirklhuber: to provide safe food to consumers, Austrians and Austrians, to provide environmentally and natural products, to keep the landscape open, also as an essential basis for tourism. [[Abg. Oil: Agricultural workers!]] [[Abg. You have to do something for that too! That's where the Landesrat Plank doesn't need to say that the forest is coming in at the window!]] – I refer to the interest of the SPÖ in agriculture. Look at your seat rows! – And farmers must provide certain services. Ladies and gentlemen! Since we run this agricultural policy in Austria, farmers have safety and planning with the programmes. [[Abg. May. Gässner: Lock more and more!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have not only participated in this social change and this engineering, but also we have the changes through EU accession, the Agenda 2000 and now again the CAP reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darabos.]] – Mr Darabos, think of the Burgenland, the Objective 1 area; there has been a lot of positive events in rural areas. This is also the way that farmers have co-designed, coined, co-responsible, despite the great concern they have had. But since 1995, we have had appropriate programmes that provide us with safety and planning. I am particularly grateful to the Minister that we now have a budget to ensure that we can recover all the co-financing from Brussels, which ensures the environmental programme, which ensures the compensation allowance for the miners, which ensures the appropriate investment support, is also an essential basis for the market orientation of our businesses in this area since 1. In May 2004, Europe expanded. That consumers appreciate this, we know, because this also confirms recent surveys, in which farmers are given high recognition, more than you show us today with your presence, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. People know that we meet their requirement profile, produce safe food and make them see who produces where. Therefore, the request to you here in this House: not only to hold discussions on how to put on the screw as far as the standard is concerned, but also to think about how the farmers come to an appropriate income, how to ensure – and this is also my appeal to trade – that food is not constantly used as a curly item, but it is about raising the question in society: What are your foods, the means of life that we need every day? That is a very important question. I therefore ask you, across all party political borders, to ensure that farmers are given the opportunity to earn appropriate income, to redeem appropriate product prices, and to provide farmers with secure political programmes for the future, framework conditions so that they can do what Austrians want. In this sense, I believe, there is a consensus across parties, and I therefore ask you to agree to this budget, even if it is difficult for you. Unfortunately, it was not possible to make a joint request for future rural development and to discuss it in the Committee on Agriculture. We are responsible for farmers in Austria and want to provide them with safe and stable conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e2316	The next speaker is Mr Pirklhuber. His welcome time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e2334	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A short word about social change. Mr Grillitsch has gone a long way here. I would just like to say that the Wan del from the agricultural to the industrial and service society has long been completed in Austria and that today's challenges to agriculture and to the discourse we have to lead are very versatile and complex, and that is why we should not work with the old pictures, but with the new challenges that modern, important questions should be put to the fore. Mr Grillitsch, you have actually referred to the implementation of the EU agricultural reform in Austria with hardly one word explicitly, and to the achievement of these objectives, namely safeguarding rural areas, safeguarding rural jobs, innovation in these areas and maintaining our good, interesting cultural landscape. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Instead, they have talked about "security" and "planability" and have repeatedly conjured this, but, ladies and gentlemen, just as this budget leaves everything to be desired in the agricultural sector as far as security and cleanliness of implementation are concerned, I say specifically to you, Mr Grillitsch, because the implementation of the EU agricultural reform in the budget accompanying laws, I have already noted this in the debate on this matter, and I have not given the assurance by a novel of the market regulation law which is necessary from our point of view. [[Abg. Grill: Where in concrete terms?]] We need to know that this agricultural reform is causing far-reaching changes in the Austrian agricultural policy, by decoupling the premiums, the modulation et cetera. All of this has not yet been foreseen – in the Market Regulation Act, Federal Minister, no word of it. If you do not implement this and commit it in an Austrian law, then your implementation stands – I have read it! – on tone feet. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Read it!]] We will continue to devote ourselves to this question and will be examined, Mr Federal Minister – as you can be sure – as to whether the Constitutional Conformity is what you are doing here in Austria for 2005. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At least this is an amount of more than €600 million, which will be re-distributed in Austria without a law based on a regulation, Mr. Federal Minister, starting in 2005. This is completely inadequate from our point of view. Apart from that – we have criticized for months – you have not presented any alternative solutions. They know that the EU agricultural reform would have offered two means of implementation: regionally uniform land premiums for arable and green land in the context of decoupling or a historic farm premium model. They have opted for this second model, the operating premium model, with the argument that there should not be any redistributions. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That was good!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Only this farm premium model leads exactly to the opposite of what you are seeking in lip confessions, namely innovation and progress in agriculture, it leads to massive distortions of competition, Federal Minister. If Mr Grillitsch says that this is stupid, I have to regret him – unfortunately! – Read a statement from the Landesrat Ritt tax from Burgenland. Mr Ritt tax is my knowledge of the ÖVP Agriculture Council in Burgenland, and he says quite specifically: “Whoever is innovative is losing.” – Statement by an ÖVP Agriculture Council, Federal Minister! Did you give an opinion on this at the time? Did you explain to him why? This is a statement made public: ‘Every holding with a high share of cereals is preferred to a organic farmer today’, the ÖVP politician outraged itself’. [[Call the SPÖ:Hear! Listen!]] This is how it looks when it comes to implementing agricultural reform, which you are trying to do in the form of lip confessions and anthems here as the best of the best. – The opposite is the case! This leads to massive distortions of competition. I'm going to demonstrate it to you by means of a Styrian small company. A small and concrete farm – we have discussed this through – in the Styria, which is innovative, which cultivates oil pumpkins, potatoes and vegetables, has received a notice from your agricultural market Austria that it will receive a farm premium of €500 in the future by 2013. [[Abg. Great!]] For a farm of the same size, which intensively grows corn and thus can cause massive environmental risks... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Go, stop!]] Mr Scheuch! In any case, usually a 75 percent corn content of ecologically unbearable, we know, so that's no secret. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This company will receive almost €3 000 annually by 2013. So a difference of 2 500 €, and that at low incomes! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You know exactly why this is so!]] We know this from the Green Report. This is a massive distortion of competition, Mr. Federal Minister! How can you represent such a thing that small businesses will be forced into this distortion of competition with your actions? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] A second example, I do not save you from an area that in itself produces very market-oriented products, namely pig production, the area of pig manure in Austria. As an Upper Austrian pig girl, I would ask myself in the future how it is that one – for example – cattle girls who completes his cattle mast, receives a decoupled farm premium of €70.000 and then can switch to pig mast, that is, he has a competitive advantage because he produces pigs and also receives a high decoupled farm premium, while the farm that has already produced pigs does not receive a premium. This is still a completely non-market approach. This is the opposite of market orientation. This is a clear distortion of competition, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore inappropriate to further develop Austrian agriculture. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Finally, I come to the heart of this, in my opinion, constitutionally questionable procedure. Its implementation model, Mr. Federal Minister, leads to the division of property owners and to the devaluation of land and land. This has, by the way, been said once again by Mr Schwarzböck of the presidential conference in a press release in 2003. So that's nothing new. Very concrete: If a landowner who has leased his land wants to change a tenant, he has the problem that this farmer does not have to return the farm premiums. He can keep her. You know this, Mr Grillitsch, you can laugh about it. This will in practice lead to massive problems. But I would like to conclude: The question of agricultural reform also poses massive risks in the area of non-coupling milk premiums, namely heating quota prices over the next two years. Mr Federal Minister, these are some of the questions that are completely unexplained here. 80 percent of dairy farmers had to look through their fingers at the distribution of the national reserve, where A-Quote had to look through the fingers et cetera, et cetera. But let us go to another area of this budget, which has also led to discussions in the agricultural sector, namely, the financial deal with the Federal Forests. You, Minister of Finance, have clearly supported the Minister of Finance in his financial budget cosmetics. You have supported him by agreeing that the pensions will be refitted to the federal government and that a net budget profit of €90 million will appear for 2005 – a purely budget trick, colleague Scheuch. €90 million, which are recorded as revenue but which are long-term bound. You know, Minister of State, you know it very well. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: And who pays the pensions?]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of food safety: Here you have further developed your concept in the direction that you want to cut further. The Agency for Health and Food Safety is getting €3 million less – all clear. You said in the Committee on Budgets: Yes, we will give subsidies anyway, and we will already raise the money if it is necessary. [[Abg. Scheibner: Note the speaking time!]] But this is not a sustainable policy. Decide! Do you want to put food safety on healthy feet in Austria? Do you want to make sure that the funds are really available so that the quality of food is checked, that safety is guaranteed for consumers, or do you want to starve at this facility? Do you want to force them to sell themselves cheaply on the market, so to speak? They have also made no specific provision for the conservation of non-genotechnic seeds and non-genotechnic food production. At least you have not been able to make any concrete statements about this in the Budget Committee. Finally, Mr Grillitsch, you have raised the question of food dumping here. That's a good question I've always asked you. All I have to say is: How do you support those initiatives against food dumping in this budget? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] How do you support these initiatives? On the contrary, Mr Grillitsch: For example, they have not supported the milk community, which has been very successful in making it clear to supermarkets that dumpinglock offers in the supermarket are not in the sense of consumers and producers and in the sense of sustainable agriculture and food production. She did it. You, Mr Grillitsch, say with regard to this procedure: I'm not going to trade union level. – This is your form of interest policy! Those farmers who are successful in implementing your political ideas are being defamated, and those interest groups that are really successful are not sufficiently supported. In conclusion: Ladies and gentlemen! This agricultural budget in 2005 will speed up structural change in Austria and, instead of providing new impetus to safeguard agricultural jobs, will not provide for any such strategies. That is why we cannot vote in favour of this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e2520	The next speaker is Deputy Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e2538	Mr President. Minister! My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! Wolfgang, I'm actually disappointed, I have to say this quite honestly. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: I'll get you some handkerchiefs!]] You know why? – Because until now, there have always been only this class struggle farmers against non-farmers. That's something we've known for decades. It's not new. This is something that is controlled more or less by different interest groups. That's what we need, I think, to say nothing more. It's really bad and really worrying that there's been a class struggle Bauer against Bauer since the latest. I am convinced, Mr Pirklhuber, that this will not take advantage of us in the debate. [[Abg. May. Worm: It's been a long time!]] - No, that's new, for insiders it's new. That's really bad, and I just think we're not going to solve the problem here. I am convinced that this will only strengthen the problem. If we start to stir up farmers against farmers, this will lead us into a dead end in the long term, perhaps not the overall policy or those who just polemize about it, but certainly all those who are seriously interested in the fact that the agricultural policy leads to a positive future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But I would like to repeat one thing – I missed it a little bit, also from my colleague Grillitsch at the beginning –: I would like to use this budget debate, at least on the part of our group, on the part of the liberals, on the freedom of the peasantry, to give a certain amount of thanks to all the proponents and representatives – it is not the Farmers' Federation that I mean, but it is those who represent agriculture far away from party policy. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It's about politics, not about thanks! Where's the responsibility?]] If we are always talking about the fact that it should be far away from party politics, it is not the Farmers' Federation, but it is in addition to the employees in the ministry, who hopefully, colleague Grillitsch, not party-politically motivated their work, but in the interests of agriculture, above all also the employees in the chambers who stand outside daily and try to bring all that is spent by the ministry to the farmers, that is, where it belongs, namely to the farms. I hope that these too will not be primarily party-political. I would like to thank you, because I am currently doing so, also extending to the opposition, namely as regards the discussion in the Committee on Agriculture, which is usually really a very good one. In the two years in which I am now an agricultural speaker in Parliament, I can say that if we make it – and we are able to thank God very often in the committees – we often have good discussions on agriculture with the Party policy. Finally, I would also like to thank the almost 200 000 farmers who in the final analysis ensure that we have a functioning system within agriculture. In reality, we can only specify the framework conditions here. In the final effect, what is done outside is the actual work. I would have expected the representatives of red and green, but also of the ÖVP to express this thanks here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let us be responsible, let us come to the performance, let us see which framework conditions policy provides! It has already been discussed in a number of approaches on the budget figures. I would like to make the whole point once again that, if you look at the Green Report, you will see that there are, of course, worrying developments and that all agricultural representatives should be concerned. If we have a real income loss of 4 percent in 2003, this is worrying. It is about at least trying to change the framework conditions so that farmers can continue to make an appropriate contribution to society. Because this contribution is not only to manage fields and collect money once a year. I think these are contributions that go far beyond that. These are contributions to society, which are contributions to the environment, which are contributions to the various economic sectors. When I see colleagues Bucher, I know exactly that there is no tourism without agriculture. If you look at small and medium-sized enterprises from the supply industries, you know that there are thousands of jobs there without agriculture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] – Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig, even if you are making fun of the farmers, I must stress that they are and remain an important topic. They themselves come from a farm, at least from the roots, as much as I know. That is why I would expect a little more seriousness in this debate also in the calls for call, because simply being against it and simply simply saying that wrong policies are being made here is the wrong approach. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: a word on the budget, Mr Scheuch!]] I think it is a matter of finding real ways to secure these jobs in this budget. We very often have urgent questions, we have debates on the part of the opposition, where we are concerned about how we can secure jobs. 240,000 unemployed in Austria! Ladies and gentlemen! We have over 200 000 jobs in agriculture, and I am convinced that these are important jobs. These are jobs – and this should be borne in mind – which are not in the centres that are not in the areas where one might easily get a job anyway, there are those jobs that are outside, in the valleys, in the regions, decentral, where it is not so easy to establish a farm, where it is not particularly easy for people to live with their families, where it is particularly important to maintain these structures, but not only in the form of agriculture, but also in the form of schools, the close-up carers, the infrastructure. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we should, and I believe the approach is important, really have the discussions about how to get over it, instead of just discussing it, Mr Pirklhuber, where some euro goes to the farmers and whether the pumpkin farmer gets more or less than the grain farmer and whether the grain farmer is preferable or disadvantaged to the organic farmer. It is about something quite different, it is about keeping jobs in the regions where we need them, because I really think this is dramatic. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am convinced that we will have a problem if we do not commit ourselves to promoting these people if we do not confess that this promotion, which is so often criticized in the population, also serves to bring really different things forward. There's not only money being distributed so I can get up and down with my tractor. As it is invested in education, it is invested in the environment, as it is invested in organic farming, as it is invested in quality assurance and research, as it is invested in renewable energy. It is about so many areas that create thousands of jobs in the final effect. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: 900 000 for the organization – this is a drop on the hot stone!]] If we managed alone to bring together Mr Pirklhuber, the unutilised resources in the forestry of our industry, if we could manage to increase these almost 10 million harvest Festival meters, which are not used every year, which we use more than we use – ladies and gentlemen, in order to have a comparison: this is 21 hectares a day, 21 hekt-ar forest grows more in Austria, the land grows with forest – if we could only use these resources to reduce the imports of wood from third countries that are exactly the same level – precisely these 10 million fixed meters come in, the stadium in Klagenfurt is a good approach, as many others – if we could only give wood this priority as energy sources, as builders in different areas, we could create 10,000 jobs in rural areas, 10,000 additional jobs in small villages, in small regions and could thus also secure 10,000 rural farms. [[Abg. Grill: Stadium!]] I just think that the prospects we need to think about are. And a foundation for this is the budget, and a foundation stone and an approach is that I make it possible for the farmer to work in his farm. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's why it's important that there are these funds. And it can't be important to discuss whether the pumpkin farmer... – This is a worrying sign, and that's why we have to do something about it. [[Abg. May. Gässner: Why lock 4,000 each year?]] There we are together. I am well-known for this and I really know that I am not exactly one who defends the ÖVP agricultural policy to the last. On the contrary! [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] It can't be my job either. My dear colleagues from the SPÖ! If leading representatives of SPÖ – and I think Hannes Androsch is not suspected of being a more liberal – in today’s “press” demand literally: [[Abg. Scheibner: Who knows!]] "First of all, we should raise to a general level what Commissioner Franz Fischler has achieved in sugar: The agricultural subsidies cut by 50 percent within four years.” [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Sugar!]] If you're talking about distributing, I mean, we can talk about it, that's not a question. I too believe that there is an East-West gap in funding, I am also convinced that it will not be easier for small and medium-structured agriculture in the Alps in the next few years. However, if you think about reducing agricultural subsidies by 50 percent, that would mean that the few large farms that may now benefit will get 50 percent less. With this strategy and this approach, however, another 50 percent of farms are destroyed, and 50 000 jobs in the small and medium-sized sector are destroyed. That cannot be the approach! There must be this commitment here that agricultural support is not only a promotion of farmers but also a promotion of the environment, a promotion of tourism and a promotion of jobs. And we need these jobs, because every unemployed farmer will be a unemployed person who goes to the AMS and needs money there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Heinz, there's the Huber plan, I think, from the eighties. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Alois Huber is well known as a liberal, who had this idea, since you were not yet in Parliament. So I believe that we liberals have been calling for a long time ago to reconsider the agricultural policy. [[Abg. Gradwelt: I have already discussed with Alois Huber here!]] That's not a question. But you should think very carefully about what you can achieve and implement under the current conditions. I am convinced, in spite of all legitimate material criticism, that the polemics, this division of farmers is the wrong approach, that it cannot be discussed about things that should not be disputed. [[Abg. Oils: What does the ÖVP say about this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The agricultural debate could probably be held all day long, at least, so there are others who do not see it that way. I am particularly concerned about discussing these issues. But I do not want to overstep my time, because I believe there are also many important other areas to discuss. Finally, I would like to write: In addition to the clear commitment of the liberals to the agricultural policy, in addition to the commitment to this budget, but with reservations and any amendments, I would like to say one thing: As an agricultural representative and also as an agricultural speaker of the liberals, I would like us to take this very principle debate in detail on another occasion. I will really try to ensure that we succeed – and first of all I will have to convince my clubman and then probably still the rest of the coalition, because in this case I will not have such a problem – to take a detailed agricultural debate to the Green Report, to get this Green Report back into the plenary and thus to increase the importance of farmers. [[Demonstratetive applause with SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e2775	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll reported. – Mr Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e2793	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This is an important debate today for the future of farmers in this country and for the future of rural areas. No other population is faced with such upheavals as agriculture, especially in these days. [[Abg. Oils: Many! Almost every group!]] [[Abg. Dr. One: The workers too!]] [[Abg. Riepl: And the hundreds of thousands of unemployed? Are they not affected?]] No other population group is currently affected by a system change like agriculture, because we are currently implementing the biggest reform of the European Union. It's a complete system change. We decouple premiums, which were previously set on a number of hectares or on a unit basis, to a single farm premium. This system demands us very much, and I would like to thank all those who, on the spot, in the Chambers of Agriculture, do excellent work in consulting in order to advance this system change for the benefit of farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Secondly, We also have a very special challenge at international level. The WTO is about implementing our ideas of farming – a difficult task because we still have to do persuasion work in Europe and Europe needs to do persuasion at international level. And in the WTO these months by the end of 2005 we are concerned with a lot: the reorganisation of markets, the production of competitiveness and the consideration of the ideals we have implemented, namely support for rural development, animal welfare measures, social standards, environmental standards. All this is something we have implemented in Austria. Third point, my honours. Ladies and gentlemen: Farmers in this country and in Europe are faced with the re-examination of rural development – an important pillar for rural areas and also for rural farms. And in these times of change and change, it is extremely important to give planning and security. That is why we have also tried with this federal budget for the year 2005 to show clearly where the way is going. It has succeeded in increasing the sum available in the agricultural sector, namely €2,007 billion in 2004 in a year, namely by 2005, to €2,051 billion; this is a plus of more than €40 million! And with this, we can continue what this government has made clear from the outset, namely the safeguarding of the 3-billion package, the continuation of this consistent Austrian path in the agricultural policy. We can thus fully finance an important programme, which is unique in Europe – the programme for environmentally sound agriculture – by 2006. On this programme too, you see that it is not just about support, and, unlike some, I am not talking about support, but about compensation for environmentally sound agriculture, i.e. for a service provided by farmers for society. We have written an absolute success story in the bio sector. Austria is the organic country number one in Europe. We are 10 percent, and we were the first to start this trend. And we were able to balance again this year with a significant increase: plus 30 percent of organic arable land in Austria, and that is not about, but that is why precautionary policies are carried out with clear objectives, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With regard to the question of justice and social compensation: In order to stay in the agricultural area, many apples are confused with many pears. We reported in the Green Report that we had a difficult year for Austria's agriculture in 2003 at minus 4 percent. But, Mr Gradwelt, do you know what is socially just? – The fact that in this difficult year in the agricultural sector, where the most extreme conditions are to be achieved, namely the mining industry, and especially the mining industry in the most disadvantaged zone 4, a plus can be reported here, is a 6 percent increase in income. This is just, balanced, forward-looking agricultural policy in this country, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: What does it matter monetaryly?]] As far as milk quotas are concerned, we have given clear answers. And to your remark regarding the indictment flood: There have been three remaining of the thousands who have been put forward, and it is legitimate and right that those who are not satisfied with it should also seek a corresponding answer. On the question of the design of the Federal Forest, Mr Pirklhuber: You have made a lot of comments, but I think you have not even mentioned the word 'budget' on the verge. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Please go! There were very specific references to the budget!]] Today, however, we are discussing one of the most important questions for the future design of this area. I would now like to go to the Federal Forest. Do you know what we did to the Federal Forests, because you didn't end up telling them? We have transferred 100 million € of reserve, which the company Federal Forest had to make to pay the pension benefits annually, to the Ministry of Finance – and thus, because you have forgotten the second part, also the pension obligations. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: They don't have it yet! They must have received loans!]] This is a policy that makes sense, namely, to the company Federal Forest makes sense. This company maintains the forests of Austria on a sustainable basis, and with this extension of the pension provision and the takeover of the obligation by the public authorities, we have taken into account the objective of the Federal Forests, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the question of the Agency's Food safety concerns: The Food Safety Agency fulfils an important task for a future where we want to have a continuous control chain from the field and from the stable to the consumer. And it is absolutely not true that we are making serious cuts in the area of AGES, the Food Safety Agency, but we have made additional €7.3 million available in a supplementary budget during the budgetary negotiations for these important future achievements. So the opposite of the claim made here is the case. Overall, it is a budget that guarantees the farmers in Austria planning and fulfilling the promises until 2006. I also think that this is a central, important policy position for rural areas. I am glad that we were able to secure these key data, because that also gives security to Austrian farmers. I will then comment on the environmental issues a little later after today's debate has been a purely agricultural debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e2944	Thank you many times, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mr Krainer. He has a speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e2965	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What I always notice with you, Mr. Minister, is that there is a great discrepancy between what you say and what you do between the shadow you raise and the being, the reality of your policy. This is what I want to do on the basis of the three main environmental areas, which also outline three main environmental issues. The first is Kyoto, climate protection, air pollution. You always suggest that Austria would be a pioneer internationally – whatever we were. Only: In reality, we are as far away from the Kyoto target as you can only be away. We should initially release less CO2 compared to 1990, in reality it has been more so far, and from the original reduction target of 13 percent have now become at least 25 percent. We will still have to reach them. You, Mr. Federal Minister, always tell us about your great climate action programme. The only thing I notice from this climate-active programme are four-colored, quarter-paged advertisements in daily newspapers, where you can pay any prices and the like, but what really is saved, nothing of them can be seen. The only thing we do seriously in connection with the Kyoto target is that we take a lot of money into our hands to achieve CO2 certificates abroad or through other programmes. In the country, where we can secure jobs with our money, little to nothing happens. The second area is the area of genetic engineering. Here, too, you have to say: The PR machine works wonderfully, there is a charter for genetic engineering freedom. Only: If you read through what eight points are contained in this Charter, it becomes clear that you can't do anything for freedom of genetic engineering in Austria at all. All these eight points are addressed to other institutions in Austria: The Chamber of Commerce is supposed to do something in the area of trade, because the Chamber of Labour is supposed to do something in the field of consumers, because the European Parliament is supposed to do something, because the countries are supposed to do something – but the minister seems to have nothing to do. There is, after all, a genetic engineering law in Austria, which was passed here a few days ago, only, since the essential questions are all not clarified. The issue of co-existence has not been clarified, the question of liability has not been clarified – and these are the essential questions. We would have the opportunity to keep the agriculture and also the food sector in Austria largely free of genetic engineering, but: You're not doing anything about it. These are just big words, but nothing happens in reality. The third area: Anti-atomic policy – the next disaster left by this government. There is a milker agreement, a milker protocol, only this – as we have said from the beginning – is absolutely toothless. And you're going to sit down again and explain: Everything's getting better, everything's going to be great! The reality is: nothing gets better, Temelín goes into normal operation, and the Milker Protocol is not implemented at all, zero. There are no improvements, nothing has been achieved for the protection of the people in Austria! The difference between what you tell, you read in ads and your PR propaganda spreads, and reality is like a thousand to one. We already know a minister who has tried to sell a zero in Austria as something great; where it stands today we see. This PR mesh works for a few years, but it really only works for a few years, and then the credibility is there, and credibility should be the highest for a politician. The problem with you saying: I don't care! Your own Credity, destroy your own credibility, and in three years you'll be the same as the Grasser today. But the big problem is that you not only destroy your own credibility, but also the credibility of politics as a whole, and thus you undermine the credibility of all of us here. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Mr. “Professor” Krainer!]] That's a problem, and that's why You deal with things very carefully and also see that what you communicate corresponds in some way to reality. That is not what we have done so far. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e3030	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e3048	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer, I understand: It must be really frustrating and difficult to make opposition policy on agriculture and, above all, the environment, if there is so little to criticize. Then you'd like to get out of areas like Temelín, which naturally touches us all, but you don't move in an area under international law, where you can just snap your finger and say: The Czechs are happy to do this or that. But it is significant where you are making your criticism, that is, abroad, where at least we lack the possibilities for direct influence. But that nothing happened there, even that's not right. Milk is there, and the milker agreement is processed point by point. [[Abg. Oils: Milk is still standing, yes! You mean the pen, don't you?]] The Minister is very keen and careful to ensure that this agreement is actually observed by the Czechs. But let's look at it more warmly: We are in the first place in all rankings, wherever Austria and Austria's environmental situation is assessed. First of all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is not surprising, either, if one manages to raise the environmental budget year after year, despite the need for savings in the budget. We create an increase of almost 10 percent from 2004 to 2006, to almost € 560 million. 560 million €, please! That also does not come from about; no question. Environmental promotion programmes at home and abroad, settlement water management funds – both perfectly functioning instruments of environmental policy. This very, very positive situation leads to regulatory measures in the water sector, in the air, in the field of soil, in the field of old- load renovation, in the area of operating facilities, whether commercial or, for example, in the AWG. Now, not only in Austria, but also in other countries, we actually have a problem that concerns us all, in terms of people's living, people's lives: This is the climate protection area. Everyone has their problems: Traffic is increasing because people are nowhere willing to limit themselves, and much more. Industry has made a fine contribution to reducing emissions, but it is also traded here: € 30 million in addition next year, € 30 million additional next year for climate protection; now for the JI/CDM programme, i.e. in the field of emissions trading – also a contribution to climate protection – another 12 million more this year, another 24 million next year and 36 million from the next year. Moreover, this is a contribution not only to environmental protection, but also to a contribution and a support programme, so to speak, to the domestic industry, which has the opportunity to export environmental technology to a greater extent, precisely through this programme. So in total, apart from the climate protection problem, with which all are fighting, but where we are setting specific measures, a very positive balance sheet! Actually, I don't understand that social democracy is saying here again: Nothing happens! This has also been started in times of your government participation, in many cases the continuation of programmes that have been started with you. I don't understand how to put on the other hat at once and act like you don't have anything to do with it. [[Abg. Sburny: There you are from the ÖVP but perfect in such things!]] Take a little bit of it for yourself! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Krainer: You haven't been there in the last 30 years!]] You don't need to generate for it! But at once to say that it is nothing that the Minister says, that is totally unacceptable! That is totally unbelievable, Mr Krainer. [[Abg. Krainer: Who is unbelievable?]] And that's why: A little more self-confidence would do you good. You don't need to hide all the time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I'm saying, With these increases in the budget, the Minister has managed to give him one more margin for further action to be taken in the field of environmental policy, and to congratulate him on that. Mr Minister, I can imagine that it was certainly not easy in the budgetary negotiations to negotiate these additional resources to the Minister for Finance. I would like to congratulate you very warmly and look forward to this money being used here in this House to implement further measures to promote the environmental situation, to improve the environmental situation in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e3154	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. I would like to have a speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e3172	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! High house! The hat was really funny, Mr. Kopf. We always puzzle how the ÖVP manages to hide the time before 1999 so completely from its memory when it comes to the budget, for example, everything that is somehow bad. There was only a social-democratic single government. - Well, we'll remember the hat. That's really funny! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] To the environmental budget, to the chapter on the environment. I say a few positive things first: What is proven to work well is that the entire funding process – environmental promotion, settlement water management, old-load rehabilitation funds – although – above all, I believe, in the settlement water industry – still needs to reflect on efficiency criteria. Now I come to the negative area, which is a little longer. [[Abg. Head: That was short now!]] – I was short, but I say at least! Here and there you also have a ghost flash, also in politics. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's not like I think everything's bad – on the contrary. The biggest problem area where one really cannot talk about Austria being number 1 in all rankings is climate protection. [[Abg. Neudeck: Now he's in Argentina, the climate!]] That is what you have just referred to, and the development is really worrying. There is no doubt that it is worrying; I think we agree on this, but we do not have to fight around for a long time. [[Abg. Wittauer: You have to go from the standards!]] Austria is now miles away from the reduction target that we set ourselves on the basis of 1990 – minus 13 percent. [[Abg. Wittauer: That's all we know!]] We've been rising since 1990. This means that we are now 21 percent away from our Kyoto reduction target – that's quite a lot! – above all because one has designed the measures one could take, and above all the instruments that are now available, in a very self-evident way. As an example, emissions trading is mentioned, where we have shown that we have made very, very generous concessions to industry – including in European comparison. I mentioned this a few days ago, but I say it again: There are now international comparative studies on the European countries. When it comes to the question of how this new instrument has been applied to emissions trading, Austria is the most generous country in this regard to the industry after Portugal. Mr Wittauer did not understand the last time. [[Abg. Wittauer: No, I will have something to say afterwards...!]] Because the studies have been carried out by a British and a Swedish research institution, he has said that this is quite different in the UK. But that was not meant to be just the study authors who made these comparisons in the UK and Sweden. And they have all compared European states, and worse than we are, only Portugal. – I think that was understandable now, right? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wittauer: That's not true!]] It's not funny, it's a problem in my opinion. It was a hard fight, and I've been watching this very well. I have also observed in Upper Austria how to deal with such industrial enterprises, which then put massive pressure on them, and with arguments such as location protection and job reduction, try to reduce environmental targets and beat out for themselves the best. At such moments, you have to stay tough, Mr. Environment Minister, and not fall by the wayside. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll:... Rudi Anschober!]] The second problem I would like to address is the anti-atomic field. It's up-to-date today: In Upper Austria there is massive criticism by the Upper Austrian head of state and the Environment Council. It goes back to the final approval for the Temelín nuclear power plant of 11 April, in my opinion. October, what I think – and that is, I think, to prove legally waterproof – is quite clearly a breach of the Milk Agreement. If you look at the environmental budget, you can see that the money spent in the anti-atomic field is € 7.6 million, the majority of which is € 5 million, in the milking process that I see as a clear failure. Thus, a rather large budget – perhaps still useful from the initial situation at that time – is now being used for moving paper back and forth, and the Czechs do not stick to it, while the Czech nuclear supervisory authority is still claiming that this is not a problem at all. I am concerned about this, and I am sorry that this process, which has failed, continues to spend money, while only €1.5 million is spent on the energy partnerships, which are very important with Central and Eastern European countries. This is an evidence of poverty, because it is precisely that – in our neighbouring neighbouring countries to promote and build up alternative energy systems – that is the starting point for creating a lobby for the nuclear exodus. Perhaps you can say something about why this is so ridiculously small, with €1.5 million, budgeted, especially in this relation: 5 million € for this writing and reproducing of paper. The last area, which, in my view, is problematic, is waste. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: "Bad"!]] This is a little out of the perspective of public attention and has fallen out of the area of discussion. We had serious discussions with the ex-environmental minister and now present-day clubman Molterer, who took a very serious step at the time, namely: [[Abg. Wittauer: A success story!]] [[Abg. Wittauer: (in the unoccupied place of Abg. May. He's not there!]] Towards binding multi-way quotas – where Austria was very good – towards a voluntary commitment to the economy. We already said: It doesn't work! And with our scepticism, the figures have also given us the right: The quotas in the multi-way area, particularly in the field of mineral waters and lemonades, were very dramatic. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP as well as notice by Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] I think we can talk about our problems. In 1995, we still had almost 100 percent of the number of motorways, especially in the mineral water sector. Now it's less than 50 percent. They announced at the time: If it really does not work, then there are again binding targets, binding quotas. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll:... 80 per cent!]] – From this path you have now left, and you continue on with a voluntary commitment of the economy – which does not work because you simply don’t want to hurt them. – I think this is wrong! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is something that not only falls to consumers because they simply have no choice but above all to the communities. They then have to carry the garbage mountains created by the PET bottles on the community level. This leads to an extra burden - even feared by them - in a very, very high range. Minister for the Environment, I would ask you: It is not always the case that we are dealing with Parliament's head or with the Chamber of Commerce, and then we are working to achieve an environmental objective, but we must really have backbones here and there also to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. This must not be allowed to be operated on in the environmental field! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e3385	Mr Wittauer has now come to the floor. His preferred speaking time is also 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e3413	Mr President. Minister! High house! It's like this: I actually prepared myself well and wanted to refer to the success story of Austria today in the areas of environment and agriculture, but Mrs Glawischnig, of course, gives me the opportunity to talk about things that she apparently did not understand. [[Abg. Brosz: The “Expert Wittauer” will explain this now!]] I have already understood that this is a study of these two countries. I just said one thing: We assume from such a high level that England and other states do relatively easily, I say once, with their goals, while we have objectives that go far beyond normal – what other European states have. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: We have a good starting position!]] And that's why it's a completely different effort for us to achieve these goals – and we're on a good path as well. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Just not!]] [[Abg. Krainer: refusal of reality!]] That is, the environment remains the biggest challenge, even in Austria. But I believe that this is not only a problem for Austria, but also a problem across Europe and the world, especially in the course of globalisation. Even in the context of Easter enlargement, one has to hold on, especially if one considers the traffic: The increases are not caused in Austria alone, but we have a transit, so we have a great burden that comes from outside. And here we have to give the answers, and they need to be clarified Europeanally, not only in Austria alone. [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, give the answers!]] We've heard before that we don't have a success story. – If I look at the industry, which is also so badly tormented, it should be noted that the emissions of carbon monoxide – sources: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: It’s “tormented”!]] House fire, transport and industry – since 1990 have decreased by 31 percent. This is a success! And if we look at the Emissions Certificate Act with regard to Austria's economic location, this is also a success story: It benefits the environment, and it also benefits Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That's no use at all, the certificates!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Glavischnig) It’s “all too little”, what we do! “All too little”!]] The topic of waste: This too is a success story. Overall, annual waste collection in industry, industry and the household has remained the same since 1999, although waste generation – and this is also a global problem – is constantly increasing; thus, the separation of waste is a success story. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] [[Abg. Oils: And what do we learn from it?]] – Well, you have to take note of that! Now, for example, if you take the area of old loads, you have to say: There too we have done a lot! [[Abg. Oils: What did we do?]] The restoration of the landfills is a success story! There's nothing wrong with that. [[Abg. Krainer: They leave us many old loads!]] Of course we have a problem: The trend is moving in a different direction. [[Abg. Krainer: You are the trend!]] We have to fight the trend. We've taken over the 13 percent commitment. We have increase rates: in traffic over 40 percent; we know that. But this is one area where the problems cannot be resolved from one year to the next. We have a Brenner base tunnel that we build; we invest a lot in the rail infrastructure. So there are a lot of measures, and you should finally recognize them a little! [[Abg. Krainer: Yes, we would “know ” that!]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Krainer.]] This positive success story – and I say: also by Minister Pröll! – I don’t even want to do that with a single sentence, I almost think it is common, I want to say – and that has already been suppressed. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig as well as call:I bring a handkerchief]] If I come to talk about agriculture, I have to say: I haven't heard of that before! Agriculture is apparently left out when you talk about the environment. – This is the biggest environmental friend who does the most for the environment, agriculture! That's a fact! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] 40 percent of the Austrian land is processed by farmers and farmers, by our local agriculture. As far as the funding is concerned, the following can be found: We are in absolute excellence – the top of Europe! – in organic farming. Is that nothing? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's all too little! It's all too little! No matter what happens: everything too little!]] We are the leader in food production, in healthy food production. Is that nothing? We have put the first signs in animal welfare – that is what agriculture bears! Is that nothing? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The reds want to cut the funding by 50 percent!]] If you look at the public transport or measures in organic farming or biological measures today, you will find: Over 86 percent of our farmers are there! Is that nothing? It is 86 percent that, I say, get a promotion measure somewhere. Mr Pirklhuber, is that nothing? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Politics should solve problems and not evaluate itself!]] So I'm a organic farmer – I think it's you too, you have sheep; I'm a cattle breeder – and I'm trying to get it over the rounds as a full-time farm. I'm happy with our promotion! I am satisfied with the measures that are being taken. I can't complain I can't get anything! But you may have to work a little more efficiently, then you also get there that you don't even get so little money for biological measures. If you look at the alpine area, you have to say: Especially in sensitive ecosystems – I live in an alpine area – we farmers are the sustainability bad! – There it sounds somewhere – but it doesn’t matter. [[In the ranks of the ÖVP, the mobile phone on a table sounds like a non-representative in the room.]] [[Call to the Greens: This is, I believe, at the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Krainer: An order call for the phone!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr President, Mr Khol will, of course, give me the time to do so, because the issue is so important. The problem of forest management has been addressed before. – Of course this is a huge problem! Over 40 percent of the growth rate is not managed. And why is that so? [[The phone in question is ringing again.]] [[Abg. Krainer: The Amon should turn off his phone!]] [[Deputies Gahr and Jakob Auer are rushing to this bank to turn off the phone.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: This is a mobile phone symphony, Mr President.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – It is true, in turn, that there is a great deal of imports in the European area, that cheap goods are imported and that prices are simply not paid. On the other hand, if we have very dedicated programmes to implement sustainability – whether in the field of electricity generation, or in the heat sector – and we do not get the price in our local forest economy, then this is a problem that we do not only have in Austria, but it is a Europe-wide problem. And we must do something about it, even as far as the objectives are concerned! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Pirklhuber, I am of course of the same opinion as Mr Grillitsch. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Of course! ...!]] I'm glad we don't have a union system. We are free farmers and remain free farmers. And I think that's what honourable Member Grillitsch wanted to say: Someone who owns something and has the responsibility for possession, who has responsibility for his family, he doesn't need a union! , but we need a chamber representation that helps us in certain areas – but not this vague comparison. [[Abg. Broukal:... eh the peasantry! ...!]] So you have to see that right, just as honourable Member Grillitsch did. So we have implemented a lot of areas: the Emissions Certificate Act has been passed, genetic engineering has been an essential area – I think it is also positive to mention – now, just recently, radiation protection, environmental information – that is not the environment, but it is an essential part to, once I say, pursue positive environmental policy – and the EIA – here we are hopefully on a good path, and hopefully we will soon be able to reach the target – the waste management – it is something that always concerns us, and it is also a positive story – and the promotion programme – and that must be mentioned here – in Austria for sustainable energy. That is something that Europe does not have! With these programmes, we will achieve that we generate up to 7 percent of the total energy volume environmentally friendly. And I think these are committed goals! But think of how quickly we have managed to bring low-sulphur fuel to the market! And in connection with the diesel particle filter there are now also promotion measures. [[Abg. Krainer: The government buys the cars with the highest CO2 emissions! The environmental idea didn't matter!]] – Let’s say thank you for the fact that the environment is a priority of this government – and do not always regret it dead by saying that there are many negative things! Of course, the environment is always – I have said it before – the challenge of the future. This area is so complex that you must not see it so unilaterally. For example, there is a problem with which I am very intense – perhaps this will become a focus in the future – that is the spatial order. Spatial planning is directly involved in the environment. However, it is regulated at municipal level. The Minister can't do that! I would like to see overarching concepts that I would even like to see European approaches in this area, because they would be essential to the environment. – However, there are currently no such concepts. I see that the red light on the speaker's desk indicates the end of the speaking time, but the President has given me some time. [[Abg. Broukal: (on President Dr. Khol pointing) He is not aware of anything!]] Thank you for your attention. – Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, please take a heart and say: Mr Minister, you have made a good policy, and we support it!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e3862	Deputies! I can't give you any time, nor can I give you an order call to a heartless cell phone, which is ringing. [[Abg. Krainer: This belongs to the Amon!]] I don't know yet, but I'll talk to the honourable Member. [[Abg. Oillinger: An order call for the entire ÖVP!]] Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll reported. He's got 12 minutes of speech. If he speaks longer, that is expected to be the time of the ÖVP Group. I am therefore setting the time clock at 12 minutes. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e3903	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Following the remarks on agriculture on an important topic for the Austrian site, namely environmental policy in this country. Before addressing the budgetary situation, I would like to address a few key points in this strategy for the positive development of the environment in Austria. There are several priorities that we have to deal with. This is a process: This is not an issue where one achieves a goal and then cuts it off, but environmental policy is a continuous process. The first priority is undoubtedly a global challenge that we have to face, where Austria alone cannot give the answer, but can and will give an important part of the answer: This is the question of achieving the Kyoto climate change target. Mr Krainer! Minus 13 percent based on 1990. Nor am I to say that we have not come closer to this objective in recent years since this development, but even now we have more demand for reduction, but not, as you have said, 25 percent, but – I have to give Madame Glawishig – 21 percent. And what are we doing? Mr President, we have answered the Austrian climate strategy, which sets out a wide range of measures: in the transport sector, in the field of environmental promotion, in the area of space heating, energy efficiency – housing development has been associated with it – and of course also in the issue of emissions trading. Let us not pretend that in recent months we have not made very decisive adjustments. Emissions trading will enter into force on a timely basis. We have held a heated debate – environmental policy and economic policy – on the question: Where are the limits in the capping of the CO2 emissions for Austria's industry? Many of your group's representatives, but also some of the oppositional Greens – and government participants in Upper Austria – have taken a very different position in the question of expanding the location of Voest, namely, of course, this ambitious expansion plan – with a nearly doubling of CO2 emissions! – I have tried to give not only an ecological response in the sense of sustainability, but also an answer for the economic orientation and for the social, labour market policy, orientation of the country. This canal migration has succeeded! How else could it be that the European Commission, the Directorate-General for the Environment, has found our plan to be one of the first plans for emissions trading on the spot and on the spot – apart from two small adaptations – in terms of the environment and as a contribution to the achievement of the European objective under the Kyoto Strategy? So we're on an important and right path. I also think you should not only see the absolute sum of the cover. For businesses that are affected – just over 200 – it also makes sense to invest in CO2-reducing measures now in order to benefit from the corresponding revenue via the sales of certificates – an economic instrument for environmental objectives. We're on the right path! 90 percent of environmental support is currently spent on climate-related investments. This too is a point you will not find in other countries. Second point: Genetic engineering. With the genetic engineering charter, we have provided the political instructions to give the relevant answers and also to implement them. It's something different with the genetic engineering law. This is not my responsibility; it is funny that you have just acted on several occasions by the Socialist Group and have said that there must be a four-eye principle, i.e. not genetic engineering and veterinary issues together in agriculture, but that these tasks should be separated. It came like this. And I think that's right. But then the responsibility to re-establish agriculture is not correct, although I say that the Genetic Engineering Act, which we have decided here, is indicative in Europe, sets out clear rules of liability and serves the objective we have in the government, namely to keep genetic engineering out of Austria as far as possible in the planting of genetically modified plants. That is an important step in the right direction on the part of the federal government. Now, too, the countries in the question of co-existence, on the question of legislation with regard to nature conservation and other measures, have the opportunity, as it were, to turn on the screws. I am in very close agreement with them to find the appropriate answer. Anti-atomic policy. Mrs Glavischnig, you have questioned the €5 million for the milking process. I take it from this discussion today that it is obvious that I should not spend the money for the milker process anymore, that the milker process and the talks with the Czech Republic should end. With regard to my position, you can assume that I will spend the money for experts who talk to the Czech Republic day and night about security improvements. My goal is to make Temelín as safe as possible and not to announce the milk process, but to continue to pursue this path consistently in order to protect the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] It has not been a breach of the Milk Agreement by the partial colluding, which I have repeatedly said. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Ten years of partial collusion?]] To make Temelín as safe as possible, to finish the milking process and also to provide for the budgetary means – that is the right answer. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Very euphemistic interpretation!]] Of course, with the Energy Partnership, we also need to insist on changing to alternative forms of energy. As a result, the Eco electricity Act can be a good example for the ten new member states in order to give a real answer here. [[Abg. Krainer: Disgusting example!]] – Obviously you are not satisfied with the Eco electricity Act, you still want more restrictive, I hear, to proceed and to reduce the amount available in the negotiations once again. [[Abg. Krainer: Where did you hear that? Is that Lopatka's poison kitchen?]] We will see how this is done, ladies and gentlemen. As regards the question of recent successes, now only those of the last days and weeks: We have also given the right answer in the climate strategy with the addition of alternative fuels to fossil energy sources in a load phase due to high costs for fossil energy sources. In 2008: 5.75 percent by-catch from domestic production. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] This is important, Mr Pirklhuber, for the added value in rural areas, for farmers with great environmental benefits, because minus 1 million tonnes of CO2 will result from this measure in 2008. This is more ambitious than in all other European countries. This is an example on a sustainable way to a sustainable energy future for our country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are interesting studies on the question of the awareness of the population that, especially in the cities – and here in Vienna – people believe that 97 percent, for example, the reduction of air pollutants is particularly urgent. The reduction in noise pollution is 84 percent. In this regard, we still have a number of tasks in front of us to find correct answers. Since the answers are not given in the cities, especially in Vienna, I will give them. I am going next week with a noise law in consideration to find the right answers for the future in terms of environmental quality in the urban area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Glavischnig has raised an important issue, namely the issue of multi-way quotas and one-way quotas. In principle, I think that in environmental policy in this country, we should be careful to work together and consistently with the economy. Germany has chosen a different way, has tried a dose-powder – which is also to be questioned, but it stands. However, it has received a clear answer from the European Union: Binding multi-way quotas are illegal in the EU. The German pledge system with the chaos produced is now heavily under pressure by a Commission complaint against Germany. Looks like: If you choose alternative ways, you are often the more efficient and successful way along with the economy. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] In terms of budgeting, with the climate focus of €30 million for 2005 and a further €30 million for 2006, we have put into focus what is contained in the government agreement. We will thus be able to make an effective contribution to achieving the climate change target between 2008 and 2012 – until then we have to achieve this objective. A total of €524.91 million will be available for the environment in Austria in 2005 to improve the quality of life in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4021	Mr Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. 2 minutes. – No value judgments!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4042	This is relatively simple: The Minister has just claimed that the SPÖ would enter into negotiations on the Eco electricity Act in order to reduce the amount of money available for eco electricity. I'm actually correcting: That's wrong! The SPÖ does not want less eco electricity, but more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4096	The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4115	Mr President. Minister! High house! Member of the European Parliament Grillitsch has at the beginning of his speech criticized the lack of presence on the left. Nor is it overwhelming at the ÖVP. [[Abg. Neudeck: But still stronger, Mrs. Colleague! Count it!]] - You're stronger, aren't you? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the agricultural policy of this Federal Government does not agree with the SPÖ, which is not because it sets the wrong priorities and is unable to finally implement a comprehensive structural reform. The bigger the farm, the more support – this is the principle for the 2005 agricultural budget, under the motto “Take the poor, give to the rich!” There is nothing happening where public support is urgently needed, for example among the miners or the organic farms. They should see how they deal with their comparatively minimal promotions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ellwall.]] - Maybe you know better than that. The fact that the income of mining plants fell by 7 percent last year, not only in area 4... – Yes, in area 4! – [[Abg. Keusnigg: Rise!]] That seems to you, Mr Minister, to be far from helping or supporting this. For example, why do you not want to promote mountain farmers more strongly? Do you think that makes sense? – Just as you don't think women's promotion makes sense, Minister Pröll. I would like to remind you of your statement in the Committee on Budgets, and I would like to repeat to the House what you said about the priorities of your funding policy. You have said that you do not want to promote women's projects, but only meaningful projects. They therefore believe that women's projects do not make sense that it is not useful to promote women's employment. Minister! You too are obliged... – He has said that very well. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: He didn't say that!]] He also said that men's projects are not supported either. Minister, you too are obliged to comply with and implement the EU Gender Mainstreaming Directive! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In case you haven't yet understood: This means that as long as there are injustices between men and women, in your government work you must ensure that these injustices are eliminated. [[Abg. Neudeck: That's why we have a men's department!]] Where women have worse chances and lower incomes, you must ensure that these disadvantages are eliminated, including in agriculture. Whether you think it makes sense or not is your private opinion and does nothing about it. Minister! I do not know if you had to act against your conviction when you presented the first prize to the representatives of a project from my region. This was an innovative project under the EU LEADER Plus programme, which encouraged the employment of women and young people in the domestic truck district. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's why I support it... if I forgive a price!]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: There you see again...! Now you have contradicted yourself!]] Finally, I would like to ask you one more question, Mr Minister: Do you think it would be useful to freeze the Chamber of Labour, while the grant for the Chamber of Agriculture will be increased by € 1 million in the 2005 budget?
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4239	The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4260	Minister of Life! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Only a small preliminary remark on what Mr Gradwelt and Mr Schönpass meant, namely that the size of farms would also increase the level of support. So far I have not heard that the Voest that BMW or other large businesses receive the same promotion as a small business. Of course, the bigger a business is, the bigger the challenge is and therefore the more adapted it is. You should take note at least once. I also do not want to thank the Ministry, the Federal Minister, but above all his officials and also the staff in the Chambers of Agriculture very much for the work that is being done so that we can, as it were, look through the jungle of funding, and for their advice. But the greatest thanks is still to the peasant families, the farmers, the farmers and, above all, to the rural youth who are willing to become farmers or farmers even in difficult times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I should also like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Affairs, for the loving and sometimes constructively critical support that Mr Scheuch, Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Gradwelt have given us, because no one can prevent you from doing something even better in common work. Of course! Generally speaking, this is something that is constructive, and I mean everyone, not just the government parties. Everyone! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as agriculture is concerned, I should like to strengthen what Mr Scheuch meant. It is about job security, the need for employment in difficult areas. And agriculture is nothing but a rural economy. 6 billion € per year, at least about 8 per cent of the total construction volume of the construction industry grants agriculture and thus secures direct and indirect 440 000 jobs, according to Wifo study! Therefore, critical reliefs regarding support should also take into account what is happening here. Ladies and gentlemen! Tourism has been addressed. Yes, agriculture needs and supports a functioning tourism – on the one hand, it contributes through landscape care, but on the other hand, we also need a functioning tourism because there is a huge market for our agricultural products. What are the prospects of rural areas? – There are opportunities that have been demonstrated by some regions of their own strength, supported by an excellent policy. But it is also clear that there are problems. An example from my home country Upper Austria: In 65 out of 445 municipalities in Upper Austria there is no food business anymore, no so-called Greißler who lacks local care. There are no gas stations in 176 municipalities in Upper Austria. There is no practical doctor in 105 municipalities in Upper Austria and no event in 82 municipalities. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is a dramatic development, which should not be concealed. There are various ways of supporting, and I am pleased when it is announced at 11 a.m. on the occasion of a press conference that the agreement on financial compensation is on the health package. For financial compensation perhaps another time a very intense debate, but it is already crucial: How can rural competitiveness be maintained? If there is not any of these facilities, there will be emigration. That's what we need to see clearly. Another aspect of competitiveness, which is always required by agriculture, and at the same time a reference to the differences in support in Austria. Who in Europe has prevented there from being a cover for large businesses of a certain kind? . I would like to know which family farms are presented under the name of Mrs Künast. In Germany, 400 hectares are still considered the size of a family business, because one simply has certain obligations from the former East. One can only dream of such sizes in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. The same applies to livestock stocks and many other areas. I have here from Serbia a presentation of a pig farming and fattening farm. [[The speaker keeps a prospectus up to date.]] 2 000 mother sows, 40,000 mast pigs, the manure – that's what it's called here – is disposed of biologically. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: To damage your own population!]] Yes, simply released to the ground, without liquid containers, without “liquidness” and without regulations, when and how it is brought out. And then, ladies and gentlemen, do you want to compete with these companies? – In this regard, we still have some information work in front of us. I thank the Federal Minister for the agricultural budget, I thank him for his work, but I still have a request: So many bureaucracy in some areas close to us – I'm just saying the keyword AMA – would actually have to question. Fewer bureaucracy would make life much easier for many farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4317	Next speaker is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4335	Mr President. Minister! High house! I now have the task of going through the issues, from agriculture to the environment, but that sometimes fits better together than you think, or not. I would just like to comment on the trade union question: The largest organization of the peasants in the Roman area, in Spain, is COPA, which is a farmer's union. I find this division strange. Trade union is just a representation, that's not a bad thing. I think that's strange. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We have put specific questions on the budget on the subject of rural education and training. We have asked exactly where the gender aspect is taken into account, and have received a very cold answer from my point of view. In fact, it is pointed out that around 50 percent of farms in women's marriage communities are run in the agricultural and forestry communities and all promotion measures apply to them. - No, no, no, no, no, What's that supposed to mean? I don't think I have to start talking here in this House about whether there is a difference in whether there are training opportunities for women or for men. This makes a difference in rural areas. I'm not going to start here with Adam and Eve. I have been working for 20 years in the training of and with farmers and I know how complicated this is. This has led to the fact that, for example, a farmer could only be trained if she sold sausage to us at the same time. We have always bought her the sausage so that she could continue to participate in the training measures, otherwise she should not have come. We are not talking about the last century, that is also the case in 2004. This is so important because small and medium-sized farms play a very important role in rural areas. If the women leave the rural area, for example, as it is now happening in the South Styria, because they simply have better trainings and are no longer willing to live on farms under poor conditions, it also plays a role in saying that they should take advantage of these offers if they simply cannot drive away because too few workers are on farms. We have to promote small and medium-sized enterprises more or less, Mr Auer, than the large enterprises. That's clear. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The small farms or the medium-sized farms are not a relic from past times. They have a high potential for technical and social know-how that is lost for the whole rural area when the courts close. And once the barn door has closed, it doesn't go up again; we know that. Now another comment on a budget item, where I liked something very much. We asked what reason for granting transitional aid to live pigs, pigs for fattening and breeding sows – this is at least €500 000! – and there the Minister said a little shame: This is for the camp!, and did not want to miss out on it. But when we asked specifically whether there was support for non-genotechnic food in production and also for marketing, he has already said very badly what we are actually imagining why he should support individual industries. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I’m never “inherited”!]] Of course, there is a need for extra support, even if the pig storage is supported with extra €500 000! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will not get the support and promotion of food produced free of genetic engineering, because we will have to invest very massively in research. But this is all about us, including in the budget approaches. We have hardly found anything in this respect, just a few lean research projects, which, by far, do not meet the needs. We know from the genetic engineering people's desire that there is a great need there and that people are also willing to pay more for it. Now I come to an area that is not at all taught, although it is so important, to the Alpine Convention. This agreement on the special conservation of the Alpine region comes into force in the 13th century. Year. She's exactly 13 years ago, and she's 7th. ==References====External links== We will be taking over the presidency this year – you, Minister, but Austria as a country, I do accept or hope at least – but there is no single budgetary approach in the budget. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Me!]] The answer is that this is covered by current budget resources. Minister! What's that supposed to mean? – That means that someone from the ministry – I suppose; I don’t know, I can only suspect – who has already performed this – probably very well – will continue to perform this function within the framework of his official activity. I would just like to point out that there are two fixed people in Berlin for this, although the Alpine share of Germany is by far not as large as the Alpine share of Austria. In addition, we also have the Permanent Secretariat. – I am really sorry that we do not take this opportunity because the area of Alps, transport and climate protection in the Alps, has a very central importance for us. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to give you a list of the agriculture ministers of the last century – because I always like to be able to give you something on the way home – and perhaps also because of that, in order to incite you a little bit, I do not want to continue in politics which the predominantly black ministers who have accompanied agriculture in the last 100 years, so to speak, has led to the fact that now the share of farmers and farmers in the population is only more than 4.5 percent, as I know. – If you continue this way, we will soon no longer have farmers in Austria despite very high funding!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4411	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4429	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Rest-Hinterseer, the gender aspect is generally seen as a cross-sectional matter, and I think you should also note that the Ministry of Infrastructure for the broadband initiative, which is particularly for rural areas, and especially for women, has a great advantage, is planned for over €10 million. You can see from the good example of Tyrol that 100 percent are already supplied there. This is a very good support measure, especially for rural areas, for non-balancing centres. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Agriculture and environmental protection are, of course, very closely related, and I can say that I myself come from a rural region, that it is really clear that farmers are very active in environmental protection. Now to the environmental budget. The budget figures clearly show that the environment is a focus of the policy of this black and blue coalition. It is an important concern that we have an intact environment in the future. More resources are available for the 2005 budget than this year, and compared to 2000 the budget for the environment has increased by even double. . We can therefore rightly say that this is a real success in the field of environmental protection. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The question of efficiency also arises!]] Another important point that has been mentioned today is the climate strategy and climate protection. It is a fact that climate change has a very strong impact on us. Extreme weather events often lead to environmental disasters – the flood of 2002 is also very deep in the bones in Upper Austria – and therefore, of course, it is very important to pay particular attention to those factors that lead to climate change – and these are greenhouse gases. The fact that climate-related measures are more available in financial resources shows once again the great sense of responsibility of this federal government. Compared to 2004, where the first increase already took place, more than €30 million will be available for climate-related measures in 2005. The climate strategy is a whole package of measures: on the one hand, measures in the field of environmental promotion, on the other, JI/CDM programmes, i.e. the purchase of emission reduction units from climate protection projects abroad, because we already have to remember: The climate does not stop at our state borders. It is therefore important that we strive worldwide to counteract climate change. An important measure in Austria is, of course, climate protection in the field of transport, because, as we know, transport is one of the main causes of greenhouse gases and is also the area that is growing the fastest. That's why I'm saying: Thank you, Minister, for your programme “climate:active” especially in the field of transport for climate protection. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The provision of increased financial resources for the environment shows that the environment of this federal government is a concern and that environmental policy is also taken seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4478	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry. I'd like to set the clock to 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4496	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Despite the short period of time also some remarks on the statements made by my previous speakers. First to Point Climate protection: Six years have passed since Kyoto, and with regard to the successes of the last six years – there was also the resolution of the Ministry of the Environment – it is so beautiful: stable at a high level. Minister! 2008 and 2012 are here very soon, and if the successes continue to be the same as we have seen in the last six years, the goal will not be achieved. Mr Wittauer, on the “free farmers”, the “free farmers” of the AMA, who also referred to Mr Auer, the “free farmers” of the Raiffeisen, and so on: The union is called the Great Farmers' Association – but unfortunately it does not play with it, but this union dictates the agricultural policy! [[Abg. Wittauer: We find that we are free farmers!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about the harvest in the agricultural policy. Let's look at the harvest! . After all, the EIAs attach great importance to looking at the budget no longer in absolute terms, but in relation to GDP. [[Abg. Wheelers: The harvest is good!]] I'd like to do that, Minister of State. They had a very restrictive budget in 2001. That's what it said: Consolidation, consolidation, consolidation! Everything was cut together. At that time you had an agricultural budget of 0.89% of GDP. Now we are talking about the time of harvest, the good harvest. – The good harvest, my colleague, is 0.845 percent of GDP! – This is a good harvest if I have five hundredths less? [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wheeler]] In general, Mr. Cot, this is an abuse that you will encounter in 2005. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, there are profiters, and there we are again at the “Great Farmers’ Association”. [[Abg. Grillic: Who?]] The “Great Farmers’ Federation” has managed to implement the CAP reform with its representation in the AMA and with its representation in the Chamber. How was it implemented? – As they need it, they have implemented it! The modulation was not taken seriously, a sham modulation was performed. The tendency that – I say: perhaps not from the poor to the rich – it is certainly from the little ones to the big, can be seen in every green report. Mr Wittauer said he was satisfied. – Dear colleague, the speech you gave today, I'll stop, you'll hear it a few more times. I'll see you again. Mr Wittauer is fully satisfied and thank you. [[Abg. Wittauer: Of course I am satisfied with the promotion! I've got to work out the other one myself!]] Federal Minister! There's still a lot to do. There is no question that environmental protection depends on small farmers and not on the large ones. The greater the company, the greater the interest to adopt these important issues of political importance. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4585	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4603	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My body size is 1.75 meters, I am a “average” farmer with 45 hectares of land that I also manage myself, so I can explain details to you. If Mr Kummerer has a need for statistical sizes, I would recommend the corresponding documents in the Green Report, where he will be able to understand them in detail. Mr Schönpass has what has surprised me very much, because I have remembered her as very correct, claiming that the small farmer – I do not know what definition she has applied there – is taken away. I notice: That is incorrect, Mrs Colleague! See, please, in the Green Report! There you will be able to understand that there has tend to be an improvement for small farms in terms of area size. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The energy flow picture of the Republic of Austria shows that more than 1,200 petajoule energy is consumed annually in Austria. The trend is rising! Circa 370 Petajoule alone make up the losses. These are conversion losses, conduction losses and the like. It is gratifying that the Austrian energy output with about 400 petajules – you can see the comparison: this is almost the same size as the losses! – primarily or largely from renewable energy sources, i.e. from hydropower and biomass. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it must not be forgotten that energy imports are constantly increasing. The comparison of oil imports shows that it has almost doubled since the 1970s. It is all the more gratifying that we can cover our own resources primarily from renewable energy sources, ladies and gentlemen. The dominant sectors of consumption are space heating and transport in connection with energy consumption. But these are precisely those areas that concern us in parallel with the environment – especially with regard to the Kyoto objective. This means that energy saving has a dominant meaning because it has a double use: On the one hand, we save a lot of money for import energy, on the other hand, we massively reduce greenhouse gases. The massive activity of our Federal Government in this area, as clear and clear accents are set, is evident from the fact that the 2005 budget for the environment provides around €524 million and €559 million for the environment for 2006. This means increasing the environmental budget by around 10 percent in two years. This creates the basis for a positive development in the environment. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As an energy and environmental milestone, I see the fact that in the future biofuels will be normal, It is also important to ensure that fossil fuels are mixed. It is clear and clearly visible that this Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management sets significant priorities in the environmental field, for example in the implementation of the EU Biofuel Directive, which provides for an addition of 2 per cent in 2005 and an addition of 5.75 per cent in 2010, it seeks to ensure that Austria achieves these values earlier. For example, Austria will have reached 2.5 percent in 2005 and 5.75 percent in 2008. That is why it is so important – and this is recognised by the recent world political events – because we are massively reducing the dependence on oil imports. This is even more difficult than those oil imports come primarily from areas which are very unstable in the world. Ladies and gentlemen! I see an important element in environmental protection in the form of opinions. I can say here that in my home region, the forest district, many communities have joined forces to the energy agency Waldviertel in order to work out this topic intensively and give positive examples themselves as communities, such as in the form of contracting models, in the form of biomass projects, in the form of energy savings and in the form of renewable energies. This model effect is therefore so significant because it is intended to color the population – and also must, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Given the data available on the environmental budget and the fact that our Minister of State is very intensive about the problems ahead of us, I believe that in Austria, environmental policy is made with weight – with political weight – by our Minister of State. – Thank you for your valued attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4673	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. Your welcome time is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4695	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Environment, transport, consumers, health, agriculture: These are concepts that are not only semantic in a certain neighborhood but also politically closely interconnected. Not for nothing, Minister, you have probably commissioned a survey where the quality of life in the “City Living Room” has been studied. This survey has led to a result which, as I believe, we have already suggested to you at least half a year before that in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, by means of a request. You know exactly, Minister, that noise next to air pollution is the city's main problem. That is why I would suggest that you do not make extra surveys, because the result is clear. You don't need to ask for a long time, because you don't need to work with methodological or scientific approaches, but you really just have to talk to the people in the city – in the country we have other problems, I talk to you about them afterwards – and then you already have the desired information, namely: bad air quality and noise pollution. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Minister, I really wonder now, as noise and air quality are closely related to traffic, as some of these surveys have shown: What to do You in the transport sector? Which contacts do you maintain? Your colleague Gorbach? What contacts do you have with the Minister of Finance with regard to control instruments in order to really address the main causes of these loads, namely air pollution and noise, constructively? You need alliances with the Minister of Finance, you need a different tax system. They need a tax system that punishes environmental pollution and relieves personnel/work force. That's why I'm still pleading – and right now As an environmental minister, you already have to do so for a long time – to introduce an eco-tax in order to reduce the air pollution, so that noise levels are reduced, so that labour force is relieved, and thus agricultural production is being re-selled, a larger market is found. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I miss her commitment towards the new tax system, which packs the problems at the roots very much. Another problem – noise and traffic I have already mentioned – is consumer protection. The greatest concern of consumers is clearly food safety. What is coming on the table should really be of absolutely good quality. And you, Mr Minister, have the responsibility for a central body for ensuring food safety in Austria. You yourself may have already mentioned it: The Agency for Health and Food Safety has a fundamental financial problem by disseminating the respective Federal Offices and so on, through certain restructurings! – You have now succeeded in negotiating additional €7 million in negotiations with the Minister of Finance for this year. But the situation in the coming years and especially from 2007 onwards is clearly to be qualified with the technical term “undercovery”. In concrete terms, sub-covery means that the 2007 AGES will go into bankruptcy if additional financial resources are not made available. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not understand that you, in your dual role as Minister of Agriculture and Environment, to which the quality of food really should be of the heart, no longer prevail and no longer ensure that the AGES is guaranteed in its basic equipment, its basic financial resources, in 2007. Remember: These additional 7 million are the fee for BSE investigations – the white bill for BSE investigations! – because the countries no longer pay what your colleague, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, told me in a reply to a question. What about the additional requirements? We have some trial analysis periods in the AGES, which last up to several months, and I have also found a very up-to-date reply from the Minister for Health on my table. The problem of long sample throughput times is known on site. We need faster sample throughput times so that the consumer's warning can take place earlier and something is not already digested ten times, until finally the red light shines in the AGES. This is also a question of financial dispensation. You know the structural plans. Now the Bacteriological-Serological Research Centre in Linz is closed because you want to concentrate everything in Vienna. Similarly, the food laboratories, the former Bundesanstalts in Salzburg, Graz, Klagenfurt and Linz, namely the transfer of food control on site in the form of these laboratories to Vienna, there, without equipping them with the appropriate human resources. This means that sampling is likely to have to be reduced and that overall quality and know-how will also suffer, that one makes 08/15 investigations, but no more special investigations! All this just happens because the savings pen, because the red pencil dictates and you don't defend yourself against it! You need to tell the Minister of Finance only completely banally: Currently, € 7 per person in Austria is spent on food safety, the AGES. If 10 € per person would be spent, this would be a financial guarantee that really guarantees food safety and quality. – This is a very simple argument. Please, make sure you agree with that! [[Abg. Neudeck:... 40 percent more!]] Finally, a note from your own magazine. I am happy to read the journal “Ländlicher Raum”, not only in Parliament, but sometimes in the train. In this I have found a very positive point of view, namely in the title of the article: “More Agricultural Products from Austria – Better for Climate, Environment and Economy”. Yes! I would like to stress this as a consumer speaker! We can massively reduce CO2 emissions by reducing traffic by substituting 10 to 30 percent of food imports through local, probably also higher quality domestic production. We can thus secure jobs; this article mentions 17 000, 49 000 jobs in this context. But I miss an initiative from you to really promote this aspect of climate protection, this transport reduction aspect, to advance this quality aspect! And please, don't use the money for surveys, the No-Na-Net! results like: People are burdened by air pollutants and noise. - We know that anyway. So use your money to advertise for domestic products. This benefits farmers, brings food quality to consumers and at the same time constitutes a climate protection measure, so also includes climate protection aspects! I see in this a perspective which can then also be reflected in budget figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4758	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4777	Madam President. Federal Minister! I have followed the previous debate very closely, giving the impression that the government parties are debating a different chapter from the opposition parties. We debate the environment and agriculture, you obviously disaster protection. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We are talking about the 2005 budget, about the basic balance!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Who manages to say only one sentence on the positive environmental development in Austria over the past 25 years – a single sentence! – and everything else sees only negative, I must say: I will not resort to this negative debate, I will leave the red-green raunzer zone and tell you the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] The truth is that in terms of quality of life, Austria has been in place 1 for three years, 7th place in the global sustainability index, and that we have managed to find many friends for environmental protection in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Start singing! Vote for a choral!]] Mr. Krainer muttered over the fact that everyone has to be responsible for it. - Yes! That is exactly the success recipe in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! The population participates in, the economy participates, the communities participate, the politics participates. [[Abg. Mandak: And the air goes on it!]] This is the success recipe for being a model country in the field of environmental protection within Europe. [[Abg. Rest-Hinterseer: Not anymore!]] [[Abg. Krainer: This is refusal of reality!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, however, we should not forget the view of reality either: Austria is a small economy in Europe. Enlargement has a high need for environmental protection investments in the new Member States. If we help these countries to get on their feet in the area of environmental protection, it is good for Europe and therefore good for Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's right!]] I would particularly like to highlight an industry which, from my point of view, is very interesting, but whose development is not so much appreciated or seen in the public, namely the environmental technology industry. There are now hundreds of companies that have become know-how carriers over the past 25 years, which have an export rate of 60 percent that has enormous sales growth, sectors such as biomass technology, energy efficiency, solar technology with approximately 16 000 employees currently. In these areas, 85 000 people, together with the environmental services sector, are now finding a job. I think we should not ignore that there are huge opportunities for this industry in the candidate countries, because this industry has a technological advantage and because we have been dealing with environmental protection for a very long time in Austria. We have a competitive edge through the know-how, but also through the geographical proximity. The enormous efforts to adapt to EU environmental standards in countries such as Bulgaria and Romania will lead to high environmental investments in the coming years. There are market potentials up to €200 billion here! I have mentioned this sector very consciously, because I believe that it is an indicator that Austria has taken a pioneering role here in recent years, and I do not think – that was also an accusation from you – that we only know the past until 1999. Especially the environmental sector shows that we have been very, very successful in this area for 25 years. In this sense, we will agree to the budget so that this successful environmental policy can be continued under the leadership of Minister for the Environment Josef Pröll. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4913	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Gaßner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e4931	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! My Mr Vorsprecher meant that he would like to say something positive about this runny, from this green-red raunzerek. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] I'd rather go back to this raunzerek, because it's almost embarrassing to have this Halleluja song and this "thank you" and cover it all and then finally notice that the ÖVP agrees to this budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That, please, is really too much of the good! [[Interlocutory calls from Mrs Ellmauer and Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The rural area, rural development, has already been the subject of more frequently today, and we have also addressed a question to you, Mr Federal Minister, how much is put into large-scale non-agricultural support from the resources available in the rural area. They answered us that it was about 2.4 percent. And with a sentence I'll read to you now, you've explained why you can't tell which projects these are. They said: The final allocation of funds between the various measures is therefore not a priority. – I ask myself, Minister: Why can't that be certain? If there are projects, why don't you tell us? I claim that the increase in funding that is available for this year is used again as is the usual practice in your policy: To the big farms, to the big farms, away from the little ones! – In doing so, I say, you are also destroying rural areas, because the little ones, Mr Minister, are the ones who are maintaining the cultural landscape for us. It is the little ones who are still making us liveable in this area, and they can no longer live because they cannot live by these promotions! Mr Auer – there he is again – says: What the hell is this? Get away from the big ones, go to the little ones – that's wrong! In the economy it also looks like the big ones get more than the little ones. And he mentioned BMW as an example. Yeah, that's right! Only, Mr Auer, have you ever compared how many jobs BMW creates and how many jobs large farmers create? That, I think, is the real problem we need to talk about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Where is Austria in relation to EU large farmers?]] Rural space. - The small farmers die away. As Mr Auer has already said, There's no more close-up supplies, there's no food dealers, there's no hosts, there's no more carnivores. Do you know what's not there? – There are no longer the Gendarmerie Posts that have been closed, the District Courts you have closed from the ÖVP, the Post Offices you have closed. [[Call at the ÖVP: The one has closed!]] On Saturday we will learn that 350 post offices will be closed again. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This rural area is eroded by black and blue – from post offices to agriculture, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: If you continue to talk this way, we are also responsible for the “consumer”!]] If this is not stopped, we have no future in rural areas! And if I read in this sustainability report of the Ministry that the rural regions of Austria are also residential and economic areas, nowhere else in Europe is there a greater proportion of the total population in regions, which in the broadest sense are to be referred to as rural areas, then, Mr Federal Minister, I must say: Do something for the people living in rural areas, and not just for the big farmers!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5029	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5047	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaßner, you said you were going back to the ravine. That's exactly what makes the difference: You are rauncing, we are working for the people in this Republic of Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Especially the farmers work very much for the well-being in this Republic and ensure that all citizens in our country are at their disposal at all times of the highest quality and in a variety that is not of course available. Security of supply is not a matter of course! Security of supply and secure self-sufficiency must continue to be a policy objective. And with this budget, the ÖVP and its government partners will ensure that this objective will continue to be respected and achieved in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it is necessary to see that farmers receive cost-effective prices that they can generate income. Mr Pirklhuber's discussion has also been directed to milk. As a farmer's representative, I have succeeded in bringing everyone to a table: the producers, the farmers, the processors, says: the dairies, the trade and also the consumers. And in a common memorandum, it has succeeded that all have come to know themselves at fair prices. Remarkable is also – and I am speaking to the left half of the empire – that the Chamber of Labour from Salzburg believes that 90 cents of milk prices in trade are quite palatable. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] Let's live by it! I beg you, we'll live after that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The farmers, however, do far more services for this country. I am particularly grateful to the farmers who are a cornerstone in our society, but also to the farmers. The design of our habitat is one of the central tasks of our farmers. Landscape, ladies and gentlemen, you can't import. The landscape maintained and designed by farmers is also one of the foundations for other sectors, such as tourism. And that's a performance that requires a counterperformance. This will allow me to return to this big/small debate, which will focus on promotions: What the farmers get is not promotions, but consideration for the benefits they provide! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is funding in the investment sector – okay! – but if someone is, for example, a organic farmer, he has less income and more expenditure. That's why he needs a counter-performance! And because he has these lower yields and the additional benefits in the first acre as well as in the 100th acre, of course he also needs these benefits in the 100th acre, otherwise he cannot deliver these benefits. And if you're talking about the little ones, The AZ base, Mr Cot, is an essential measure that has been taken there. The ÖVP not only manages to maintain existing measures, such as the environmental programme or the mining direct payments – I can thank the former Minister Molterer and the current Minister Sepp Pröll for the possibility – but we also create new measures, for example in the tax reform, to improve competitiveness in the form of mineral oil tax reimbursement. [[Abg. Dr. One: “Thanks!”]] We'll get discharge! In contrast, you want taxes from the SPÖ! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ reform proposal deals with basic tax, inheritance tax. We want to get rid of the burden, you want to burden! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] The farmers, ladies and gentlemen, and I come to the conclusion, shape the habitat and create quality of life for all people in the country. For this purpose, farmers and farmers are entitled to an adequate return. With this budget, the ÖVP and its government partners ensure that this return is made, in the interest and benefit of all people in our country. [[Abg. Dr. One: That’s why “Thank you! ”]]
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5169	The next speaker is Mrs Binder. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5187	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eßl, I only remind you to this day of 41 load packages or loads that you have decided with your partner. [[Call the ÖVP:For example?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The distribution of existing and budgeted resources, the increase in levies, and so on, and so on – I only have two minutes – have priority in this chapter, Mr Minister. [[Interlocutory calls at the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Distribution is an important word when it comes to parts, especially today on Martin's day. This is an important aspect, but above all we are also concerned with justice and the distribution of justice between the poor and the rich, between large and small farmers, between farms and rural areas, and above all between women and men. The Federal Government has come up with keywords. But now the questions are: Where is the sowing, where is the harvest, where is a balding actually taking place, and where are the prospects for the future that affect women above all? Women in particular play an important role in social and social matters, especially in rural areas. On the one hand, we have farmers who are employed in agricultural holdings and on the other we have women who live on the farm and do not work in farms. Both groups of women have major problems, especially with regard to the right to a comprehensive network of childcare, to a functioning public transport network and above all, Mr Minister, to education and training. You, Mr Federal Minister, left the question open in a question to Mrs Rester-Hinterseer, who is actually continuing training now. I think you owe us an answer. The women in rural areas, in the countryside, need your support and above all have the right to support, because this gives them a chance – especially to survive. I think that's why women's promotion has absolute priority. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I very much like the motto of a Lungauer peasant project: If the farmer sits on the computer, the farmer stops the butter!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5246	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5264	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The budget chapter environment in the Federal estimates 2005 is proof that we are taking on responsibility and setting up a policy that is not just about today. We make politics for tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and stand for a responsible view into the future. Sustainability is important to us. We cannot give a better service to our subsequent generations, our children and young people. This is particularly true of Chapter 61 in this budget. My group stands for an active economic policy and we have successfully implemented structural reforms. Our economic comparison data can be seen worldwide. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, look beyond the borders of Austria! Austria impresses not only with its economic data but also with its environmental data and is in the forefront in terms of quality of life worldwide. With the budget chapter environment, we can continue the success story in this area. Austria is number 1 in the European Union in the field of environmental protection. We are continuing this successful path. From 2004 to 2006, the budget for air conservation will be increased by €30 million annually in order to get closer to the Kyoto target. Other approaches to reducing greenhouse emissions are the transport and space heating sectors in particular. As far as transport policy is concerned, measures are necessary as CO2 emissions in this area have increased by 42 percent over the last decade. The main part of an improvement can only be done through technical innovations. Here I refer particularly to the tax advantage for new registrations of diesel cars with built-in particle filter. In this context, it is also important to mention the thermal renovation and energy saving. My home country is an excellent example of environmentally friendly energy policy. Since 2000, 4 900 houses have been converted energy-saving, 23 000 heatings have been adapted, 50 large solar plants have been built and solar panels have been installed on more than 650 000 square meters. [[Abg. Murauer: Bravo!]] Austria is admired by many guests who come to us because of the excellent water quality of our rivers and lakes. Our rivers have the best water quality, our lakes – especially in the Salzkammergut – have drinking water quality, which should remain the same. This continuity represents the support that will be given to the urban water economy in the 2005 budget. Its considerable cash value between 2002 and 2008 is €218 million, which in the old currency corresponds to more than 3 billion schilling annually. My group has worked intensively to ensure that this successful policy in the urban water industry is continually being pursued in order to deliver an intact environment to the coming generations. That is why I would like to agree to the 2005 Budget, and hence to Chapter 61, Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5304	The next speaker was Mrs Walther. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5322	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear guests at the gallery! Mr Scheuch has come up to say that we are talking about a “class struggle Bauer against Bauer”. – You and everyone who has also mentioned this know exactly that it is not about such categories, but about the eligibility that is not given. Above all, it is about the threatening abandonment of small farmers – there are, you all know, even the mayors know that – which are important for the management of rural areas and, of course, also for tourism. Mr Gradwelt pointed out that distribution justice was not at all right. 48 percent to recall it again, get 84 percent of the funds, 52 percent 16 percent of the funds. For cereal and maize farmers, the share of funding amounts to 94 percent of the income, with special, extreme difficulty in mining, Group 4, only 56 percent. The hard-working farmers have really not deserved this! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Rest of interest.]] Women in rural areas in particular work hard. You know, if you can't work with machines, how hard and hard the work is and how many women in the country do this work. The SPÖ is therefore committed to promoting mining businesses, ensuring that organic farms are protected and promoting bioenergy, for example hacks, but also solar energy in rural areas in the municipal context. I am thinking of cooperation between agriculture and local authorities in the field of energy supply. [[Abg. Auer: We're hot with it!]] In this respect, there should be support because jobs in rural areas are creating jobs, because they also promote agricultural value added, because someone has to raise the wood, and because it helps to achieve the Kyoto targets in which we are lagging behind with the 21 percent reduction targets. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5363	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Schools. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5381	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! It's always the same thing: The terms are exchanged, the terms are mixed, and disorder comes into the discussion. With the colleagues of the Socialist Group, I have the impression at all that we heard all the speeches in the previous year and in the previous year. I think it's really true that You have an exchange exchange for second-hand speeches. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Reheis: Nothing has changed with you in recent years!]] More dangerous is Mr Pirklhuber, because he really knows how a false prophet moves through the area, exchanges the terms and insecures the farmers. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] He is in a way driving his intellectual ridicule with the need, the concern of the farmers and the fear of the future that everyone has. That's a very dangerous story. Let's stick to the truth! The truth is, our Minister of Life is the most successful Minister of Agriculture and the Environment, which Europe currently has, which is proven several times and is easy to prove. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister Pröll has achieved great success in a short time. He has shown in a short time how he understands the agricultural policy, and above all that he understands the farmers and sees the needs to take the right steps. Water protection is ensured, Kyoto commitments are fulfilled. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: Finally, that we hear that Molterer didn't bring anything together!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Steps will be taken next year, which are very important and essential! We are entering the bio-fuel mix in transport and are thus calling out the solar age for road traffic. That's the beginning, it's not the end yet, but it's the first important step. So that means that in the future every field is a solar power plant that supplies fuel for any car. Since you laugh at the back there, Mr. Col. von der OMV, I would like to tell you that a hectare of wheat for a car for 25,000 kilometers would deliver alcohol for pure use, and with a hectare of sugar beet you could even drive 50 000 kilometers – in pure use. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: How much has the rape harvest gone down last year?]] That's a good competition, and we like to get in there. Every field will be used for production in the future. That means: End of set-aside, entry into a meaningful, forward-looking, environmentally conscious production. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Our food has succeeded in the best quality, top quality, export offensives. Thank you, Minister of State, you really did something! – Hallelujah twice, but Easter comes first! - All right, it's all right. [[Abg. All right: Hallelujah!]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Luja I say!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Dear friends! We know we have good products. But we have a problem that we need to talk about in the next few days; it has already been discussed today. Unfortunately, our trade chains for our top-quality products and top-fries are refusing us the prices at our disposal. This is a subject that we need to talk about in the near future. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: Yes, exactly!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This is a good example!]] I'll tell you one thing: It is only possible to achieve excellence because the majority of farmers are so well-trained because they are diligent because they are fair and because they produce what we expect from them as consumers and as Austrians. [[Abg. Krainer: Mr Schultes, tell us...!]] The board's deliberations help them to ensure that it is appropriate, even if, in some socialist-led states, the financing of the chambers is reduced without major discussions. [[Abg. Krainer: Watch out for the microphone!]] I'll tell you one thing: We are well on the road, we solve the problems, even if they are difficult, we do not negate problems, but we solve and master them. And that is why we do because our farmers can rely on us, with a Federal Minister Pröll, whom we are proud of! Austria can be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5587	Mrs Mandak spoke in favour of an actual correction. Madam President, you are familiar with the Rules of Procedure: first with the part to be corrected, then with the correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5608	Madam President. Mr Schultes has just said that the Kyoto target is being met. – This statement is not true! On the contrary: We have the Kyoto target... [[Abg. Hornek: You can't even know that!]] Of course you can know that! [[Abg. Hornek: But you don't know anything!]] If you were going to deal a little bit with the situation, you'd know that. [[Abg. Krainer: You can't ask an ÖVP member to deal with the subject matter!]] The Kyoto target is not being met. Austria has never fulfilled it, and at present the development is in such a way that we are constantly drifting away from it. It would be nice if the Minister would briefly confirm the statement I have just made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5686	The next speaker was Mr Wimmer. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5704	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A statement on Colleagues Schultes: Mr Schultes said Mr Pröll was the best Minister of Agriculture ever. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP: One of the best!]] Your colleague, you agreed to say that, because your clubman called Molterer outside. Now he's in the hall. I hope you repeat it again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! You are always good for surprises, and we almost always expect something new, but it has never been the case that you have expressed yourself so clearly. They thanked the Minister of Finance today for taking away the Austrian Federal Forests 100 million Schilling. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Euro! We have the euro now!]] – Sorry, 100 million € – that’s even worse! It's kind of grotesque. I can say from this point of view: You are the chief owner, and I therefore believe that you should finally oppose the predatory tendencies of the Minister of Finance. That's what the Austrian Federal Forest staff want, and that's what they're asking you to do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: I heard you praised me! What mistake did I make?]] In addition – the situation is completely crazy – the Federal Forests do not have this money at their disposal. The €100 million must be entered in the form of loans, and this is ultimately a disaster. After the light is already shining, I would like to address another point, namely the location of the forestry training site in Gmunden, Orth Castle. You probably know the problem. It is not even two years since you made the decision that Ossiach and Gmunden should be put together. We were very skeptical at the time because we always had the suspicion that you want to make one from two units again. This is usually so common, but you promised us that these sites will continue to be preserved. Now it looks a little different. From media reports we have been able to see the following: The sale of the land castle Orth is more than a rumor. The following can be found in an article of last week: Forest training Landschloss Orth passé. Mr Federal Minister, a question on this matter, and I ask you to answer it: Does the Gmunden site stay upright, or do you really want to close this site? A comment on Mr Auer, who spoke about the rural area: Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is a disaster which has occurred in recent months, but Mr Auer, as Mr Gaßner has mentioned, has forgotten a lot. I would like to point out to you, Mr Auer, the example of Salzkammergut, how this Federal Government has dealt with rural areas. Federal Minister Platter: Kasernenschluss in Obertraun, 50 jobs; Federal Minister Gorbach: six post offices in the inner region of the Salzkammergut closed, others are in conversation; Federal Minister Böhmdorfer: The Bad Ischl District Court is still under discussion today; Federal Minister Grasser: Gmunden financial office combined with Vöcklabruck; Federal Minister Strasser: Gendarmerieposten-composition. Only you, Federal Minister Pröll, have not yet immortalized yourself, and I hope you will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5799	The next speaker was Mr Schweisgut. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5817	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is striking today – and I am delighted as a tourist speaker – that in the context of many words on the subject of “agriculture” the “tourism” has also been addressed. The Minister has received many posts today: He is the Minister of the Environment, Minister of Life, Minister of Agriculture, and he seems to be a bit more Minister of Tourism. Tourism has been very positive in many speeches and, I believe, has been put at the centre of all parties. As a tourist speaker of my party, let me also address a few words on tourism and, of course, on the subject of budget to you. I think we should find a reference to the budget for budget reasons. The farm holiday is an alternative to rural areas, an alternative to rural populations, and much has happened in recent years. There are about 170 000 beds in rural areas, which is also an enormous economic factor in the area of tourism. About €900 million will be consumed and implemented by the guests at the “Holiday at the Farm” in Austria. Of these, approximately €450 million remain in the farms, with the rural population. This money will save at least 20 000 jobs. So, for tourism too, agriculture is of course an essential economic factor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the agricultural budget – and I believe that this is also very important – this “Holiday at the farm” naturally finds resonance and is planned for the funding programme at € 320 000 a year. So not only the economy as a whole, but also agriculture accepts and sees these positive achievements of tourism. Today, 30 percent of farmers' income – these are estimates made by economic experts – comes directly or indirectly from tourism. This also shows once again how important this factor is. A small part of agriculture, which of course also has to do with tourism, but which also makes clear the development of agriculture in Austria, is the wine industry. If the development of the wine industry in Austria is to be seen in recent years, one can speak of an enormous progress in quality, a huge leap in quality, almost a quantum leap in this area; of course, this is also done through promotions. If you look at the wineries in Austria today, if you look more closely at the Burgenland, you can say that only last year at €197 million investment in the wine industry – of which you should also see, were €41 million funding – has been achieved enormously. So here, too, an impulse into the quality tourism of the future. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] Tourism, and with it I come to the end of my remarks, lives with and from the farmers – and vice versa, the farmers also live with and from tourism. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5884	The next speaker was Mr Faul. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5903	Madam President. Federal Minister! Only one word on this statement “Raunzer-Ecke”. Those who still have in mind Mr Grillitsch's speech this morning might think that Fritz Grillitschwill is crying out a “complaint and pity month” for farmers, an Austrian “Jammerdan”, I thought. To put this right: The knitting pattern of Fritz Grillitschal Farmers' Association is always the same: the punching into a class struggle, so that against all the arguments that come from us, from the opposition, his team closes behind him. - On the one hand. Mr Auer spoke today about the economy. I have to thank him, and this, Mr Minister, is just an example from the economy of my region: In the VA-Tech Hydro we will lose around a thousand jobs due to this failed industrial policy of the Austrian Federal Government. And, Mr. Federal Minister, I've looked at this: 300 auxiliary farmers will be affected. On the one hand, they have it easier, because they can return to their farmers – as workers have much harder to find a job in our region – but on the other hand, I know that if I look at your farm premiums for the 250 000 farms in total, the additional workers in my region will not be among the 80 privileged ones who will receive over €70 000, but they will be among the remaining 250 000 who will receive between € 2 000 and € 9 000 per year. That means they're going to be It is very, very difficult to get on with their small farms. – So much for the economics. Secondly, Mr Auer: What you have told us today about these promotions, about the development of rural areas, that is all right and beautiful. I would also like to thank you if you say that the rural area is making its economic contribution – demonstrated by all the achievements that farmers have achieved in the rural region – but we are opposed to the fact that in your programmes and in your resolution for the years 2007 to 2013, you are excluding the economy! That is, everything that is done there can only come from farming companies. I wonder why Mr Mitterlehner as a representative of the economy is no longer opposed.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5948	It is Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e5966	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Although I have spoken twice today in this debate – once on the subject of the environment and once on agriculture – it is appropriate, after a number of speeches, to make further clarifications on the issues you have raised. First: Distribution between large and small. I can't leave this in the room like that. In the course of the reform of the common agricultural policy, we have chosen exactly that model with the single payment model, which does not lead to a redistribution. Why? – Because in the past we have already managed in the past very precise and clear in the Austrian agricultural policy disadvantages, mountain and favours, large and small, because we have already provided all the appropriate resources for their disadvantages in the past. Therefore, it is only logical to take these historic grants into the future as well when choosing the model, and this is what we have done with the implementation of the reform. On the question of women's projects/men's projects. – I said something else in the Committee, namely: There are no specific women's projects, because there are no specific men's projects in rural areas, but we do and I make rural policy so that all those who bring in projects – whether in common, alone or in any case – come to their corresponding compensation. This is just and fair policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gaßner would like to mention projects which are being taught outside agriculture. I have fixed the number by about 3%, and it is clear that in the new rural development in Europe, we will discuss together how to take more account of inclusive projects. What do I mean by that? – The fact that in the rural regions there are projects by carriers, which can of course be used away from the nuclear tasks: Tourism, the economy, linked to agriculture, however, sustainable energy projects and so on. In the future, there will be a focus on rural development in this area, which is now essentially set out in Article 33. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of achieving climate change objectives; Mrs Mandak from the Greens asked this question. – We can or we do not have to reach the climate change target until now! We have an international obligation to achieve this minus 13 percent of the value from 1990 in the years 2008 to 2012. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Go ahead, ladies and gentlemen, that we will realize this ambitious goal in Austria during this period of time! As regards the question of the Federal Forest, the following must be said: Transfer of the pension fund, provision from the Federal Forests and transfer of pension benefits to the public – there must be They also say, ladies and gentlemen, that we have also converted deposits into basic assets. On the other hand, I quote a very unexpected partner on the question of how this is seen from the outside. The ÖGB has delivered an opinion on the transfer of pension provision, and I quote: The fact that the Federal Pension Office is responsible for all relevant questions and that the entire processing of supplementary pensions for pensioners of ÖBf AG is in the future responsible for the Federal Pensions Office and therefore a single body is also responsible in the future is expressly positive. – So much to the concerns you have expressed in this important policy position for the Austrian Federal Forest.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6033	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6051	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today the budget for agriculture and the environment, and we are discussing these chapters under one, because under Federal Minister Pröll the interests of agriculture and the environment are best coordinated, coordinated and decided and because under Federal Minister Pröll the balance of interests with the other areas, with economy, with health, works well. On the basis of three examples, I would like to point out the following. First: Genetics law – coordination between health and agriculture. Secondly, Waste management – economic and environmental coordination. Or thirdly, an example of the energy sector: the eco electricity law – coordination between economy and agriculture. All in all, a round package. Agricultural and environmental policies are also economic policies, and I thank Federal Minister Pröll for his interconnectedness and positive effects over and above the agricultural sector. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have set a number of priorities for the future, for example in the field of the addition of biofuels, in the area of old load renovation, where we have to fix mistakes from the past, but also in the settlement water industry, where it is a matter of protecting the most precious property that Austria has at all, namely our water, and of using the water resource specifically. Today, climate policy has also been addressed more often in the field of climate change. It is very important that we do our homework in the future. This also shows the budget figures in the environmental field: 90 percent of the funds go in the field of climate strategy. It is about promoting energy efficiency, alternative energies, energy saving and renewable energy. It is about the climate strategy that we are forcing domestic energy sources. It is about reducing pollutants, and it is also about leaving value added in Austria. We are currently experiencing, especially with regard to agriculture and the environment, a so-called biogas boom. In Austria, many biogas plants are being built, but many decentralised micro-networks are also being built in the biomass sector, and this will continue to be forced in the future, because it helps the environment and forest management on the one hand. Active environmental policy is a network between the environment and agriculture. It's about securing quality of life. It is about saving and protecting resources. But it is also about – in which we all agree, and I am grateful for that – that we together create more awareness of the environment. One should not only make things bad, but also move something for the environment by example and by thinking ahead and acting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6112	Mr Reheis has been mentioned as the next speaker. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6131	Madam President. Expensive member of the Federal Government! I would also like to say something positive in advance, because it should not always be said that the opposition always has to report negative things: If you drive through our country – tourism has already been addressed – you have to say positively that agriculture is doing very, very much in the field of environmental protection, agriculture, in general, also in the production of agricultural products, and I would like to thank the farmers and agricultural workers for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But this only shows that Austria is a very positive country, a country with hard-working workers, and I am opposed to playing out workers and agriculture against each other! [[Bravorufe and general accompaniment.]] I would also, of course, like to say at this point that performance should be properly honoured, and that is why I say that the funds made available by this Federal Government to agriculture are also justified, but of course they must be distributed accordingly. As the Federal Minister said earlier that the disadvantages had been eliminated, I already have to ask the question: So why is it that the income from agriculture and forestry for mining plants at €17 171 per farm was 7 per cent lower than in the previous year? As a result, the income ratio from federal resources between mining plants and non-mountain farms has changed again, and the gap for mining plants has increased again. Why is this, especially when the Federal Minister says that the disadvantages have been eliminated? – Ladies and gentlemen, that can’t be it! As mayor of a community of Tyrol, I am very proud – as I said in the introduction – that the miners, even the farmers at all, do a lot for our landscape and for our food, but I also say that the budget resources have to be distributed properly. I'm asking: Why are the funding so unfairly distributed, Minister of State? They have said that the disadvantages have been felt. Tig. The fact is, they have not been eliminated, because how else would it be possible for the miners to have 7 percent less?- Oh, my God! There is something to do, and I ask you to do something more about this. I want to close with Molière and say: We are not only responsible for what we do, but also for what we do not! – We should do more and no less. I would ask you to act here in the interest of the miners.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6191	As the next speaker, I shall give the floor to Mr Radler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6209	Madam President. Federal Minister! There is a set or winged word in politics, which means: “The comparison makes us sure!” – If we follow today’s debate, the comparison makes us sure, that is, the comparison of the statements made by the Federal Minister with the statements, the almost plausible – I would say – statements made by Mr Kummerer, Mr Reheis and so on, which have spoken about agriculture. There's only one answer to that: The only true representation of interests – and I say this as a representative of the ÖAAB – is the Austrian Farmers' Federation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] I would like to recall the seventies, eighty-eighties, when the then president of the SPÖ and the Partyobmann said: We need a church beater for the farmers! – It has never become something out of it. If you look at the Federal Ministers of the SPÖ for Agriculture, there is only one answer, namely the answer of our Federal Chancellor: A treat for the farmers! That's the right answer. A matter today, a very essential of course, is, among other things, environmental protection. If we look at the recent report by Wim Koks on the Lisbon Strategy and here at Austria's ranking within the 25 countries of Europe, we have to note that we are very good at our environmental policy in Austria. A number of topics have already been addressed, from biomass production, from wind turbines et cetera to efforts that are now in the foreground of environmental policy, namely the addition of bio-sprite to fuel, especially what is discussed and also carried out in these days: retrofitting with particulate filters. This brings us a very big step forward in Austrian environmental policy. As a Lower Austrian, I am of course especially proud to be able to say: Lower Austria has a population growth of plus 5 percent, Lower Austria has an economic growth of plus 1.5 percent – and yet a stable environmental burden in the form of CO2 emissions! That is because we have put in place numerous measures in Lower Austria. 161 Climate Alliance Communities – that means 60 percent of the Lower Austrians live in Klimabundnisgemeinde! Lower Austria has thus given an answer to environmental issues in Europe, which can rightly be said, and can also rightly be proud that it is the climate alliance number 1 in Europe. That, I mean, is the best proof of a successful environmental policy. Finally, perhaps a few words on those measures that are particularly necessary in the area of environmental strategy. This is what I say as a citizen. master – to force traffic-saving communities. I am proud that my community is a transport-saving community, that at the beginning of next year Niederösterreich will also provide 2,000 bicycles for the two-wheel Freerad action to enable changeover and raise environmental awareness. Let me conclude by saying: A successful environmental policy bears the handwriting of this successful federal government of Schwarz-Blau! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6273	The next speaker was Mrs Bayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6291	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The big melt has begun. Currently, the industrialized countries are conducting an uncontrolled global experiment to study the effects of climate change. The fields of experiment are the Arctic, the developing countries, but ultimately the whole world. There are calculations and climate models that predict that in the year 2070 in the Arctic there will be no snow and no ice anymore, which has many effects, for example, that the sunlight will no longer be reflected and that this will result in a further warming. The rise in the sea level is due to the loss of habitats, not only of polar bears, but also of humans, because the cities of people will be under water, countries will be uncontrollable, because agriculture will become impossible, and eventually it will become impossible to survive at some point in time. In the long term, all of us are concerned, not just some people anywhere in any developing country or elsewhere, no, we too are concerned about this very intensively with our children and our grandchildren. There is a study by John Schellnhofer, among other things also published at BBC Online, which says that about 0.3 percent of the global gross social product would be necessary to control climate warming. I think that 0.3 percent of the global gross social product would be quite well-designed, for example, in improved energy efficiency of buildings, in improving the efficiency of motor vehicles, in the development of public transport, or by replacing coal, gas and oil with environmentally friendly sources of energy, or by preventing large, interconnected forest areas from being wooded around the world. To secure survival on earth must be worth 0.3 percent of the global gross social product, I think, especially when one considers that over the past 20 years the costs of climate change have increased by 17 times. We know, of course, also in Austria the consequences of climate change in the form of droughts, heat and floods, and I think it would be much more intelligent to invest in the money instead of repairing the consequences of these disasters in order to slow down climate change and to finance, pay, really radical measures to reduce CO2 emissions. However, I miss these really vital resources in this budget, which is phasedly harmful to climate.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6331	As the next speaker, I shall give the floor to Mr Keussnigg. Mr President, you too have a three-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6350	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! Today, in this debate, the concept of “class struggle” is constantly being pursued by the series, the playing out of farmers against farmers or workers against farmers. I'd like to say: For me personally, the term “class struggle ” is exaggerated, I don’t really see it. But what I already see – and then I turn to the colleagues from SPÖ – is that nothing will happen in this debate. That's much more serious. There is no competition for ideas. This is a pity, because it would actually live on politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have been here in Parliament for five years – first I was in the Federal Council, and now I am in the National Council – and I have not experienced any change in the style in these five years. It's a little critical, that's okay, that's part of it, but it's always the same game: Large versus small, which is also very relative in Austria, and it is always about the “evil” agricultural factories and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The word hasn't liked it yet! The first to take the word into your mouth is you!]] The question of large enterprises is at all a staircase of history. Let me give you an example, Mr Pirklhuber: Many years ago, the southern countries of Europe had farms with a cow or two cows. If you look at the statistics of milk suppliers in Europe today, it is noted that Austria has the smallest-structured dairy industry in Europe as a whole. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Yes!]] Portugal, Greece, Italy, all of them are galloped out, and we have received a small-scale, farm-oriented, environmentally-oriented agriculture. This is really the unfortunate one, but you have to take note of that. On the matter itself: What we really need, these are marketable, powerful, rational companies that have stocks. This is the right mix of politics, but this mix has not actually been criticized. I am referring to investment promotions, direct payments. A word on the question of miners – Gerhard Reheis has said this kindly. Without a reasonable and good funding policy, there would be no miners in Austria, there would be no miners in Tyrol. But after we have flourishing mountain farms, I think that is a compliment to our policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is a question of financing education and advice, of ensuring quality, of ensuring research in the agricultural field. This whole mix is, I think, reasonably covered in this budget. Finally, I would like to mention more comprehensive measures to ensure agriculture, because they are just so up-to-date. In this House, we currently have the eco electricity law, the creation of a value-added line, we have here the tax reform, equal opportunities for means of operation, we have just a government template on mineral oil tax law, we have re-enactment of biodiesel and so on. We have a comprehensive policy here. I'd like to say: We have the ideas for a good agricultural policy, and because we have it, we are well placed in the European comparison. Strong domestic agriculture has been an advantage for the Austrian population and consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6414	I call Mr Dobnigg. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6433	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the latest, since the U.S. pentagon in its global eye-catching study, it has found that climate change is at risk of a greater global risk than terrorism to be strongly condemned and combatted, we should be aware of the political priorities to be set here. I ask the question: What does our Federal Government do? – It sets the priorities exactly the other way round, so I think it is wrong. ÖVP and FPÖ start up militaryly, buy the most expensive combat bombs as if they wanted to play mini-superpower – and neglect climate protection. This will waste you the financial scope of the next years and will also destroy the security of the coming generations, because against the increasing storms and weather extremes you can fly with your combat bombs, fighter pilots and so many attacks, it will not benefit anyone. Minister for the Environment, I'll take you. Your efforts to achieve an improved environmental policy are yes, but your fellow governmentman Bartenstein, Grasser, Platter and Federal Chancellor Schüssel unfortunately keep you on a very short line. These gentlemen pursue all possible objectives, but unfortunately no environmental objectives. Instead of this brake and environmental blockade policy, Austria would have to launch investment programmes in state-of-the-art technologies, further research and improvement of alternative energy generation techniques, and – also this would be important – increasingly in systematic thermal insulation of buildings. In addition to the benefits of the environment, the reduction of greenhouse gases and the energy saving effect, such initiatives would also benefit Austria's economic location and employment. But all of this does not seem to interest this federal government, and I find that sad. In particular, the wrong and missing focus on climate policy is reflected in the budgeting of environmental support. Instead of promoting projects abroad, it would be much more useful to make greater use of resources for domestic climate policies. This would also directly benefit the domestic labour market, the domestic economy and, above all, the own population. It also bothers me that no action will be taken to meet the objectives of the NEC Directive, i.e. to reduce national emission ceilings, in particular to reduce the emissions of nitrogen oxides and volatile hydrocarbons, and no budgetary means are provided. The €30 million increase mentioned by the government to achieve the Kyoto target is not understandable to me. Expenditure from a wide range of areas is aggregated here, so that there is no longer any such transparency. Due to many shortcomings and lack of solutions to environmental problems, we cannot give our consent to the “environment” budget chapter.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6479	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies' friend. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6497	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture and forestry continue to have a very high priority in the Austrian population and in this Federal Government. It is not often enough to stress the achievements of this professional group, from food production, landscape conservation to job security in the supranational and downstream areas. We want our agriculture to remain in the existing modern agricultural form so that future generations can find a land worth living. It is therefore justified that the budget for the Ministry of Life for the coming year estimated € 58 million more than in 2004. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian farmers face major challenges with global liberalisation. We must ensure that the right framework conditions for agriculture are created in our country. It is also no secret that the number of farmers has been falling for years. This is at the expense of the entire society. What we need is support programmes such as public funds, targeted investment, of course also for farms taken over by young farmers – so that this can happen in the future, these programmes are particularly important. I would like to stress that we continue to achieve agricultural income mainly in the difficult international market. However, the compensatory payments are necessary for our farmers. Agricultural incomes are falling steadily, and I am therefore pleased that agricultural support in the 2005 budget will be increased by 10 million, thus securing the 3-billion-€ package for this legislative period. The 3-billion-€ package is particularly important for farmers' incomes because it also implements the co-financing of EU funding programmes. The Austrian government is doing something for our farmers. It must also be stressed, however, that from 2005 onwards, the EU's milk premium will be effective for our dairy farmers. The milk price is particularly affected by international price pressure. I reject the fact that milk and meat products from supermarket chains are used as curly products. In recent years there have been many changes for farmers. The work of a farmer and, of course, the framework conditions have become quite different, but we already recognised 20 years ago that sustainability is a very important aspect, and have been aware of environmental policy, biomass energy and various other areas. Today's situation shows us that we were right 20 years ago, because the energy sector has become a very important and essential area for us. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There would, of course, be many more positive aspects of this agricultural and environmental budget, but unfortunately God's speaking time is not enough. I would like to take this out particularly and thank the Federal Minister Pröll, who has presented a demanding budget to which we would like to give our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6556	Next item is the report by Mr Oberhaidinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6574	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Unfortunately, the Austrian climate policy is going back and not forward. We are further away than ever – that is to be read – from the fulfilment of the Kyoto obligation. You are right, Minister of State, if you say: It's billed for 2012!, but now it's not 13 percent that we need to reduce, but 22 percent. That means we are clearly moving away from the goal. With the €60 million provided for in this approach to climate protection, this area is clearly subdivided in our opinion. Federal Minister! There is still no new climate change plan negotiated and financed with the federal states. For years I have been asking you and asking you to finally present us with a signed article 15a agreement, in which an old house rehabilitation programme would also be foreseen. Unfortunately, there is still no such agreement. Although the Wifo speaks of 25 000 annual jobs which could be created and secured only in the area of thermal insulation, nothing happens. In view of the highest unemployment rate we have in our country, this is a long-term overdue measure; I am not talking about the environmental and energy objectives in this regard. Environmental funding is increasingly being used to support agriculture, as the budget shows. The industrial and agglomeration centres, Mr. Federal Minister, are deprived of the money, although we have the biggest environmental problems in these areas. Federal Minister! This budget confirms to me once again that you are not acting as an environmental minister, not as a minister of life, but only as a minister of agriculture, but also as regards this policy, as we have heard this morning, you are not undisputed. Therefore, we cannot accept this chapter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6609	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6627	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Austrian environmental policy is a single success story and it will remain. The essential basis for this is, of course, the necessary budget, and I can give you some serious information on the budget. [[Abg. Oils: You're welcome!]] The 2005 Federal Estimate for the “Environment” chapter is just under €525 million and also has revenues of about €300 million, which mainly come from the urban water economy. From the environmental point of view, climate protection and the implementation of the Kyoto objective are an important challenge. With the donation of about €60 million, the corresponding financial resources are also made available. This may lead to an extension of climate change-related measures. Many activities, in particular those under the motto “climate:active”, which focus on transport, such as bio-spritting, will be measures that will further enable efficient environmental policy. In the area of disaster protection, appropriate budgeting for preventive measures will also be ensured. The disaster fund will again be available at € 123 million in 2005 and 2006 and will be allocated. The commitment framework for measures in the area of settlement management was set at € 218 million for the two years. I am also very pleased with the ever-increasing funding for environmental promotion, which has increased from 47.3 million over 58.2 million in 2004 to 69 million euros now. Here you are on the right path. The importance of environmental promotion is reflected in the high participation of our farms. In this context, it should be noted that Austria has the highest share of its rural development measures across the EU. We are therefore a pioneer in the implementation of sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! Based on the facts and the budget data, one can understand the active and sustainable environmental policy of the Federal Government. We will continue to strengthen our excellent position in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6664	Mr Puswald spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure: first, the part to be corrected, then the correction, and all this in 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6685	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr. Freund told us earlier that, “we” he said, ÖVP had started environmental policy 20 years ago. This statement of facts is wrong. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] 20 years ago, the ÖVP did not rule. It is true that the first Ministry of the Environment was set up by the SPÖ, by Federal Chancellor Bruno Kreisky.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6718	Ladies and gentlemen, I say: That was not an actual correction! [[Complementary with the ÖVP and the Freeman and calls:Genau]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This was the case for the second time in the Puswald!]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Madam President, he did not understand!]] The next item is the report by Mr Steier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6774	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleagues have already given a very detailed opinion on the environmental policy of this Federal Government, and they have also mentioned the fact that Austria is no longer an environmental model country and we are only moving in the EU middle with our environmental indicators. Ladies and gentlemen! An area in which we believe that we still have far too few activities is noise protection – and with this evaluation we are obviously in good company with the affected population. A few days ago, Environment Minister Pröll presented a survey whose key statement – in short – reads: Cities want better air and less noise! – No, I can only say who doesn’t want that! Through noise – and especially by traffic noise – around 28 percent of Austrians feel bothered. It should not be mentioned that the corresponding investigation is already over six years old and therefore appropriate data on noise exposure should be considered insufficient. – As traffic has increased significantly in recent years, the noise of the population has increased. Austria has been in default for some time, since mid-July 2004, with the transposition of the EU Lams Directive into national law. Now Mr. Federal Minister Pröll has announced that the draft Federal Environmental Protection Act will soon be to be expected. In your reply to a corresponding parliamentary request, information has been provided on strategic noise maps, action plans and various deadlines and costs. However, what is less, no answers or other answers are very important, such as: Will there be binding noise limit values, which can therefore be applied to noise victims – or only indicative ones again? Further: Will there be comprehensive surveys of the noise situation in Austria? What is – third – planned to eliminate the division of competence between the federal government and countries in the field of noise protection? The implementation of the EU Environment Directive would be a real opportunity for the Austrian noise protection policy to miss a turbo shift towards efficiency and modernity. For example, a uniform noise protection competence of the Federal Government or the reduction of the Austrian noise limit values should be sought at least at WHO recommendation: 45 decibels by night and 55 decibels by day. However, this would require, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not get afraid of your own courage. What one hears in rumor about the draft federal environmental noise protection law is little encouraging – and it fears that this law will also be part of a long series of those in which the government is not characterized by innovative and courageous solutions. I hope there will be another rethinking so that this century chance will not be granted to combat noise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6828	The next item is the speech by Mr Kainz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6846	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The budget chapters of the environment and agriculture are not only negotiated under one, but they actually fit together perfectly, and that is why they are directly combined, because, first, our farmers, whom we can be very proud of in Austria, have managed to do – and they are also an example – that they are talking about in a globalized period of time in many countries of agricultural companies, in Austria the guarantee that our consumers are excellent, high-quality and high-quality. This is because, in Austria, in cooperation with the countries and the municipalities, an excellent environmental policy is being pursued by the federal government. Federal Minister Pröll is the guarantee in both areas that good environmental as well as good agricultural policy is being pursued. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the environmental field, Austria is promoting ambitious environmental policy both at national and international level. In the area of environment, there is also an increase in the budget approach, with around €524 million in 2005 and €559 million in 2006 for environmental policy. This is a prerequisite for a committed environmental policy, with Mr Pröll, the ÖVP and the Federal Government as a guarantee. From the environmental point of view – which has already been addressed several times today – climate protection is undoubtedly a special challenge, a particular objective. I am glad and proud that the financial structure for this climate strategy will be improved in the next few years and increased by €30 million each. The fact that the climate strategy is an important area has already been addressed here. The example of Lower Austria shows that countries can also contribute a great deal to achieving this climate strategy, if I only think that there are 232 climate alliance communities alone in Lower Austria, with a total of 925,000 inhabitants, with 60 percent of the national population in the end. Environmental policy is also a sign that all this is only done in the interaction between the federal, state and local authorities as well as the population. It is about the commitment to sustainable ecological and future-oriented development, and this federal government is the guarantee for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I also believe that the communities can contribute a lot, and also my community, namely the municipality of Pfaffstätten, is a climate alliance municipality. In this context, I should just like to point out the many possibilities for promoting renewable energy sources, as well as environmental advice on the ground, in direct contact with citizens and in the field of transport savings policy – “Action Two-Rad FreiRad” – and much more. The present budget for the environment and agriculture can continue the successful path to sustainable environmental policy. – Thank you and ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6907	Next item is the report by Mrs Pepper. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e6925	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pröll, I do not agree with the good intention to do something for environmental protection, but it must be noted that this Federal Government has “created” that Austria is no longer a pioneer in the field of environmental protection, but has long since plunged into the middle of the EU-wide environmental indicators. – In several dozen cases, Austria has been betrayed by the European Commission for not implementing EU environmental legislation or has been charged before the EU Court of Justice. The fact that things are different, Mr Federal Minister, shows my federal state of Burgenland, namely in terms of renewable energy sources, wind energy and biomass energy. – The BEWAG and its subsidiary Austrian Windpower – – that belongs to Austria, but the BEWAG is a pioneer in environmental policy – start a wind energy initiative... – I don't have time, noble wedding, I have to finish! [[Abg. Bucher: Does that not belong to Austria?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: And where does the money come from? From the financial balance! And who's blocking that?]] [[Further calls to the liberals as well as to the abg. Lentic.]] [[in the direction of the Abg. Lentic]] [[New calls to the liberals.]] € 280 million was invested; 820 million kilowatt hours can cover the consumption of two thirds of all Burgundy electricity customers. Through these planned projects, ladies and gentlemen, 54 million litres of oil can be saved per year – another step towards achieving the Kyoto target, because the energy achieved by wind expansion corresponds to a CO2 reduction of 500 000 tonnes per year and a savings of 545 million litres of oil per year. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, how important it is to support this form of energy generation in the future. We from SPÖ want a further expansion of renewable energy sources – and this energy must also be manageable, for all people, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, I would like to address another issue that is very important to me. We all know – at least those who are interested – that for many people with low incomes or a minimum pension the high heating costs are enormous. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, from the Government parties: Why are you so opposed to the proposal that people who are already heavily burdened already receive 40 € per month of heating aid in the winter months? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In our eyes this installation of heating costs represents a basic need! We must not allow people to freeze for financial reasons during the cold season! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Landeskompetenz!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] So far, you have rejected this request. I would therefore like to ask you again: Give yourself a back and think You're this thing! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Is the Niessl so bad that we have to do it for him?]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] One sentence to the conclusion, Minister of State: They must not allow environmental funding to be abused to double agricultural support, because this will eliminate industrial and agglomerations, although there are the biggest environmental problems there! I'm trying to try and think about this! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7056	The next item is the speech by Mr Principality. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7077	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Pfeffer, just one sentence on the heating allowance: The “red” Vienna pays 50 € for the winter, the “black” Upper Austria: 150 €! That is the “little” difference! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call:In Upper Austria it is colder]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: That's not how great it is with the heating grant!]] In the case of a few budget chapters, the balances are as high as in the case of public agricultural expenditure. The agriculture or the agricultural budget, unfortunately, is still a thorn in the eye to many who are sitting in the hall. “Subvention for the big farmers” and “Injustices” are mentioned here again and again. – But so far no one has defined from the opposition, which is a small or large business. Define that specifically – and then we can discuss further! The fact that these accusations are not true is that everyone knows here; however, it seems quite popular to look at agriculture or farmers with a particularly critical eye. Farmers, ladies and gentlemen, are neither excavators nor alms! Reimbursement payments for farmed family farms are primarily for the promotion and development of rural areas! The compensatory payments not only support rural families, but also preserve the rural area as an economic and recreational area in exposed areas. We all agree on this, as I mean: Nature's habitat should also continue to be preserved in its entirety as well as available for recreation and tourism. We want those areas that are difficult to access to too. Ladies and gentlemen! In Sunday's speeches it is a pleasure to talk about the importance of the rural area, but if it becomes concrete and one should confess to decisions which are also felt by those concerned between thumbs and index fingers, you leave, ladies and gentlemen, of the left half of the empire in this House, very often the courage and the willingness to follow your words as well. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Aha, is this one now?]] [[the speaker makes a corresponding movement]] I often have the impression that some of the ladies and gentlemen here are obviously not aware of what it is really all about – and it is only what it is about, or what mistakes were made, when it is too late for the affected population group. For example, the effects of migration in the fifties and in the 1960s can be seen, whether in the forest or in the mill district. The agricultural budget we are discussing now contains the necessary support and compensation for rural development to ensure that it is safeguarded. – The debate on compensatory payments for farms is not likely to end, and I can only say that: Indeed, the income situation of the rural families is not as rosy as one could speak of “necessary expenditure”. Ladies and gentlemen! We from the Austrian People's Party, we from the Federal Farmers' Federation will continue to work hard to ensure that farms can continue to exist.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7156	Next item is the report by Mr Heinzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7174	Madam President. Minister! High house! The budget in the environmental field has always been very disillusioning since the first launch of the blue-black coalition government, and from my point of view has never surprised positively. A good example of the partial failure in environmental policy is also the action taken by the Minister for the Environment in the area of waste law and beverage packaging. There is also a constant withdrawal from responsibility for the growing wastebergs, in particular packaging waste. Instead of promoting, ladies and gentlemen, the functioning systems of material recycling of packaging, as they existed before 2000, the surplus packaging is literally turned off by the financial cock. The latest implementation report on these voluntary agreements is disillusioning: For example, the filling rate in multi-way packaging fell from 69 percent in 1997 to 48 percent in 2003. Retail trade is currently determining, precisely because of its market power, both the range of drinks and prices. In my view, voluntary agreements, which have been reached here, constitute only a free letter for the retail trade, to stick to the previous strategy of the production of waste. The voluntary agreement of the economy presented at the beginning of October again contains only global objectives, but does not make the retail trade mandatory. Mr Minister, you have quoted this issue from reports by the EU Commission today, but it is also to be read in this report that voluntary self-obligation makes sense only if sanctions mechanisms are linked to it in the event of non-compliance. For information only: Every Austrian household currently spends about €180 a year directly on garbage charges and also has to pay €60 for the financing of the packaging waste collection in the business. Due to the increasing volume of disposable packaging for the medium term, the cost of waste is expected to increase from 10 to 15 percent for consumers in Austria. Dear Minister for the Environment, Minister for the Environment, Mr Pröll: I ask you to finally introduce mandatory targets regarding the multi-way quota for beverage packaging! Everything else has proved to be a shot in the oven, literally.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7221	Next speaker: Mrs Machne. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7239	Madam President. High house! Mr. Federal Minister! The topic of the environment and air was and is always a big concern to me – for the very reason, because we had problems with the inversion weather in the Lienz valley. We have tried to put some emphasis on building, among other things, a biomass plant, which supplies biomass to 80 percent of the population of Lienz; by saving 6 million litres of oil annually, which has been replaced by wood – and thus, of course, the economic power remains in our region. In Lienz, we have also invested a great deal in the development of cycle road networks, but traffic has, as it were, removed some of these measures. This is no wonder, however, since 1.7 million diesel cars are already on the road in Austria; in 1990 these were only around 400 000 cars. That is why I am particularly pleased with the support measures of diesel particle filters, which is a very important measure for our valley floor. Two out of three newly purchased cars in Austria are diesel vehicles. So far, low fuel consumption has been both an economic and an ecological argument for switching to such cars. As of 2005, we will have a bonus malus system, so that those who also think environmentally consciously when buying cars will be rewarded. It was also mentioned here that there may not be as many diesel vehicles with particle filters as consumers demand. – But I do not think so, because I think the economy is very flexible and will very likely provide such vehicles to a sufficient extent. Environmental, climate and health protection are key elements for the Austrian Federal Government. Much has already been done in environmental policy by this Federal Government, and this is also seen by the annual growth of resources for climate protection: 30 million € more next year. I believe that we are leading in Europe as far as environmental policy is concerned. In any case, I can only support these priorities in environmental policy and therefore our Minister Pröll and I am somewhat disappointed that you do not.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7287	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7306	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! The budget has already been illuminated in various areas, and it can be seen that there is a slight increase, but this increase in the environment will not be sufficient in terms of the objectives set, such as climate change protection or the promotion of renewable energy sources. It has also been found – and this is to be understood – that, despite many announcements and good approaches, environmental policy is still in the way back and that we are constantly getting rid of the Kyoto target, and this, as I mean, will also be difficult to achieve. I would like to stress the good will that efforts be made, but in view of the great amount of lobbying that is always taking place between them, and in view of the fact that the objectives will only be implemented half-heartedly, I cannot imagine that this goal will actually be achieved, no matter what scenario one chooses. It should be noted, however, that there are certain areas of environmental policy in Austria, which function very well and have the tangible results. I would particularly like to highlight the development of the urban water industry, which is also an example of renewable energy. Because we managed to move something in a close-up with communities, countries, federations and citizens and achieve a great result. For example, over 15 000 projects with an investment volume of € 10 million and a eligible value of € 3.5 million have been carried out over the last ten years – and this is a time period that gives a lot of information. But also in this In spite of this success story, one can see that one starts to take back the claims a little, and that one is giving fewer and less support. The average funding was 32 percent during the said period, but today it only moves more than 20 percent. This means, of course, that one or the other community is postponing its projects, which in turn means that less regional employment is created, since there is known to be a direct link with public procurement. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to say the following: The value of environmental policy is shown in the quality class of the rivers. While 1968 about 17 percent of the rivers were classed as quality III to IV, today it is not even 3 percent. This means that these investments have paid off – for the environment and for the people who benefit from this environment. We have managed at this time that over 80 percent of our running waters are in an excellent condition, namely in grade I, I to II or II. So you see, if you are fully committed to a policy, you can achieve a lot. The environmental policy that we started in the 1970s with the demand for "seas with drinking water quality" should continue today with renewable energy sources, in order to be able to achieve the same success there through a closure of all forces in ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7357	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Kuntzl. Madam President, you know the Rules of Procedure: first, the part to be corrected, then the correct part, all in two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7394	Don't worry, I'm referring to Mr Prince's speech. In his speech, Mr Prinz claimed that the country of Upper Austria was paying higher heating costs than the country of Vienna. I am of course happy to put this right as an honourable Member in Vienna: In Vienna, a heating grant of €67 will be granted from October to March, plus a one-time grant of €50, which is significantly more than the Upper Austrian grant, where only €150 will be granted.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7428	The next item is the speech by Mr Preineder. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7447	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the day of St. Martin, sharing is very much placed in the foreground. I am very sorry that some colleagues, such as Mr Gradwelt, Mr Gaßner or Mr Pirklhuber, understand this as part of the farmers, namely as part of large and small farms. I would like to hear, as did Mr Prinz, how you define a large business and how you define a small company in order to determine how honestly you mean it. Dear ladies and gentlemen! As we all know, agriculture in our society has essential tasks to do. Their basic task is to produce food, and we can point out that farmers produce sufficient food in a very good quality. This is done with a very high ecological and also animal protection standard. We can be proud of our food. I think it is also important to clarify to consumers in this area the difference between Austrian or domestic food and those imported from abroad and which are not produced in accordance with the standards we have established. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, agriculture also has – and we notice this in these days! – make a significant contribution in the field of energy production. The valid eco electricity law has opened up the possibility of getting into electricity production, and the ongoing discussion will show how it continues. I would like to thank Mr Kai Jan Krainer for having made a confession that the Socialist Group too is available for an expansion in the eco electricity sector. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Social Democrats! New Diction!]] [[Abg. Schools: It doesn't matter what happens to you!]] . The Social Democratic Group. . I thank you for the suggestion, but I am still glad to have you in this area as a partner. It is also necessary to take a foothold in the field of biofuels regulation, and we are also active in production in the field of hacking heating. Climate protection is implemented by reducing CO2. This is what we do with these products, but we do so when Federal Minister Pröll, with an Article 15a agreement, takes the countries in the field of housing development into responsibility and requires ecological principles. We get the environment, the soil and the groundwater and maintain our landscape in such a way that we as a tourist country can take advantage of our opportunities. But the farmers also have a corresponding function as cultural promoters, as carriers of customs, and give our country its identity. All of this is also recognised by society accordingly. There's a study by Professor Bretschneider, who took place on 2 August. November was presented about how our people, how the Austrians see the image of agriculture, the farmers. That's where we get off very well. We are seen as hospitable and modern, as open-minded, as a natural group, as a professional group that works very much, is sympathetic and intelligent and takes on a lot of responsibility in our society. [[Call the SPÖ: The peasants, but not her!]] For this image, I can thank all our farmers who have contributed to seeing us as farmers in this way. I should also like to thank all those who have worked and worked within the interest agency, the Chambers of Agriculture, and, of course, our Federal Government and our Minister for Agriculture. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This survey is a reason to be self-confident and proud of Bauer, and I believe that it is also possible to say that these benefits should also be recognised for farmers in a budgetary manner. A working group with 4 percent income loss, which has lost 2,500 workers from 2002 to 2003, simply needs social solidarity. We farmers do not live alone in rural areas, we need solidarity and partnerships. Without farmers, however, there will be no rural area.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7524	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. You too, Mr Deputies, have taken 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7542	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Today is a very special day for the Carinthian colleagues and us Vorarlberger, because on the 11th. 11. At 11.11 the carnival begins. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Since, as a friend of the carnival, I am also very happy to hear bulging speeches, I must say the following, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: What you heard today was not only empty, but also the entertainment value was missing! In this sense, Mr Klubobmann Cap, I am looking forward to one of your next contributions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Reheis: Even look in the mirror!]] [[Abg. But you are in Parliament! Don't you know where you are?]] If I look at our system of contribution payments to the farmers, I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition, where you want to go with your demands. It will not be possible that each skewer owner holding five goats will receive the same support as a farmer with 50 cows. – That will not be possible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! From this budget, €507 million will be allocated to the ÖPUL – this is the Austrian environmental programme. Together with EU funds and country resources, €1.1 billion is available for this programme for 2005 – a good investment in our environment and for our farmers who maintain and maintain this environment and are worthy of life and love. Fortunately, the foundation of Austrian agriculture, rural family farms, which are sustainable in our country. These establishments must be strengthened. To this end, our Minister Sepp Pröll has agreed a €3 billion package that gives our companies planning security. However, since we are aware that agriculture can only work in a strong rural area, a strong emphasis has been placed on this area – namely, €353 million federal financing share. In other words, for the years 2005 and 2006, more than € 1 billion are available for rural areas. Many regions of Europe suffer from a demigration from rural areas. We strengthen rural areas by not giving its inhabitants the same but comparable living conditions as those of the cities. On your allegations of the right of promotion, the following must be said: The compensation allowances, including the country funds in 2005 and € 300 million in 2006 are available for up to € 309 million. In Vorarlberg, where 98 percent of the agricultural land is in the disadvantaged area and 95 percent is in the mountainous area, hardly a farmer could compete without these funds from the AZ. This money is an important contribution to the preservation of these farms in the mountain areas and thus an important contribution to the preservation of the Vorarlberg mountain valleys also as a habitat. The future-oriented design of the proposal gives farmers the opportunity to develop from the pure farmer to the energy economy and to create a further stand for the rural family farms. A lot of things would be to say, but time does not allow. Therefore, in conclusion and in summary: It's a good budget of an even better minister, a budget for which I thank you and your house very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7616	Next item is the report by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7634	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen at the audience gallery! I believe that the Section on Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry will have a sub-area, which will lead to a rather low burden in the budget, but which will achieve a much greater added value in general, namely the forestry sector, which is, however, also in the field of the environment. The forestry industry, together with the wood industry, is making a positive trade balance with a total of €2.5 million, which is a top value, not only in Austria – we are almost identical with tourism – but also internationally. The Austrian forestry and wood industry is at its fifth place in international terms, that is, we are the fifth largest timber producer in the world. That's really a huge value. I think it is possible to express a great deal of thanks to the forestry and woodland industry, the forest farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is also happening in the conditions we find in Austria in the Alpine region, in the case of clear disadvantages to the large producers, such as in the northern countries of Europe or overseas. It has already been said that a third of the increase is not being used. That's about 10 million feet – a very remarkable amount, which could also provide around 10,000 jobs. In the forestry sector, about 1,000 solid metres are expected for a job, and this would be a great potential for the future of rural areas. It would also be possible to add 10 000 jobs for follow-up production – for the saw industry, paper industry, furniture industry et cetera – that is, it would be possible to create a potential of around 20 000 jobs. What to do? – I think we just need to increase wood consumption. We need to change our consumer behaviour in general, because it really is about the “green gold”, the raw material that grows at our doorstep. For example, it is quite simple to build with wood! A recent example of the future is the EM stadium, which can still be built in Klagenfurt – a large football stadium. There are already many stages in the world that are built with wood: for example, the Olympic Stadium in Rome. We would like to support this – and a resolution has also been tabled – in order to lead the EURO 2008 as a sustainability EM. We would like to work to ensure that this stadium is built in Klagenfurt, for example, with wood. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Other areas have already been cut: heat with wood or sleep in a wooden bed. – For example, the Zirbe is particularly suitable for this purpose. Sleeping in a crib bed means you need less sleep. I know this from personal experience, and it has now also been scientifically proven. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Wood research – the positive effects of the Zirbe have also found out wood researchers – must be driven forward. The ÖVP sets the corresponding accents with this government. I also hope for new priorities in the rural development programme. 20 percent more are available for the next year. The forestry industry should also be involved. I hope that these projects will also be implemented. The forest, however, is not only a raw material supplier, but it is also an ambience, recreation, climate regulator, protection factor et cetera. It is therefore also necessary to pay the over-economic benefits of the forestry industry accordingly. Finally, I should like to say: The forestry industry has been living up to sustainability for centuries. Therefore, you too agree to this sustainability budget. That also deserves the environment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7714	The next item is Mr Zweytick. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7732	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Making something out of the country, beating capital from the country, that is, I believe, an initiative in the interest of all the people living in that country – women, men, but also children. This is also the mission to us as elected representatives, and we are trying to implement it with the best of knowledge and conscience and with strength, as well as for our own country, but also for the surrounding country. We do not live alone in Europe, we do not live on an island. We have a standard to defend, but we must, in our own interest, also be able to “can” with our neighbors. In other words: “Fine cost in the cultural park!” – This is how Austria presents itself to God today. That's not self-evident, and that's not so obvious at all. Agriculture's corporate strategy is also location security and employment. The location of our beautiful country Austria will only become an immense factor for the downstream and downstream industry, especially for tourism, through the management of the rural families. The “Green Heart of Europe” brand is future-rich and ultimately an export hit on all world markets. A short example of this, the wine: I just got the Junker there. [[The speaker takes the wine bottle brought to hand.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Advertiser!]] Marketing and strategy: Farmers in this country have also learned to operate marketing for their products with strategy. Today there are over 2 million bottles of Austrian young wine, of which a good share goes abroad, to the neighbouring countries of Europe, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's not a must, it's a specialty: ‘Fine cost in the cultural park Austria” and this is appreciated worldwide. The agricultural budget is a strategic definition of future planning of necessary investments, but also an existing agreement with the State. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, we do not do it alone, we do it with people for people. The Austrian farmers therefore trust the Austrian People's Party and we rely on our rural partners. Solidarity with the people of today ensures the success of tomorrow! More 57 million €, i.e. more safety, safety for our environment, safety for our food, but also safety in socially sound conditions. Investment payments, direct payments are not only support policy, but also far-sighted with sustainability. Our Minister of Life knows what he wants not only because he is also a gourmet, but because he is primarily about Austria, and Austria, ladies and gentlemen, we are all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7787	The next item is the report by Mrs Schiesermair. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[Continued unrest in the hall.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I'd suggest a little more rest in the hall!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7820	Mr. Federal Minister! High house! ==References== In November, the ÖVP club organised a survey on an important topic. Sustainability should be a political task for all of us. I would like to thank Herta Mikesch from the economy and the social sector at Barbara Riener very much. We three were responsible. I would also like to thank all the colleagues who have come, with the ministers, Professor Rademacher, Vice-Cancellor Riegler and all the projectors who have really contributed to making it a success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Sustainability should now be a bridge, bridge from here, from Parliament, to projects, to networks and to rural areas. This House bears great responsibility. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Budget negotiations and budgets: It's pretty much spoken as if you were at a crossroads. And we're on our way. Personalities such as fishers, marteners, Riegler and now Pröll shape the route for agriculture. We all have a backpack with us, and if I put the backpack here, each of you would put in a wish, a concern, a focus. And now it is about: to decide what priorities we are striving for. The sustainability aspect requires setting these priorities in such a way that both the Kyoto destination and the destination are strengthened by rural families in rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am here as a representative of the farmers and I have followed the debate with great interest, including with regard to the promotion of women in rural areas. I believe that these concerns are very important and very serious. I was delighted when I found an amount of €12 million in the budget, €12 million in the field of further training, advice, research, and exactly €12.3 million. One could now call so many areas that are important to us, but I don't have much time. I am convinced that we have gone a bit further with this budget. I would like to thank you very briefly – and this has often happened – for the agricultural chambers, for the officials in the Ministry of Agriculture, for the club here and for the committees: really great work! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Only no one forgets!]] The European map has grown. It is becoming increasingly difficult to find the right route. This government with Federal Minister Pröll always finds the right path, the right direction – respect!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7879	Mr Pirklhuber spoke as the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e7926	Ladies and gentlemen! In order to add a fine supplement to the praises that have been made here in the last few hours, as a organic farmer and an agricultural ecologist, I would like to remember one thing: to thank all consumers for the high confidence they have in Austrian agriculture, for example through the purchase of Austrian food. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: They overestimate themselves!]] I don't think you should forget that if you already vote in praises. [[Congratulations with the Greens, the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] But now, to the point of the matter, there were some questions. [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, it's only now that it's getting serious!]] [[Abg. Grill: That was a joke!]] – I am serious about the agricultural budget, Mr Jakob Auer, regarding a budget which, from our point of view, falls behind what we aim to achieve. And here I would like to appeal to one: They have said that we have a good discussion climate in the Committee on Agriculture. Mr Auer, it would be necessary, however, to have an open and intense parliamentary debate over the next period of the rural development programme. I would ask you to help ensure that an open debate is held together. The competition of ideas that has been discussed is very good, and we have also made our proposals, but you have not yet addressed these good proposals from our point of view. The following to Mr Preineder: The difference between big and small is quite simple: 800 farms in Austria receive the same amount of agricultural support as the 50,000 smallest farms. From this you can see that there is at least a imbalance here and that policy has to be countered here. Large and small are relational terms, no question, even large businesses in Austria are relatively small in the European comparison. I give you the right to do so, but it is about internal justice and the internal balance of interests, Mr Scheuch! This debate cannot and must not be spared. In conclusion, Mr Federal Minister, it is unfortunate to note that you are completely wrong in one point, namely that there is no redistribution. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: The 2 minutes are over!]] This EU agricultural reform, which you are implementing, is a redistribution, because the modulation of funds, i.e. the reduction in large farms and the shift to rural development, is simply a redistribution, and there is also an open limit of € 5 000. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is for the little ones!]] The design of the national model is a distortion of this social component of the EU's agricultural reform. Despite this distortion You have a chance to really take a step further towards social justice. Since you, Federal Minister Pröll, are also Environment Ministers, we would have expected you to make a breakthrough in the bio-agricultural model with this agricultural reform. Unfortunately, you didn't do anything to do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8027	The next speaker was Mr Bucher.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8074	Mr President. Dear members of the government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this was a very exciting agricultural discussion, and with all the differences in views, there is also agreement in many sub-areas. Mr Pirklhuber has just said that he disagrees with the Federal Minister only in one point, namely with regard to the redistribution and discussion of whether there are large or small farmers in Austria. Agricultural policy, environmental policy and tourism policy are very interconnected and very important for maintaining a viable rural area. On this occasion I would like to thank farmers, farmers in Austria, that they have always been a very sincere and good partner for the tourism industry: For the supply-place of products for tourism and gastronomy in our country, which means so much to us and which is a very essential economic factor, thank you very much for this good partnership! Thanks above all also for the management of the rural area, for the maintenance of the cultural landscape, which we regard as important capital for further positive development of the tourism industry in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8111	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does Mr Special Rapporteur wish a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the opinion group VIII of the 2005 Federal Proposal. This includes Chapters 60 and 61 of the Federal Proposal in 650 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group VIII of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, on Parliament's involvement in the ongoing reporting during the programming period for the promotion of rural development for the period 2007 to 2013. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Advisory Group XIII Chapter 17: Health and women
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8181	We are now negotiating the Advisory Group XIII: Health and women. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Mrs Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8205	Mr President. High house! Let me briefly report on this - there has also been an agreement on the financial package for the financial balance this morning - in order to inform you firsthand about the “health” structural package. I will of course also comment on the budget and on your objections in a further speech. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Maybe no one makes any objections?]] I am very pleased that this morning it has succeeded in finally closing the financial compensation package and thus also in ensuring the structural reform package in the health care sector. This package is the second important part of a major health reform. We have already carried out a part of the pharmaceutical reform last year, and we can already reap the fruits of this reform work. In the meantime, we have achieved cost reduction to 3 to 4 percent cost increase – compared to forecast 7 to 9 percent. This means a savings of € 120 million this year. With this financial compensation package and structural reform, we can also for the first time, in the context of financial compensation, fix essential health reform areas, and I do not want to thank all the negotiators of the structural package from the federal states very much for the fact that there has been tough, but very constructive negotiations. They know that health policy is facing major challenges not only in Austria but all over the world: medical progress and demographic development. Both result in enormous cost increases, but should not be questioned. In Austria, we are at a low level of access to the health system, which means that everyone, regardless of income and age, receives the medical benefits he or she needs. And this should continue to be maintained in the future, and with this package it is also possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This structural reform package includes, in addition to the €300 million financial package, cost savings, i.e. cost reductions, a lower increase in forecast costs by €300 million. This is a violation of the promise given by the Federal Government that at least € 1 will be saved for every euro that will be added to the system. For the first time in the history of the Second Republic, we will bring together health care, which is in itself fragmented by the competences – in countries, social insurance, federal government, municipalities – for the first time in a joint planning and control of both areas of the health system, namely the hospital area and the area of the established doctors. We will thus achieve a better serving of clients and patients, a better service. This measure will save the patient time and the system money. I believe that this is an important achievement, which will also be organised in the coming months, in a Federal Health Agency and nine regional health platforms, in the Land Health Fund, where all the important health system participants will also be represented by seat and voice. We will achieve this €300 million in savings or cost reduction through various measures: On the one hand, a change in the LKF point system, which will no longer provide for the prior “punishment” of daily health services, but also for a corresponding financial charge of day-care services, thus achieving a reduction in hospital leave. At the same time, of course, a reduction in hospital beds is also planned. This does not mean, however, that immediately dozens of hospitals need to be closed, but that we will ensure, on a quality-secure basis, that there will be a comprehensive care both in the hospital and in the outpatient and established areas, but that the national health platforms will agree on the most cost-effective and friendly solution for the patient – and thus ultimately the efficiency potentials given in the system will also be used. For the first time, we will also achieve savings, cost reductions in the administration of hospitals or in the remote area. What is behind this term? – In case of costs such as laundry or kitchens, there is a lot of savings. There will be an evaluation of cost savings and ensure that these savings are actually achieved. The essential thing is that this structural package also contains a quality assurance law and will bring a health telematics law and thus also a new era in the implementation and further development of the health card to an electronic health act. This is important because we will achieve a further improved service for the patient. Not everyone will then have to go down all his childhood diseases once again at each hospital, while at the same time saving the long-term cost and giving the individual doctor a better chance to track the health course of a patient. This is a measure which is welcomed by a majority of Austrians. Furthermore, this package includes precautions: €3.5 million for a comprehensive screening of metabolic diseases in infants in order to be able to detect them in good time, and a comprehensive mammography screening, which is particularly important to me as a woman minister, as well as other precautions to which we will also agree with the countries, and a further €2.9 million for the transplant system. In this area, Austria is the leader. This will ensure that we can continue the previous performance in the transplant area. We have more than 1,000 heart transplants, more than 500 lung transplants; many of them live on in high quality of life. We will also make clear within the framework of an “Austrian Structure Plan Health”, which will replace the Austrian Hospital Plan, the ÖKAP, that we have made a paradigm change in health policy. That is why I believe that is important because we attach particular importance to health promotion and prevention. In this sense, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this structural package, the country representatives, the coalition partner. Here, I believe, we have worked very constructively on a comprehensive solution which is an important step in the health reform and which is important for maintaining the high-quality Austrian health system.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8254	Mr Gusenbauer was the first speaker to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8272	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is indeed true that the structural package contains a number of interesting approaches which may lead to the achievement of the objectives set. And in fact, a better cooperation between the hospital sector and the established area is a fundamental condition for the potential for efficiency to be exploited accordingly in the future. However, it should not be hidden that this structural package leaves many questions open – many questions that will still be settled and clarified at national level in the next few months – and that there are, of course, already first concerns as to what the concrete structure will look like at the end. Today, the President of the Medical Chamber has also pointed out that he sees very positive approaches, but of course there is also the risk of centralising the health system and building a new bureaucracy, which is far from the patients and from the different concerns in the different regions. I believe that these objections are important insofar as they should be taken into account when implementing this package. Mrs Bundesminister, you have said that the third-party benefits should be limited, and you have given examples. Unfortunately, your budget for the next year is not necessarily proof of this attitude, because if you increase the staff expenditure in the Ministry's central office by around 23 per cent for the next year, i.e. extending bureaucracy, this is not the very best proof that red tape is to be saved here and the services are to be expanded. That's why I'm saying: There are a number of positive approaches in this structural package. But the danger that this will lead to a centralization far away from the interests of the patients must be countered accordingly. That's what we're waiting for! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second chapter, Mrs Bundesminister, concerns the financing of the Austrian health system: In this context, one has to say what has been the burden of the Austrians alone by their government in recent years and what the loads have looked like. In the field of health care alone, you ordered €120 million in taxes in 2001, 105 million in 2002, 165 million in 2003, 500 million in 2004 and 641 million in 2005; in other words, in recent years: €1.5 billion in additional charges for the insured, only from the title of health care! Now everyone says: Well, the money will have benefited social health insurance. Unfortunately, this is not the case, because at the same time the health insurance companies were increasingly financially starved. I would like to point out that in 2001, you have added €171 million to health insurance, €286 million in 2002, €330 million in 2003, €413 million in 2004 and €621 million in 2005. That is, on the one hand, the insured persons were charged €1.5 billion, on the other hand you have taxed the social insurances with €1.8 billion! Mrs Bundesminister, I see no change in what you have presented so far. The financial situation of social health insurance remains enormously tense, and it therefore raises the question – it will be answered in the next few years! – whether these €305 million, which will be available for new health care resources, will at all be sufficient to finance health care in Austria in the light of the trend that has existed since 2001. Mrs Bundesminister, it will therefore not be enough alone to agree on structural savings – I hope they will work constructively – and, on the other hand, to provide the €305 million if those trends, which have basically persisted in the matter of health financing and its expenditure situation since 2001, continue. I think it should be put out of the question that there is a health care in Austria that is solidly funded and that, regardless of income, everyone is equally accessible. If funding continues to be very scarce, the question for the future is: Will there be further burdens – and who will have to bear them – or will there be further restrictions? Against this background, I also consider the package you have now presented for the €305 million. I do not hide that I consider it reasonable that the recipe fee is not increased to such a dramatic extent that it was originally planned to increase from € 4.35 to €5, would indeed have been a very massive burden, especially in view of the fact that the recipe fee in 2001 was still €3.27. That is to say, it is a first step forward that now this recipe fee increase is only a lesser one than the one that was planned. But if we look at how the loss of revenue is to be financed from the whole, then the matter does not look so dazzling. If you propose, as a replacement measure, that in the future the visual assistance for the majority of the population will no longer be financed by the health insurance companies and that, except for children and individual social weaknesses, especially the increasingly expensive glasses will be paid by all themselves... – Well, otherwise you will not come to the sum of €35 million, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is, if this is to be paid for itself in the future, then it does not mean anything but that a burden, which would have borne a large part of the population with the increase in prescription fees, will now be shifted to a part of the population, but it does not change the fact that it is a continuation of the trend towards self-preservation medicine. We Social Democrats believe that self-preservation medicine is a politically wrong path, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Secondly, As far as the hospital cost is concerned, there is really no change – except that you pass on the hot potato to the individual federal states. There will be little change in the situation concerned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] We must see that the countries have been prompted for years to deliver surpluses for the grass deficit, and that in reality the overall package has been made up to ensure the funding of hospitals. But now you go here and say to the countries: “But if you voluntarily renounce it, you can love it!” under the motto “Get the money somewhere else!” My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This does not change anything about the social policy component of this measure. The Federal Government is only trying to pass on the political responsibility for this measure to the federal states. That's not responsible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, these are measures in the field. I would say that the controversial area of health financing has covered €65 million; €65 million has been the controversial part of health financing. Go Now They come here and say: You continue to make the increase in the health care contribution, you make a slighter recipe fee increase, and you make massive restrictions on the visual remedies. I think there would have been more reasonable and more solid solutions to this money. It would not have been a punishment for the beneficiaries or an undue restriction if one had said that the maximum contribution base would be increased to a reasonable extent so that it could be financed. This would have led to the fact that those who could really afford to make a small contribution and those who could not afford it would have been spared from these measures. Mrs Bundesminister, there is a more socially just way to finance health care. Unfortunately, you did not take this path with this result! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What, therefore, remains as the total sum of this package? – The total sum of the package is: Firstly, there are still doubts about the medical board and many others that structural reform leads to more centralisation and red tape. I hope that this can be avoided by the implementation measures you will put in place. The second thing that remains is the doubt that the €305 million will actually be enough to ensure that health care is at a high level over the next four years. The third thing that remains is: The funding of these €305 million is in order in some areas, but there are still some social-political hardships that would not have been necessary at all, because there is solidarity in financing alternatives. I would say that it makes sense to consult Parliament on these issues in any case. It would be useful to use the budget debate, including this financial package, to correct the social hardships that this package still contains. We will make our contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8370	Mr Rasinger is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8388	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! With today's day it's clear: As a courageous Minister for Reform, our Minister of Health will go into the history of Austrian health policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] With the drug package already mentioned, the precautionary examination presented yesterday, the financial security package for hospitals and health insurance, but above all with the structural package, I think, you can also see yourself internationally. Against the background that runs internationally, this is also worth seeing. Every day we have enormous progress in medicine, and people get older. I'm just showing you three magazines that have been published internationally alone today. [[The speaker keeps three medical journals up to date.]] The doctors have to do this! How else do they want progress to take place only in America, in England and in other countries? I find it an eye-catching today when you say on the one hand: You want to give everything to everyone – that is national consensus! – and on the other hand, one prays down the word “burden”. Despite all the reforms to which we acknowledge ourselves, we must also say that progress is ultimately a cost. And on the day on which this reform will be decided, the next reform will begin, which is system-immanent in health policy. Before I go into detail, I would like to say the following: In Austria we always had a national consensus on health policy, including among SPÖ ministers. I've been a health speaker for a long time to say this: It has passed on consensus, we want a maximum, high quality care, regardless of age and regardless of income. This is a national consensus, which is not broken by the ÖVP and by the FPÖ at all, but continued at a high level, and this should be recognized here. They are called to leave the zigzag course, which has become highly visible both in the greens and in the SPÖ in recent weeks: SPÖ countries for this, casting farmers on the other hand, and so on. [[Abg. Silhavy: colleague Dr. Rasinger, zigzag course is...!]] Please join the national consensus where your federal states have long been. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I just want to get three points out of the package. First: It is very important to improve joint planning. It is an open secret that in Austria an institution of the other institution has added the costs. It was not clear whether the dialysis took place mainly outside or in the hospital. It was always the grievance of one's own finances, one could also say: Sculpture thinking. The current health agencies and regional platforms are to overcome this thinking. Here is to say thank you to the countries, to say thank you to the Federal Government and also to social security, for their willingness to act together. There's nothing to do with going through the country with the hack in Austria. "Together with the pursuit of power" is the motto, and that is the thanks we express to all those involved. The Minister too has often renounced power. Secondly, The point of prevention is extremely important; Karl Schweitzer is a tireless caller in the desert. Remember: 60 percent of Austrians do not make any sporty movement at all! People feed completely wrong, and we have the sad number-one spot of smoking among young people, together with Greenland. There it is very, very important that we finally get away from the World Championship Square in hospital lying and that people don't get sick at all. Yesterday, the Minister presented the new precautionary examination, and I believe that this is an important way forward. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] No human would drive his car until it falls apart. Only with our own health are we particularly negligent. Third point: Thank God – I'm telling you now as a doctor – we're not in bed loss fetishism and hospital fetishism of many health economists, who really think we're milkmaid-like. It would mean: Just theoretically, we could close every third hospital in Austria – only theoretically! This would mean, however, that we have enormous problems, especially in the rural area, such as maintaining emergency care. I know myself internationally, and I have to tell you quite honestly, I don't want to live in today's eastern areas of Germany, where you say quite smiled: There will be no hospital at 90 kilometers. What does that mean? There won't be a hospital? In my opinion, it is a responsible structural policy that we say: Yes, hospital reforms – we want people to be cared for to a greater extent outside – but we do not need a ballast that practically causes the supply to many people who cannot defend themselves. Yes, we confess to the principle of level: first the prevention, then the family doctor, then the specialist, then the ambulance, then the hospital, then the rehabilitation, then the care. That'll be cheap, that's the mega task we're standing before, and nothing else. We don't need ideologies, we don't need a rationalization policy, and we don't need a barrage policy. Please join the national consensus we have always had in Austria and want to continue! Think of England, a socially democratically run country that has been running havoc for years! [[Abg. That was under thatcher!]] They're building a hundred hospitals today, which takes ten years. 1.3 million people are on the waiting list. Eight years they need to build up emergency services. Germany is now on the increase, red-green – listen carefully, Mr. Oellinger, with me you can always learn something new – Germany is increasingly moving on to the fact that large stock companies – yes, listen well, you can learn something – take over large chains in hospital care. [[Abg. Oillinger: Who broke everything up in England?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Oils: I hear!]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: He won't be able to afford a hearing aid!]] I can tell you one thing: Do you know what this is leading to? That you suddenly have good and bad diseases. Shareholder Value knows no ethical responsibility for diseases, but if you have Alzheimer's, are old at the same time, have kidney disease and rheuma, then you are a bad risk to the hospital and you will have problems finding a hospital bed. We did not go this way in Austria, and I am grateful for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is clear that with these packages – with the financing package, the structural package and the other reforms – the government is committed to its responsibility that health is the most important thing we have. We are clearly positioned, we know that we need reforms, but we also know that health care needs money – sparingly, but still. Please follow this path of national consensus – in the interests of the high quality of health care, as well as in the interest of Austrian patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8535	Mr Grünewald has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8554	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Maybe first one, two sentences to my previous speaker. I think it is strange when the opposition is accused of a zigzag course, although until now I have only been able to experience the slalom runner Rasinger. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But what he is right with is the following sentence: The Minister for Foreign Affairs has left out power. - Very well, that's how it looks. I might try to get the speech a little bit. When we started to talk about it, we talked to a woman minister. The talks were open, transparent, exciting. I do not hide that there were a number of goals that I and many others felt to be meaningful and good. What was planned? – One could have talked about it, and the woman minister could have – I say this in the conjunctive contrast to Rasinger – as a courageous minister: whether in history or at least for several weeks in the newspapers. [[Abg. Oils: into the protocol!]] Now I have to be a little careful. She could've gone in. I wish you would. I'm not jealous or jealous. But what happened from planning to implementation? - And now I'm meeting again. There – that's not polemic – the men have taken the reins in their hands and somewhere – rarely, but all the more annoyed – in the politics of the powerful, there is already such a kind of Caesar's whim, to know everything better, to want to do everything better and to bite in it. What happened? – These health policy objectives, which all experts – I would say – have agreed and agreed on worldwide, if they were concerned with Austria, have fallen halfway, turned under the carpet and turned into relatively poor compromises. What were the objectives and what was the criticism of the experts? – The health system in Austria has been analysed with its problems of a competence jungle in the area of financing, responsibility and responsibilities. It has come so far that demand surveys have not led to a uniform national service plan for the patients, contributions to the cash offices were far from fair harmonisation, the patient rights were contractually secured in nine-fold formulation with the federal states, we had ten hospital laws. This is not a reasonable federalism in a republic with eight million people, but counterproductive. The objectives were therefore real: a single national demand collection, performance planning, quality assurance and harmonisation of contributions. Then – what Schüssel calls good, long-time proven Usus – came the financial settlement negotiations. There were mostly men in the game, and then there was the battle of the powerful against the other powerful. And what's left behind? – Instead of strengthening the federal competences, a lot has been sacrificed to the countries in exchange. I already know that the money needs, I know that they have to be treated fairly, the question is at what price. The only thing that has been fixed is new burdens, more money from the insured and the contributors into a system of which it is not even clear how it will be made binding in the future. Because this is part of the plans of smoke-callat, but they have not been written down in binding terms and are probably not so easy to implement. I'm just saying one example: There has been a health care plan in Austria, which has been negotiated and signed with the federal states. I once drove from Vienna by train to Tyrol and spoke to a competent court council about the Tyrol Hospital Plan, and he literally told me – I don't say it in dialect – that: We're not stupid to put it into practice. Dedicated expensive cots into cheap others, we only pay for them. That's what it looked like, and I'm afraid that'll continue to look forward to, because, according to my experience – and your experiences should show it to you – 15a agreements were never very optimistic when you look at the past. That means we fixed: Increases in contributions, moderate increases in prescription fees and hospital costs. And that's where it's starting to be absurd. The hospital fee will be paid to the countries at home. First of all, this is not very courageous and, secondly, is contrary to the health policy objectives. I want harmonization in Austria. Instead of a National Day, I fear we will celebrate nine in the future. Each federal state has its national day. [[Abg. Scheibner: A very intelligent comparison!]] – No, that’s not a funny comparison, it’s going in this direction. [[Abg. Silhavy: Carinthia, these are the first ones!]] – In Carinthia, it's a subject anyway, they already have it. Now you are making the hospital charges on the matter of the countries, that is to say, against the electricity of a harmonization. And what is it? – At the same time, they want to bring back, disassemble, demise and demise the hospital beds. There are the biggest costs, so the hospital charges would necessarily have to fall again. That is to say, if the countries agree to your reform, they will cut back the revenue from the hospital charges. So that's not an encouraging incentive system to do something in the hospitals. What you do with the glasses may have only one advantage: If self-financing increases, then political short-sightedness will at last be subject to private funding. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have to say in the truest sense of the word: Glass eyes, be watchful! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Over €30 million you want to get out of here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Did you get a post for your glasses?]] Cash registers also finance glass eyes, which is not so ridiculous at all. But then, instead of a glass eye, you will get only one eye bandage. And I don't like that. You also know, Mr Scheibner, Austria lies in terms of the private burden in the health system... – I have already paid my contribution, indeed. [[Abg. Scheibner: Did you get a post for your glasses?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Whether you have received a contribution for your glasses?]] - I don't know. I didn't even ask for that, but it could be already. But now the contributions of the private are raised, not the contributions of the cash registers. You have to read it. You want to save € 30 million in these reliefs. We are third in the world as far as these things are concerned. Now I come to the agencies and platforms. There was a lot of fun, there were different opinions. I have to tell you, Mrs Federal Minister, whether the Federal Agency is called, or the platform, or from me, even western Diwan, that would be totally no matter if, through a stronger competence of the federal government, it were possible for patients to offer the same modern and meaningful services throughout Austria and to harmonise the contributions. But what has become of these platforms? – They're talking about the federal government hearing strengthened, Rasinger says the minister has abandoned power. If you decide in the Federal Agency things that are not judged by the countries, you will not get their consent. That is, I fear that the requirements will already be watered down in the Federal Agency in order to maintain this compromise with the countries. And that certainly is not for the benefit of the patients. What has suddenly been set up in the Agency? – A branch of office, where countries have voting rights, which guarantee them majority voting, and a service area of established area where the cash registers have majority voting rights. That is, what I wanted to fight, the isolated view of the settled and stationary area, is re-examined in the structure. I'll make a coordination area for this. That really can't be good. No one will be able to explain that to me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And what happens to the cash registers? That's what I'm looking at. In these platforms or agencies, it is said, the social insurance companies represented. But there is, as you know, not only social and health insurance, but many. However, you know that the local health insurance fund has at least 80 percent of all contributions from the insured and seven other large cash offices over 20 percent after Adam Riese. If all the funds are represented, those who own or own 80 percent of the budget resources or manage them will only be weighted to a seventh against those who represent 20 percent. I call this a possible – I say possible, because I am careful and perhaps too polite – but probably political overcoloration, which cannot fit. If the cash registers are more or less catapulted into the audience role from the participation of the stationary supply sector, that cannot be good either. Finally, I believe that you have done something about this reform and have not been able to resist and resist enough. I'd still do that to you. This will have to be represented by the one who has negotiated this with the countries, the one who, in addition to the cash registers, has also visited the Chamber of Labour. I believe that at too many political games, the ultimate losers of a policy that is no longer a game are the patients. And that shouldn't be it. Maybe you can correct some more, but I'm afraid a great opportunity has been rejected, and I'm sorry for all of us, especially the patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8690	The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8708	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I do not share your pessimistic opinion, Mr Green Forest. In your criticism, you have mentioned something right in some respects, but I think it can be very well demonstrated that, despite the difficult real-political situation, an optimum has been found here in terms of new structures and possibilities. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was without a doubt a difficult operation, but it succeeded, and the patient is facing his recovery. The acute symptoms – that was the open Financial needs in the healthcare sector – and there are also – that is absolutely crucial and that was never the case in previous years – have been a concept for medium and long-term therapy: on the one hand, the structural package, which has also been very positively assessed by your side, and on the other hand – and on the other hand, thanks to the tireless Secretary of State Schweitzer, who really did pioneer work in awareness-building here – also for the first time means for a prevention that deserves this name. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Rasinger.]] These two measures together are not immediately – which is why the need for fresh money is given immediately – but in the medium and, above all, in the longer term, lead to a cost reduction in health care, which we urgently need, because the cost increase has, as has been said, been given on the basis of the demographic situation. This should also be stressed here: There is agreement in Austria that access to medical services must not be restricted from social conditions. The medical offer made by a State is the result of a social effort and must therefore be available to all. Clearly, the situation we found. We wanted – and this is just the difference and a new way – to make a new approach, i.e., no fresh means in an inefficient system. As clear as the conditions were, so difficult, Mr Green Forest, was the task of real political implementation. Because the efficiency of the system suffered – as you have a hundred percent right, all the experts say that it is also really with hands and easy to recognize for a layman – the inefficiency of the system was because the individual players, especially doctors, the countries and social insurance companies, have not seen a common approach. These were separate areas, which not only acted separately but often in competition with each other. This had to be changed – that is a little bit like the square of the circle, but I think Mrs. Minister really made a lot of progress here with a lot of empathy – that was something you had to change, with the will and with the help of these separate areas. That's not quite easy. On the one hand, it is complained that this package would lead to a centralization, on the other hand, you say it will not come to that, but you complain of a further federalization. You can see how difficult that is. It is the very influential bodies and institutions that have their own lives, have their own self-confidence, have their own understanding of what is good in health policy, and they should now give up their separation. - Nothing easier than that. I mean, in the context of the potential – and politics, as we know, the art of the possible – there has been a lot of success. We have – and I am pleased that the liberals have found the last hearing – prevented the introduction of an additional structure with health agencies at country level. The health platforms, as they are now available, involve the hospital funds, i.e. no additional structure. It will succeed, and I also think it is very crucial – I have recently considered that the medical profession in this Parliament is not very numerous – to involve the medical profession. I find the reaction of the doctor of Brettenthaler, as he presented it in the APA, very positive. There have already been quite different statements from the doctor's chamber to previous reforms. It has succeeded in creating a structure in which all these players plan for each other, in which there is a common area, and in which no one feels circumcised in his competence, in his contractual ability. This was a prerequisite that there should be voluntaryness, and that has been largely successful. The second broking was: How do we put up the acute additional resources needed, these famous 305 million? The countries – quite clearly, this is a basic political rule – have just reversed the junkim: No structural reform without additional resources. We have not made it easy for ourselves as a Freedom Party, and I am very grateful to our clubman, who probably had a bit of annoyance here in some of them, but it has paid, Mr Klubobmann, to 100 percent. [[Complaints with the liberals]] We have said that there must be socially acceptable possibilities, it must be limited in particular. This has not yet been said, so I will delete it. It is really a great success for the government that this has been seen and that it has succeeded in establishing that all these additional revenues are limited; limited until the health reform takes effect. It is a great success that there is not to increase the recipe fee. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] In fact, unlike what you say and even if you would like to represent it that way, there is no increase in the recipe fee. This is the routine valorization that already exists. So no increase in the prescription fee! I am very clear about the hospital charges: It is reasonable that those who intend to spend the funds should also argue why they are being collected in addition. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that this is a fair and above all a very efficient principle. You're gonna think about it a little bit. And I, which I know quite a bit about the situation in Lower Austria, ask Pröll from this point of view from Landesrat Sobotka and Landeshauptmann not to take immediate action on the instrument of the increase in contributions, but before – and I know that in Lower Austria there is a lot in there – to push for the most efficient, clean and economical administration in the hospitals that are becoming increasingly national hospitals. All in all, this reform – for the first time since long – goes new ways. So it's not just about raising the missing money. That's how it has always been: Money that's missing, we'll get back in through loads. There is the link with the reform. The implementation of the additional funds is balanced and fair as a result of tough negotiations within the framework of the possible, balanced and fairness. I would like to stress once again: The increase in the prescription fee is not coming. The increase in hospital contributions does not have to come when the countries are breaking up. This health reform is balanced, it will promote the trend towards economic and economical use of resources, and the high level of medical care is guaranteed for everyone at the same level of access. – We would like to give this chapter Health our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8817	The next speaker was Mr Lacner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8865	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Stresses and limitations on performance for sick people, the preparation of the two-class medicine once again have a clearly assigned name with today's day: Federal Minister for Smoking and her willing supporters in ÖVP and FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would particularly like to congratulate you, Mr Scheibner – he is not here right now: You took a long time before you fell over again – this time from Sunday to Thursday – otherwise it was usually after a few hours. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Stop! Such a fool!]] It's a step forward that you'll only fall over after so long. Mrs. Federal Minister! As proof of this fact, I am presenting to you today the balance sheet of your non-social policy. [[The speaker put forward a paper entitled “Taxation of People by ÖVP and FPÖ in Health Care 2001 – 2005” on the speaker’s desk.]] € 1 541 million on the back of sick and weak people – a truly “beautiful” balance of your policy, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! After today's day and the restriction of performance in the field of glasses, I ask myself the question: What's going on? – And this question is not entirely unwarranted. I can remind you of your press conference yesterday, where you said: As regards health services which have always been financed, it is to be questioned whether they still have their rights. – That, Mrs. Federal Minister, is really a cynical and responsible threat to all sick people in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! If these restrictions on performance in the glasses have fallen by a few Members of your group, I can remind you that this will be about € 51 million and between € 8 and € 191 in individual cases. Whether this is a small thing, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, I dare to doubt it! And that will go on, colleague Rasinger! – I ask you, Mrs Minister: Explain to us here and today where you still intend to make further restrictions on services and cuts in health care! Mrs. Federal Minister! The Austrians no longer trust you in health policy! I present to you today the shocking results of a survey on the impact of your health policy: Scepticism towards the exclusion of hospitals and hospitals – Austrians fear poorer supply. Nearly 60 percent of respondents expect health care to deteriorate. Already 44 percent of respondents feel burdened by health expenditure. As far as the prescription fee is concerned, Mr Rasinger, there is a brand new survey, according to which the Austrians strongly reject a further increase, as well as hospital closures. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rasinger! Mrs. Federal Minister! It is rather terrifying how exactly the Austrians predict your next unsocial burdens. – This is the result of your policy, which you completely disband, instead of trying to start with us here in the House – together with us! – to launch a reform worthy of this name. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: That's what you have to tell the knight and the chief!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! How far you have actually deviated from the path of the Second Republic's consensus democracy is shown by the attack on one of the carrying pillars of our country: the Austrian Chambers of Workers. For me and my group and many Austrians, this has far exceeded the limit of the future. Mrs Bundesminister, I therefore ask you: Unsolicited These attacks, and return to the path of consensus policy, consensus policy also in health policy! Think about your Christian-social roots, and make a health reform with us – as I have already mentioned – that deserves this name! We, the Federal Minister, stand for the following objectives: We stand for fair, equal access to basic care and top medicine for all people – and this seems to be at risk from today's policies. We stand for quality and quantitatively measurable health goals. We stand for strengthening patient rights. We stand for improving the service in health care. We stand for an efficient use of the funds in health care, and, ladies and gentlemen, we stand for strengthening the quality of health care and – and this is very important, Mr Rasinger – for a solidary financing of health care and oppose your unsocial restraints. Health policy is too important for the SPÖ, Mrs. Federal Minister, to deliver it to your short-term party political interests. We therefore strongly reject this unsocial and unolidarian health policy. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8939	Mrs. Rauch-Kallat has spoken from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e8957	Mr President. High house! It fits well with that: I very much regret that the SPÖ rejects this very balanced financial package, at least as far as the National Council group is concerned; I do not know how the Federal Council will decide. The SPÖ politicians in the federal states – Gabi Burgstaller was also involved in the negotiations on the structural package – were very much indebted to the structural package. I do not know if you have heard anything else, I have heard very well the statements of Mrs Burgstaller, who has also worked together in a constructive dialogue with Mrs Stadtrat Brauner. Landeshützmann Häupl and Vice-Chairman Rieder von der SPÖ are also well aware of this package, which includes a balanced relationship between contributions, general solidarity benefits and own benefits. Let me just say something about the prescription fee. What happens at the recipe fee is the long-awaited valorization of the recipe fee, which takes place annually. That's 10 cents from this to the next year – a very moderate, reasonable increase. What happens to the visual aids was not easy, but very precise discussion, and that was what I suggested yesterday in my press conference. So you don't have to fear what's coming. The health insurance companies will still be asked to look a bit where there are still efficiency potentials that they have not yet benefited. Some have already used them on pressure from the ÖVP/FPÖ government, and we have already achieved substantial savings through the administrative cost cover for health insurance. What does the vision relief package actually look like? – It is undisputed that children and socially vulnerable, but also highly vulnerable, will receive the previous cost participation of health insurance. The definition is the ophthalmologist, the ophthalmologist. That is, where higher costs are indicated by the need for bifocal glasses, where the cost of lenses is indicated on the basis of high short-sightedness, will naturally take place as before. What is to be deleted is the principle of foundry. To the designer glasses. The Secretary of State promised at the press conference, she meant 500 € and not 5 000 €, and this cost designer glasses soon. The payment of the health insurance fund is made automatically and amounts to € 10.35 for the frame or up to € 13.85 – that is different for the checkouts – and € 5.35 per glass. This also applies to bifocal glasses, if it is medically indicated, so if it is not a luxury, as it is the case with me. I have 1.5 dioptrias and because of my age I also have a bifocal glasses, but I can afford it, and I also stand for it. And if I want a special, break-proof glass and want to do that which weighs only six grams – and that's the price of glasses – then I don't need this health insurance allowance of 20 or 23 €. That is what we mean by “forgone. ” This will save us €35 million from €65 million now. So you see, the mass of these 65 million is these small payments. Those who need the glasses, namely the children, the socially weak and the highly or more visually impaired, where it is medically indicated, will continue to receive the grant at the same level. I therefore consider this package to be really balanced and invite the SPÖ to agree. I was somewhat surprised at the expression ‘Cäsarwahn’, Mr Green Forest. I didn't feel it like that! It is precisely in the structural package that more women than men have negotiated here, and I believe we have achieved a good result. It is important to note that this is a first important step, so the package has not yet been implemented. It will now be very likely – and I will give you time and invite you to join us – how these structural measures will actually be implemented in the individual health platforms in the countries, in the Federal Health Agency. After all, we have made a lot of agreement, so that no one has to be afraid of being overwhelmed by the League. This is always the great concern of the doctors, the great concern of the federal states that they are overrun by a centralist federal will. We don't have that. We confess to a partnership relationship between the federal government and the federal states and all players in the health system, i.e. also the doctors, the other health care providers, the religious hospitals, which also make an important contribution in Austrian health care, as well as of course all hospitals. The eye of glass will therefore be alert, Mr Green Forest. I am convinced that you will be the same, and I also invite you and your group to cooperate constructively, because we will need this especially in the field of health statistics. But I would like to say a few words about the overall budget, because this is not just a debate on health reform. Mr Gusenbauer has criticized the increase in staff costs. It's important to me to put something right here. In 2003, the Ministry of Health was only existing from May onwards. That is to say, it was a year of tumult, and staff expenditure was only eight out of twelve months. In addition, there have been false personnel calculations in the division of the ministry. So the personnel costs were miscalculated, not by head. Therefore, there has been an undercovering, and since this was a double budget for the years 2003 and 2004, this undercover has been continued in 2004. We had to scratch and cover the missing amount from the rest of the budget, and now for the first time there is budgetary truth about the head truths. So there is no increase in the heads here, but quite the contrary: As a result of these miscalculations, which have happened, I have had problems paying the pragmatic officials. I can't send her to pension, and I don't want to send her to pension at all. On this occasion, I would like to express my sincere thanks to those officials who have worked at our home in the last few days and weeks in part day and night. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would also like to thank those who worked day and night in the federal states. The structural package was completed on Saturday evening, by our officials until three o'clock in the early days. From noon on Sunday, all the state officials were sitting on their computers, it checked through once more, so that on Sunday evening we had the okay of all of them. This is a performance that goes far beyond what is compulsory, and I would like to thank you very much for that. So we did not increase staff costs with this budget, but quite the contrary. What is new in the budget – and I would like to mention it in the context of my remarks – is that the Federal Animal Protection Act will for the first time create a federal competence for animal welfare, which will be established at our ministry. For this purpose, the financial cover of 3.5 million € can be found in Chapter 17. The complete reorganisation of pharmaceutical authorisation, pharmaceutical inspection and pharmacovigilance with a breakdown of the Federal Institute for Pharmacology in a Pharm Austria is achieved by a prudent internal retransmission of financial resources. Additional measures to be taken under the Medicines Act: For the first time, extensive activities of the Ministry in the field of health promotion and prevention, such as information campaigns to promote movement, mental health and smoking, can also be anchored. This will ensure the promotion of health promotion and drugs facilities and ensure the continued supply of vaccines to the population, in particular to children's vaccination programmes. But let me also say something about the women's budget, because I want to discuss not only on the basis of the current discussion on health issues but also on the women's budget. In Chapter 17, there is enough room for the Federal Minister to ensure sustainable funding for the numerous women's service and intervention agencies for the next two years. There will be more money for the intervention agencies against violence, which, I believe, are doing great work, from themselves, on information from the executives to those who are concerned next year, as well as a valorization for the women's services, which I think is urgently needed. For the first time, the general promotion of women with its diverse women-specific projects has for the first time been an increase in funding by €500 000 – perhaps a modest but yet a certain framework that will enable us to also promote new projects. The extension of competence of the equal treatment attorneyship and the creation of the new equal treatment committees are also accompanied by a significant increase in the budget for these institutions. I know that SPÖ is still too little, but vice versa, your party president has sued the personnel costs. You have to decide what you'd like. The SPÖ still wanted more staff. We have decided here, I think, to have a good middle path. We will see to what extent the equal treatment prosecutions are being used in the other areas, and we will also see whether the coverage of the funds and, above all, whether the human occupation is sufficient. I am very glad that we will succeed in pursuing important measures in the area of the closure of income shears. On the one hand, it is about awareness-raising measures for young girls and parents as regards choice of profession, on the other hand, about projects for the re-entry of women who leave the profession for the family phase, in order to facilitate their re-entry, on the same or better conditions and not, as is sometimes the case, on worse conditions. We have already put in place important measures here with the childcare allowance and the increased ability to earn. With the harmonisation of pensions and the more than doubling of the basis of assessment for the pension, in addition to any additional earnings, it is, as I believe, a sustainable pension scheme for women. We will also intensify our mentoring initiatives in order to facilitate the rise of women in the profession, and thus also all other initiatives to reconcile family and work for mothers and fathers, because it is important for us to bring fathers into their responsibilities too, because emancipation of mothers, equality of mothers will only be possible if the fathers are willing to live and actually contribute their share not only in employment, but also in family work. In this sense, I would ask you to agree to this, as I have said, very balanced budget and also health reform, because there is still some time in Parliament. I look forward to constructive cooperation and thank all those who have proved this in recent weeks and months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9082	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9100	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer once again to the comments made by Mr Lacner, who, in his contribution to the debate on health, said that he called for more constructiveness and more consensus. I think our Federal Minister has been very concerned about this constructiveness in recent months and about this consensus, but this simply doesn't fit into your hands in participative terms. The same is true of women's policy. We are discussing not only the health budget, but also the women's sector today. I am very glad that the Federal Minister has already made the transfer, because women should not be too short in this area even now in this debate. In recent months, Maria Rauch-Kallat has set very important emphasis on women's activities and has also been able to rework some financial resources for women's activities. I really urge the members of the opposition parties to see this constructively and positively, just as Mr Lacner did before, and, I believe, to go a positive and consensus-oriented way, especially in the area of women. Especially when it comes to women's affairs, we should link women, I think, better ropes and force better networking. It does not serve women's interests, if you always say goodbye to the responsibility, if it becomes serious whether this is the equal treatment law, the exemption of the lawyer's instructions, whether this is the tax reform with important measures, especially for single owners, or whether this is the question of pension harmonisation, where we will also take very important measures in the interests of women. They always say goodbye when it is important and when it comes to taking responsibility. [[Abg. Sburny: Then how do you explain that the situation of women is getting worse and worse?]] – You claim because you push out facts, quite simply things that don’t vote. Read the budget! I refer once again to what Maria Rauch-Kallachon said. They're talking about saving us. Where do we save? We have an increase in the women's budget of 22 percent since we took office. We have 22 percent more for women's activities! Of course, Mrs Weinzinger: In 2002, we were just under €5 million, for 2004 and 2005 we budget more than €6 million for women's activities, 3.5 million for the promotion of women's initiatives – you can read all of this – for women's and girls' advice, for women's institutions, for projects against violence against women and children, where the Federal Ministry is still co-financed, and 2.5 million in the field of expenditure for women's specific issues, focus on equal treatment tasks, gender mainstreaming and so on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That's fact. You just don't want to take note of it, because it doesn't fit in with your party politics. In 2003, for example, we set very specific measures for re-entry women alone, and there are also successes. 17 800 women who had previously been identified at the AMS were able to find employment in a qualified area. Please, these are real measures! The Women's Business Mentoring, which the Federal Minister has already mentioned, is also a very important area, a close of women's shoulders for women, not only for top-ranking workers, but also in rural areas. That too, please, must be mentioned. To the area of migrants, which was always so important to you. The Minister for Women has also set a new important emphasis by setting up a new department for Women's Services and Principles of Migrant Women in the Ministry, where these women's concerns are addressed in a targeted and individual manner. Or the gender budgeting pilot project. [[Abg. Sburny: Where?]] You criticize, all of this is too little for you. They're laughing. We have invited you, including in committee. Since 2000, there has been a working group working together to develop strategies, and there are also concrete pilot projects in all areas. In this respect, there is first experience in other countries. Make concrete proposals! We are on the right track here, and we are also taking very specific measures to ensure that equal opportunities and improvements for women are taken into account in budgeting. We are also very good at the EU section in terms of women's employment rate – which will certainly come back again. We are far above the EU section. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Weinzinger.]] – That’s just the truth, Mrs. Colleague! They don't want it to be true. 59.6% in 2000, now 62.8%. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] The EU cut is 55.3 percent. We are far above this, and the lives of women will also change over the next few years. Women have thanked God an ever better education, an ever better qualification. We have more academics, more maturants, and women will also make other careers. I also say quite clearly to you at this point, because you always address the income shears, you have to say it again and again: One cannot pick up over a pension reform or through a budget all that has been missed in the last decades and has not happened. It's not possible. Let us work together to make real improvements! Here, all the social partners, all the parties, society as a whole, are called for, where we simply need to rethink. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But we're working constructively on it! You're not ready to do that. Finally – unfortunately, we have already lost something in the debate on the previous budget chapter – I can very much thank the staff in the ministry, the Federal Minister, as well as all women who work positively and constructively in the many women's projects and in the various women's initiatives. I think that's very important. A warm thanks to her, too. They all help to reverse the trend. Work with us too, be courageous, work at taking proper steps in women's policy here in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9183	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9201	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! That was almost a heart - moving appeal to constructiveness. However, their definition of constructiveness and women's solidarity is that you say: At the end of the day, when we knock a finished thing on the table, which corresponds to our ideology alone, please agree! – From your point of view, this is constructive and solidary. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] “Solidarian” would mean looking at the reality of women’s lives instead of speaking beautifully, not saying that there will be new careers for young women, but looking at what careers these are, namely, more and more atypical jobs, part-time jobs, non-existent jobs. These are these new careers that are emerging today. You should say: There is the most urgent need for action for politics, for a women's minister. What are we doing? - You won't do that! I'll be constructive anyway. Let's start with the positive – it's fast, it's not too much –: At the last budget debate, we were quite clear with proposals and said that the Minister is responsible for health and women at the same time. It would therefore be important to take a closer look at gender aspects in medicine. I felt that in the first debates on this – at the time in the Committee on Budgets – the understanding of the Connex was not yet particularly clear. I am all the more pleased that there is now an initiative by the Minister: Gender medicine in education at the university and during further training offered by the doctor's chamber. I can only congratulate you on that. This is a real step in the right direction. Please keep going! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will then come to the actual chapter, namely women's policy. I now swing between the silences that Klubobmann Scheibner made creatively yesterday at the speaker's desk – which would fit the activity most precisely – and the list of the new initiatives of the minister – that takes about five seconds to express the word "menstrual tower" – and a philosophical approach for which I would decide. It's really exciting, because philosophically not uninteresting: Can anyone who doesn't do anything wrong? How far is the form of inactivity a form of action? Is there any non-thin at all? So can anyone who doesn't do anything have done it wrong? Politically, I believe, this question can be clearly answered. Politically, it is the task of a minister to shape, take responsibility and do things. A minister who doesn't do anything has therefore already failed. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Who do you mean?]] If there were several candidates in the government, I would agree to you. As it is about women's policy, I mean the women's minister, who, as a woman's minister, really did not stand out. Perhaps she was so busy with health, no idea, but you might also need to take over resorts that can be handled from the scale. At any rate, it cannot be expected that Austria has a majority of the population who are female, but a woman minister who does not come to her task. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What makes things worse is that some trends are still recognizable. I can only outline the trends now, because the list of all individual cases would go far beyond the time frame. But first of all, we have the trend, not only, but also in the women's ministry: We bring everything to our house – service station with us, hotline in the Ministry of Justice, report without NGOs. What else do we need civil society, NGOs and all these critical thinkers for? – So much for the assessment of the women's advisory services, whose work, by the way, is also valorizing – is equal to inflation – will be increased, but not by the urgently needed means. This would also be the trend number two: They say one thing and do the other. It is said that protection against violence for girls and women is very important for us to be strengthened, and the intervention agency has just been praised, but one does the other. This time, the Vienna intervention agency had to stop working for several districts because there was simply no money available and the relevant ministries, i.e. the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Women, had cut off or not financed in addition. A advisory body for sexually abused girls and young women, not something that devours summaries, which would actually be in the mainstream of the minister's political discourse, has not received any more funds from the health department in the third year and reduced funds from the women's department of your department, Mrs. Minister. It's simple for me and it's just not understandable. At least sexually abused young girls will probably be able to provide the necessary support to this state, which one will still be able to afford. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In the same trend also fits in that you preach the modern, independent woman, but the political design is such that women move away from the social network and the ground under their feet and dramatically aggravate the conditions for the independence of women. The necessary support, which needs independence, is no longer available. That means we have a modernist rhetoric here: Even the woman, strong, modern, urban, no longer needs a state!, and at the same time, a retro-political policy consisting of child care money, free women's work in the family for care, family hospice and so on, and where the entry into self-employment, into the labour market becomes increasingly difficult. The fact that the whole thing then also falls on the head of women in the guest house is nice talking to the private pension provision. – That would be the third trend. We see a privatisation of women's policy, just as we have now experienced it in the field of health reform: The responsibility for possible new loads is already being shifted to the individual ophthalmologist. They're supposed to decide whether to pay or not. It is nothing else in women's policy. The responsibility for not being able to live in Saus and Braus lies with the woman alone, for if she had arranged it differently, she would have married otherwise, whatever was always done – which is shown to be only a few in a certain salary class, purely numerically seen by the existing men. So she's guilty herself. Unfortunately, this government does not understand that it could be used to take AMS measures in order to actually support the female employment rate in order to actually contribute to a reduction in income scarcity. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this respect, I can only expect a great deal of amusement, as one will clearly contribute €3.5 plus €2.5 million to the reduction and closure of income shears, especially if one is only concerned with the repair measure of the damage caused by the childcare allowance. We have increased the level of integration of women into the labour market due to the lack of protection of child care, and this will pose much greater problems. We can only dream of the employment rate of women and their rise. Perhaps, Mrs Scheucher-Pichler, you should look at some part-time adjusted figures. Let us take the working conditions where women, at least alone, perhaps also with their children, can live half well, and then look at the quota. Do not always calculate every minor employment, which includes ten hours, which is at best the trust you so hotly loved, with pure! Last comment, because your great new trend is gender budgeting. I have already brought some Bonmots from the information you yourself have quoted at the last session, from the examples you yourself have mentioned. I would just like to add to this today what the Ministry of the Interior understands as Gender Mainstrea-ming and Gender Budgeting, after yesterday's Minister of the Interior has been particularly prominent in favour of equal numbers of women in selected political precarious cases. The Ministry of the Interior stated in the equal treatment report that it now had the portal with a woman. – This changes dramatically the entire staffing in the Ministry of the Interior. When it comes to police reform, where it is really about hand-resistant personnel issues where women and men equal treatment would be a hot iron, the Minister has not even come to the idea that it could be gender mainstreaming relevant. As a gender budgeting measure, Minister Strasser states: the promotion of the intervention agency against violence against women – I really find that to be “moving”: the one he himself has shortened this year! That's just to hope it'll get better. And I think that if I look at the matter in total, Mrs Minister, I can only recommend that you get into a women's mentoring programme.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9273	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Mr Achleitner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9291	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Weinzinger, I think it simply should not be that something woman-specific positive is being made by this federal government. I think you just want to see the negative. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Tell us!]] I will now tell you some very positive aspects in the future. Let us assume that, although general savings have been announced, the budget at the Ministry of Women has increased by €500 000. That must be one of the positive aspects. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Inflation tax is called such a thing!]] In particular, the budget will be increased to cover the intervention agencies you have referred to, which are truly excellent and excellent, so that these dedicated employees can continue their work. This budget is only half of the total budget, because the other half is from the Ministry of the Interior, and the budget is not reduced either. Mrs. Weinzinger, you have also mentioned that you do not like the promotion of women's career. We insist that there is a independence of women, and that is why we are promoting it. We also see it as very positive that the mentoring offensive is further promoted by this increased budget, because I can tell you from my own experience that I have a mentee myself, and that brings great benefits to women, especially in the field of leadership tasks. But, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular the ladies of the opposition, women's policy is a cross-cutting matter for us. That is to say, we are focusing not only on promotions and opportunities, which in particular offers the budget of the Ministry of Women, but we are looking at this with a certain view. I do not think that you are missing a long-term perspective, but you must look at other budgets and other options, and there are a lot of approaches that deal with women's promotion in particular. I would like to address women's promotion in the top-ranking sector, particularly in the women's promotion budget, with €218 000, which makes it possible for women in particular to be promoted in non-olimpic and non-olimpic sports, or to be promoted by women whose achievements are not yet supported by Topsport Austria. The silver medal winner of Athens, Claudia Heil, was exactly one of those women who through this sport promotion had the opportunity to obtain financial grants. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There are also many possibilities in science: € 17 million will be made available for women-promoting measures in the years 2000 to 2006. This ranges from special support from professors to the development of child care facilities to initiatives to strengthen women in science and vocational fields in the future. I mentioned it yesterday in the debate on the technology budget: FEMtech, a program of the Ministry of Infrastructure. In 2005 €1.5 million will be available to promote women in technical and technological and research firms for non-university research and in enterprises carrying out these technological research. Ladies and gentlemen! That is true women's policy, as we understand it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Women's funding was also taken into account in the tax reform. I am thinking only of the amount of amortization, which primarily benefits single parents, which can also receive a negative tax, and of the tax exemption up to €15,770, which unfortunately – I must say: unfortunately – is primarily available to women, since many women are still at the lower limit from income. Harmonization of pension systems: They say it's bad, we say it's good that for the first time child rearing is recognized as a performance. Ladies and gentlemen! Women's policy is certainly taken very seriously by this government. We just don't see this in isolation, in a single budget, but women's promotion must be implemented in all sectors. Nevertheless, the approach in this women's budget is a good one. But you don't do anything good to women if you don't agree. That is why I appeal to you, ladies, first and foremost of the SPÖ and of the Greens: Please agree to the Ministry of Women's Budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9363	Mr Mag, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9382	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to Mr Achleitner for addressing the measures concerning women's promotion, for example in sport. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Yes, we are all grateful!]] I do not understand when there are women sitting here at the SPÖ who do away with what is done in this context. I can remember times when there were SPÖ politicians who would have been responsible for women's promotion in sport. And there was exactly nothing there, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the Greens. In contrast, there is now not only a single support package for women in top-ranking sports, and there has not been a promotion, but there are about 150 women who work in top-level sports. They obviously have little idea of it, but still talk about it. This is the problem with you: that you often talk about things you have no idea. But I'm here now to inform you, and please be polite to listen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder.]] Mrs Binder, you don't have much to do with sports, you see! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Abg. Reheis: This is a naughtiness! That's a terrible thing!]] ‘Topsport Austria’.... [[Further violent calls to the SPÖ.]] What is it? – Her calls show that she has relatively little to no concern at all with this, and I can also make it easy for me to prove it. [[Abg. Heinzl: Shame!]] [[Abg. Heinzl: You are visually unbearable! Shame!]] “Topsport Austria”... – Mrs. Binder! [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] If you understand something of what I said differently than I meant, then I will withdraw it with the expression of regret. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Think about what you say before!]] [[Abg. Reheis: Shame!]] Nevertheless, I will continue to show that we are doing a great deal for women, Mr President. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] In order to promote women, a summary should be made of the following: There is now the Women’s Top Sports Promotion Project, there is “Top Sports Austria” for women, and there is above all also the so-called “After Sports” project, which will ensure that women who have been active in top-level sports also have the opportunity to take up training in professional activities after their sporting careers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also give an opinion on health reform. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: You're not interested in us!]] I believe that the three package of measures we have chained are very, very good packages. The financing package, the structural package and also the prevention package can be described as good packages. The financing package, which is necessary in the short term, is, of course, a compromise, but a good compromise and a balanced compromise. The structural package, which is considered by all to be positive, also yesterday, by Mr Van der Bellen, who was considered by the national leaders, Mrs Burgstaller, by Mr Häupl, will lead to the fact that for the first time not only money will be redistributed, but in fact reforms will take place – and in particular reforms will take place between them. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This means that we can overcome the strict separation of the various sectors in the health sector, and we can also achieve better coordination in the planning, management and financing of the entire health care system. In the longer term, the measures to reduce costs and improve efficiency will ensure the financial viability of the Austrian health system. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What you have not really addressed so far is the area of prevention, which is a very large part of this package. Mr Greenewald, I regret that you have not devoted yourself to this prevention area, unlike Mr Rasinger and other health speakers. I think that the possibility of working with organized sports will create a new situation for doctors: You can prescribe the so-called “green recipe. ” Movement units instead of medication – that is, I think, a very, very useful procedure because we can prevent them before it is necessary to use drugs. We have long and detailed negotiations with representatives of organized sports. The large umbrella organisations will develop movement programmes that will become effective in the preventive field. I think this is a very, very good approach, and I am already looking forward to working with all those in the field of health policy who will give a high priority to prevention in the future. We have created the conditions for this with the structural package. I believe that this is a good step to get from the ‘health telephone’ to the ‘health telephone’.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9565	Mrs Silhavy spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9583	Mr President. I would ask you to give the Secretary of State a call for order. It has recently become common practice that the government bank has made personal efforts against Members in regard to their appearance or activity. This is an unsituation that is not supposed to break in here, and if the Secretary of State has meant half-heartedly, if we understand it differently, then he will take it back, I would insist that he at least make a formal real excuse to the honourable Member Binder, because this is an indifference and we have not experienced it here for the first time in this House. I think you, too, would do a favor to the Minister of Women if you did not act in this discriminatory form against women.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9610	Madam President, I have done my utmost to raise the issue of polemics from the Government Bank or an interlocutory comment with the next President, because I agree with you. I am sure, however, that the Secretary of State will express his views to the honourable Member accordingly. I'm sure he won't have a problem with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9629	Mr President. Mrs Binder, I have been dealing with the promotion of women in sport in my remarks. Obviously, all that we do for women in sports is not widely known. I am sorry for my remark, which has obviously been misunderstandingd. I withdraw them with the expression of regret.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9665	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has spoken next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9684	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary, I am ashamed of this incredible derailment for which you have not even apologised! [[Accompaniment with the SPÖ and the Greens as well as the Abg. Steibl.]] Mr State Secretary, you know that women's promotion in sport is a very important concern for us. Especially you have always said that women's policy is a cross-sectional matter. You have set an example, but you have insulted a colleague personally and have not apologised for it. And that is truly contemptible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If one closes one's life's realities, then statements are made like those of the Ladies Scheucher-Pichler and Achleitner, non-reality. However, if you do not close yourself to the truth, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the employment processes of women, if you look at how the wage shears are beating apart – up to 36 percent; we are finally in the EU – when you look at the fact that women are among the greatest losers in the harmonisation – for women now have lower incomes and therefore lower pensions – you will realize that this health reform, as it stands today, makes women lose again. Women are often disadvantaged and will not be favoured, but will again be disadvantaged by the problem of glasses, the increase in prescription fees and the day money. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: We do not raise a prescription fee!]] - Another disadvantage. Mrs. Federal Minister! This €3.5 million budget for women's promotion does not guarantee sustainable security, because a number of projects – this is the result of a request from you – have already been rejected this year, 2004, because there was not enough money and there was only this small increase – I think that is the €400 000; Mrs. Federal Minister, if it is not true, tell me – this amount that has migrated from the Ministry of Women's Development. In fact, this is not an increase in the budget, it is an increase in equality. Ladies and gentlemen! And a comparison that makes it particularly affected: We only have 3.5 million € for very many women's projects and girls' projects; this is very little money for important facilities. I would like to thank all the employees who work in such projects, but also all the officials of your ministry, who are certainly working under some difficult conditions, because no staff increases are taking place here too. I can do this from this point of view – that's all I can do. Unfortunately, I can't get any more money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, this is also no longer a budget, Mrs Frauenminister – you also admitted it in the Equal Treatment Committee – than was available for women's promotion in 1999. This budget is de facto frozen. You said we were at the 1999 stage. And it's very strange to me – I don't know how you are – I have a very unpleasant feeling when I think that there is more money for animal welfare, namely, €3.9 million. When I remember that for the operation of a pig database there are €3 million that will be made available for the establishment of a sheep and goat database €1.8 million, it seems quite embarrassing that we have only €3.5 million available for women and girls projects in Austria! [[Abg. Grill: Because the control for the safety of consumers requires that!]] [[Calls of the Abg. Lentic.]] I find this so tasteless that I cannot express how tasteless, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill: This is for control...!]] And we also know that the number of violent offences is increasing, Mr. Grillitsch, but there is less money available for it! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Tell me how the money is used for the pigs! That would really interest me now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn gives the bell sign again.]] Unfortunately, all the written replies from the Federal Minister of Finance from the Committee on Budgets are common, because wherever it is about money, ladies and gentlemen, it is subject to budgetary coverage. That means: Subject to budgetary coverage, there are no cuts. Subject to budgetary coverage, there are only these and those promotions or these and those increases. – This is not a sense of security that we take with us, but it is a feeling of great uncertainty as to this budget. Finally, I would just like to add a few more negative examples, which my fellow Members will then highlight even more. Migrants: You have not spoken about this, Mrs. Federal Minister. Women in rural areas, women in the working world, work and family compatibility. – This is at least 52 percent of the population you are serving badly, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! I'm very disappointed. I'm for women's solidarity, but that must be a real women's solidarity and help women. In part, however, women are harming their actions. I can tell you to conclude that two thirds of all women will not benefit from the tax reform, but all women pay the higher health insurance contribution to mention just a small example of women being the losers here too. But you're not responding. They're silent, and there's no yelling. I think that this underestimation of 52 percent of the population is simply scandalous.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9842	The next item is Mrs Grander.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9884	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer briefly to Mrs Weinzinger's statement that the Federal Minister is not a Minister for Women. I think I have already found in this House that Our Federal Minister has been active in women's work for a long time, and I therefore reject this claim. She strives and does a lot for women. I say she has this area very well in her hand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is known that the number of women in employment has increased. There are more and more working mothers; this has not been the case in recent years. 62 percent are self-employed. There is also a significant increase in part-time work, also due to childcare. Part-time employment is also strongly adopted by women due to their training. And we know in particular from the nursing training that there are many women who work 50 percent and do their training or training in these two and a half years, which is only possible under these conditions for them. For the Austrian health system, a comprehensive and innovative reform concept – this is now on the table – is needed, taking into account both high medical and nursing standards as well as economic requirements. Very short to care for: In order to meet the need for care and to enable the development of the necessary care structures, a corresponding number of caregivers must be trained. The level of training must be in line with the respective tasks. We urgently need the modular system, which is thought very strongly and is already in preparation, because modular training is useful. It is also important to me that at least 10 percent of caregivers should be academically trained. It is also necessary to ensure adequate funding of this training, and it is not to be overlooked that the status and autonomy of care is maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9935	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e9953	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I would like to express my express thanks for your words in view of Mr Silhavy's speech on the Rules of Procedure. However, I would also like to say the following: Mr State Secretary, if you are going to initiate a withdrawal as you have now done in the second attempt, because you have said that it has been ‘misunderstandable’, then this is not a withdrawal, but a responsibility for what has been said again to the recipient. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Exactly!]] It can't be that the consignee, who's supposed to have misunderstanded something, is the one who has the problem. – You have the problem, Mr State Secretary! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo, Karl!]] That's just the point: We know a number of so-called excuses from the political debates – and I would also like to have them used by my side – that are precisely the opposite of the one that says non-anpologies, and that is, I don't want to put it under your control, which is degoutant, and it is clear that, if so to speak, in an excuse – that was not necessarily your execution – the one who feels ridiculed and sees himself mocked – then also gets the responsibility over. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Our health spokesman, my colleague Kurt Grünewald, has already stated that we Greens could have started something with certain goals, as they were originally formulated by you. Yes, we Greens also believe that a problem of Austrian health care is the fragmentation, if you want to do so, that – although this is not heard – is excessive federalization where it does not make sense in this form. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... explain!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Excessive federalization means that if nine countries have different legislation – not only in terms of construction management, construction of hospitals, but also in terms of patient rights – when nine federal states have different rights. Do we need that? - No! Where would it make sense? – I can formulate one area for you: if a federal agency – for example, federal states or local authorities – sets out objectives and if so to speak, the areas under the law, the local authorities, can give rise to quite different ideas as to how they meet these objectives. That would make sense, such a best-practice model. We do not need other models that are called privatization et cetera – here I am entirely of your opinion, Mr Rasinger. But that was misaddressed to us: We Greens are not the ones who are driving the privatisation in health care. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Germany! Germany!]] We are more likely to suspect that your parties are very happy – there are also appropriate proposals and models that are repeatedly brought into the debate, Mr Rasinger – to love them. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] The health sector is one of those areas where one should not love privatization, for it is a good too precious. And your example of Britain – where not a social democratic government, but a conservative government has completely ruined the health sector – is meaningful enough. We Greens want to maintain a high level of health care. But we also want to expand the health system where there is no such level, where there are actually disparities, differences, different supply approaches. That's why, Mrs. Federal Minister, in your remarks, I have been so irritated by the one sentence in which you said yes, you also want this health care, you want to receive it and finance it – and then you said: For every euro that is given in addition, one is saved! What statement is that? [[Federal Minister of Smoking Call: In the remote area! In the administration!]] What statement is that? – That’s not imaginable! You said before you said that sentence, we need additional funding. But if one is saved for every euro that is additionally spent, then zero comes out below. Then this is a complete paradox, because then that means nothing but that the health costs are frozen. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right! A total nonsense!]] And frozen health costs with rising demands, rising performance and, of course, rising costs mean a reduction. And we don't make greens! If you, Mrs Bundesminister, have hardly presented this whole package you have presented today in Parliament – parentheses: Call sign – if you have made a compromise with the countries in this health package, I would like to make it clear to you very briefly, on the example of this compromise, that you are the loser of this compromise – not you as a person, but the health policy at the federal level. And that hurts us Greens, because we would have imagined something else: moving forward and not going back to structures that we really want to leave because they have proved inefficient. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] I explain this to you from my point of view – and you can then explain to me where I see it wrong –: You still write in your punctuation on the federal state agreement: It is a matter of overall responsibility of the local authorities and social security for the financing of health care. And you connect this with the structural question, i.e. with these federal and country health agencies or platforms – no matter what you call it. What is the solution to this overall responsibility in what you have now taken? The local health phone and all the other checkouts, but mainly the local health phone, have a huge deficit. These are the main financiers for the entire health sector in Austria. The countries – or we say more generally: the local authorities – are also a health-care financier, have a problem because of the tax reform, but are also providers of services, namely hospitals. The funding proposal now looks so that the local health telephones, the cash offices in general, are obliged to push over money from the cash register sector with a deficit into the countries. – Countries are not obliged to eliminate their inefficiencies where they have been identified. The countries get money, and the countries are told: If you don't care about this money, it'll get you with the patients! What is this structural proposal where patients, so to speak, who are sick, are obliged to pay for the inefficiencies that exist in the countries and that exist between the federal government and countries, not only between the federal government and countries, but also health insurance, for the problems of the friction areas? Are they supposed to pay now? – It really can't be, Mrs. Federal Minister! And that the hospital cost contribution in one federal country should be €7, in the other country €9, and €10 per day in the other state, that's the solution? That's the perspective? – That can't be it either, Mrs. Federal Minister! On this one example, I have come to realize that this model of federal health agencies and country platforms has been condemned to failure from the outset because on this issue of financing, financing of the financial compensation and the related health issue, it has shown that the countries have implemented themselves. And the countries say: We judge it ourselves as before, even for the future! The Federal Minister and the Federal Government in his responsibility for health care have had to resign! This is the result of this health compromise. No, thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the government. We are for a sensible federalism, yes, and it is also possible. Best-practice models would be useful. This can only be done if the federal responsibility is clear and strong enough. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] Wherever in this compromise the Federal Minister should have been strengthened from your side, the countries have been strengthened. – That’s the result, and that’s bitter. This is an absolute defeat for what you have previously called health reform. I'm sure we won't. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would just like to add one more aspect: Workers' chamber cover. We read the media... – It didn't die! [[Interference of Federal Minister Rauch-Kallat.]] Please, what do the Chamber of Labour and the increase, so to speak, have to deal with the problems of health care if the Chamber of Labour is raised? What does it do to health care if the Chamber of Labour does not receive € 1 million? – Nothing that brings health care, you know! But one thing you also know: The Chamber of Labour is weakened in carrying out its tasks. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Why weakened? Just because she...?]] You know that the processes, the labour processes, and the services that the Chamber of Labour had to provide in recent years – you know, Mrs. Brinek – have increased. This is also well known by your group, and that is why we are making the following request – Mrs Brinek, perhaps hearing. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The Chamber of Commerce has shortened its contributions!]] It's her! –: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The Chamber of Commerce has shortened its contributions! ...!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] This is simply and simply our desire: that you do not also try to solve a small political revanche game in connection with a certain very difficult matter such as health reform, but rather the institutions that are empowered to do so and which have been instructed by the legislator to perceive the interests of certain groups, whether it be the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Workers or the Chamber of Agriculture, within the framework of their self-management. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The Chamber of Commerce... the EU... took over tasks...!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Mrs. Brinek, why are you so nervous?]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You're nervous!]] That's what we're asking you to do!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10226	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger, Members of Parliament, on ensuring the working capacity of the Chambers of Workers and Workers is sufficiently supported, is under negotiation and will be put to the vote in about 20 or 25 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: For the Chamber of Commerce, too? - That's him.]] [[Abg. ==References====External links== Dr. Brinek) You did not listen before a great excitement, Mrs. Colleague.]] Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Requested time: 5 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10275	Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the statements made by Mr Oellinger or to the beginning of his remarks, where he said that the reply of Mr State Secretary of this House was not worthy and that style was not in order. I already admit that this speech was not all right or at the Border was, but he apologized! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Not at all!]] [[Abg. Dr. One: You believe... insult – and then I apologise!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would remind you that the sensitivity of Members or even the sensitivity in this House, as far as attacks, especially personal ones, are concerned, is not very great by reminding you of what has already been said here. For example, Mr Brosz, on 4 May. In December 2003, the following words were added: The Helmut, the Kukacka, has a glacial gap in the face. [[Call to the liberals: mad!]] – So I have to say, this is going very well under the belt line! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where's his face, please?]] Mr Brosz took part in the debate on 26 February. May of this year said: Speaking of devil: Here comes Bartenstein! – So I have to say, this is more than apologizing! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Please, where does the Kukacka have his face?]] Mr Jarolim – so that the SPÖ also knows that it is very often in the style – took place on 27 July. January 2004 on the occasion of a emergency: The Amon speaks like a disguised cake piece! – The Amon of the ÖVP. [[Lively cheerfulness of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] So you know, if you distribute, you should be able to plug in and should not be so sensitive! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As I said, I am not apologizing – the Secretary of State has already apologised for himself – but I want to prevent every speaker from coming out of the opposition now and instructing us about how style in Parliament should be. - Everyone should take their own noses. Everyone has already shot at the target, and I think it should also be forgiven to the Secretary of State that he has shot over the target today.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10381	Mrs Silhavy is now speaking. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10399	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Partik-Pablé, you have not achieved that with your speech. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes, I think so. With regard to your statements there is also a lot!]] It may already happen that one shoots at the goal – you are right – but that it is particularly important in the debate on the Health and Women chapter, and above all the way Mr Schweitzer has tried to justify himself. He has sought to justify himself, and has made no excuses. That, I think, is really scandalous, because if anything happens to you, you should also be seriously and respectfully apologised. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But in this form, as Mr Schweitzer, or Mr Schweitzer, the Secretary of State, did, this is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call out to the liberals: A “great” applause!]] Mr Rasinger – in fact, I wanted to talk about health – has spoken today in very large tones, namely “armed Minister for Reform”. Mr Rasinger! This is a self-esteem that does not necessarily need to be shared. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: The “great tones ”?]] – ‘Certain Minister for Reform’. Mr Rasinger, I recommend you read a weekly newspaper, which says – I quote – that: Complex non-reform: Smoke-callat continues to flop. The Federal Health Agency will be at the head of the Health Reform Movement in the future. This politically-occupied body is intended to replace the previous non-work of the Ministry of Health, to take care of targets, budgeting and general guidelines. - Quote. So once the first assessment of this whole piece. It then goes on to explain how it is supposed to be: that the Federal Agency should act on the countries where there are parallel structures and multi-structures which are not at all indicated, and the whole problem is highlighted. So maybe it would be better if you read a simply formulated newspaper article, then you might have more insight into what is behind those words that we are currently hearing – for there are no government documents in this House yet. Second point: The minister has “quited power” was her next statement. – You may have seen in today’s “standard” that“This woman wants to emancipate you,” says today’s “standard”. [[the speaker holds a panel with the image of Federal Minister Rauch-Kallat, the title “This woman wants to emancipate you” and several prohibition signs to the height]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Under the belt line!]] – Made by the Trafians! Now, although I support this with the history of tobacco – so that it doesn't go in the wrong direction – but on the topic of “debtling” – I didn't do that, I would like to say something: [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: But under the belt line...!]] There is a template here in the house for the redesign of the main association, which you have decided unconstitutionally here in the house – for better knowledge, I say, because we have always made you aware of it. - Good. What's the minister doing? – She wants to construct the main association in such a way that he clearly has a black majority again. What does the Minister do about the country platforms now? – She separates into a registered doctor and one for hospital financing, where she wants to ensure that she has the appropriate majority again. Mrs Minister, are there all the cash registers inside, or are the checkouts that account for 80 percent of the contributions, as Mr Grünewald mentioned, those that have the say there? – That’s also a question. It is therefore again behind this whole concept of political overtonement à la ÖVP. And this should also be said quite openly here. In addition, I would be really interested – and we have not heard that from you, Mrs. Minister –: How much money will flow into the structural pot, if always talked about structures?– In part, the previous speakers have already explained that structural changes cannot be expected in fact, but structural problems are still further defined in the future. That's terrible, that's actually not a good contribution. Moving responsibility – and this is not a relinquishing of power – to countries, if they do not cope with the money to increase the cost of duty, has nothing to do with loss of power at all. This has to do with non-perception of responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to address Mr Oellinger's request. Mr Oellinger, even though the government cannot change the legal situation regarding the Chamber of Workers – that is a matter of this House – I give you full rights in terms of content. That's exactly this form of revanchism: Where you do not have a majority, you simply try to limit the ideas and the possibility of presenting yourself in a democratic society. This is behind your policy, and we despise it.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10515	The next speaker is Mrs Heller. Desirable time: 3 minutes. [[Abg. Silhavy talks to the Federal Minister for Smoking.]] I ask the colleague at the government bank not to turn his back on the speaker. Mrs Silhavy! If you come up to the government bank and talk to Mrs. Minister, please do not turn your back on the speaker – no matter who it is. Now begin the 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10545	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Allow me to refer to Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's speech. I am a farmer, I really have to say here that this comparison of the financial resources spent on the pig database and the goat database is not only unworthy of the financial resources spent on women's affairs, but I also have to say that it is a totally inappropriate comparison, because the funds that flow into this pig database and goat database are funds that contribute mainly to food safety. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That was no comparison! That wasn't a comparison!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Did you listen?]] This is a demand from consumers who wanted to make this sector more transparent. This requirement is intended to ensure that there is a documentation on how to work in this area. That's not a call from farmers. There is also no use of this money as a support for farmers' families, but it is used exclusively for this documentation, which is ultimately required by consumers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They also referred to the development of the budget for women's affairs. I would like to give you the exact data here since 1995. You know, at the time, Minister of Women Barbara Prammer was responsible for women's affairs, in any case at the time the finances for the women's budget were in her competence. In 1995, this budget amounted to €3,302 million, then €3,225 million in 1996, and €3,225 million in 1997, i.e. a downturn in the budget. So in your competence, while you, the SPÖ, had to manage the women's affairs, even the women's budget was shortened. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That was no...!]] That's actually the way it is. Only in 1998 did you increase slightly again, in 1999 there was a budget of € 4.290 million, which was increased by a budget breach law. But I've been looking at it. With this increase in budget, no women's projects were supported, but we found ourselves in one election year at the time. I think you used these money in that direction at the time. [[Mr Gradwelt and Mr Heinisch-Hosek.]] From the year 2000, when skills on women's affairs changed, a budget increase was in fact recorded and there were €5 million for the budget for women's affairs inside. In 2001, there was a slight decline to €4.8 million, and in 2002 an increase to €4.955 million. From 2003 onwards, the Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat was responsible for the women's budget, and there was €5.44 million. There's never been that much before! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For 2004 and 2005 there is also a correspondingly good assurance of the women's budget, an increase in 2005 to €6.05 million. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: See how many projects are locked!]] This high budget will continue in 2006. This is how women's policies look budgetaryly, so that they can also be put in place. I would like to point out to you that Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat has also set up a women's service centre for migrants. There's never been anything like that before. They did not remember that this is really necessary in this way and that the funds are very well placed for that. I congratulate Mrs Frau-Kallat on her work in the area of women, but also on her work in the field of health policy. I would particularly like to congratulate her on today's positive conclusion of the health financing package, which could be decided throughout the financial balance.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10643	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10661	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, I have just been following the negotiations during the last few weeks, which should actually have come out and what has really come out under the rule. Mrs. Minister, your ideals, which you had, that the health care is centrally controlled from the federal side, are over, the countries have now again received more room than they had before. And this is at the expense of the patients. Mrs. Minister, you have said that you are more or less the patron for quality assurance in Austria – you are now nagging for it. But if I look at your response to the questions raised by the Committee on Budgets, where I asked you what measures you will take for the barrier-free use of health care, I have to say you will write me back: Questions of accessibility to health care facilities fall within the competence of the countries as matters of construction law. That means that this issue is no longer important to you. [[Federal Minister for Smoking: That's not true!]] Mrs. Minister! It is not just about one level, it is not just about a lift, it is more about the right to health benefits for people with disabilities. And this claim, Mrs. Minister, is quite simple for these people. Mrs. Minister! It is in your hand to help shape which doctor's practices are given, how this affects the score system, but it seems no longer important to you. I have really believed that it is important to you, but this your answer has made me lose my faith in this direction. I can also show you that I've already shown it to others who just shook their heads. Mrs. Minister, you know very well that special mobility-affected people usually need much more intensive and more regular a doctor, a therapy, an examination than others who are not disabled. But for us it is not even more difficult to get any treatment in any form. I'm trying to show you another example. I've done this a hundred times, but it doesn't seem to work. Mrs. Minister! It doesn't help me if I have five minutes away from my apartment a practical doctor, but I can't consult him because I'm expecting steps on my way to his practice. Mrs. Minister! It doesn't matter to me if I get a transfer certificate during the health examination that I should go to mammography if there is no single mammography device, with which I can also do this examination in sitting. Mrs. Minister! It does not help me, for example, if I go to bone density measurement, how women should do it from a certain age – and I also belong to that – if there is simply no device that can do this. It is not possible to make a lung X-ray as a person with disabilities. A lung X-ray is not a medical invention that has only been made in the last two years, but this investigation method has been available for decades – but not for us, Mrs. Minister. There's hardly any way for us to go to a dentist. There are hardly any possibilities for us to use physiotherapy either. I'm telling you, too, why: If we want to take advantage of physiotherapy, we have to do so in the hospitals' ambulatorys; otherwise, it is nowhere. You know very well, if I have to go to an ambulance today, which is set up for 30 minutes each time, another therapist comes each time and takes the anamnese first, then only 15 minutes remain. Then the date is over again, and you actually went on and off longer than you were treated. Mrs. Minister! This is also part of the quality of health care. This is an essential part of the quality of health care. This part just isn't being edited, it's not seen like that. This is a very strong piece for us people with disabilities, because we simply have the duty to take care of our health care, and because we have the right to be treated accordingly if we are ill. I do not know, Mrs Minister, what you offer us in your quality package, whether this also brings people with disabilities. I have not seen anything yet, but I expect you not only to tell us something, but also to act and to improve the situation for people with disabilities, because at present, Mrs. Minister, she is disastrous. I'm trying to make this clear to you by another example. There is the so-called patient charter. Everything quite nice, but essential points for people with disabilities are simply missing. It is not obvious that if someone is deaf, he can also be informed accordingly or communicate with the doctor. Nor is it of course that blind people can read their findings because they are not so prepared that they are made readable to blind people as well. It is not even natural for a sick room in which someone who is blind is knocked at the door. The person concerned doesn't know who's in the room and what he's doing. Mrs. Minister! It is also not natural that when wheelchair drivers are in the hospital, the wheelchair remains in the room. 90 percent of the wheelchairs are removed from the room. Do you know what that means to me? – This is probably the same physical and emotional load for me, as if you were put in a mesh bed, because you do not come out of a mesh bed alone. And if my wheelchair isn't with me, I don't have that chance either. Maybe I can't do it right now, but I just have to have this part of me – and not in the hospital's depot. Mrs Minister, these are things that sometimes cost nothing, but simply require a piece of sensitivity and attention and also a piece of responsibility to those concerned or patients. I really miss that on long distances. I can guarantee you – you will know this in part – that people with disabilities will have to go to the care of a stationary care, which is associated with enormous fears, but not with fears that treatment might go wrong – we are as good or as badly served as non-inhibited – but these are just fears that the staff, the environment speaks against us there. And that does not make the situation easier for us, but extremely difficult! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why I ask you, Mrs Minister – there are only so small things that would be so important to us – that these minimum requirements will finally reach out to us and that we do not always have to beg for things that are of course for others. I expect this, and I would like it, Mrs Minister, to be in the interests of those with disabilities and disabled people in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10706	The next speaker is Mr Lichtenegger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10724	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! In order to be able to conclude this perhaps: If you already see it as a personal insult, if it is said that you have nothing to do with sports, I have to say: Then the sport here in Parliament has already brought it far! And that's why I can get something good out of this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Do you start with it?]] In general, you have to say... [[Abg. Silhavy: This is immense!]] - What's the big deal? [[Abg. Reheis: It was embarrassing enough what the State Secretary said!]] If you are so sensitive and always light it off from this side, then no human can really do something about it. One has to say in general, if one has followed the debate in this way, then the whole afternoon was actually not the “tricker”. This may be because there is little interest in health, what I do not accept, or it may be that in itself there is great support for the whole package of health reform. One has also heard from the first speaker, Mr Gusenbauer, that he can see and discover a lot of potential in all the measures we are taking here. The only criticism that he can really make – and that is what he can do via press release Mr Brettenthaler – is that one cannot really see something there. That is why the interest in this whole health story is obviously not very great. There have been long negotiations, everything has been well done. Then, however, Mr Lacner comes out and says that the FPÖ will collapse again. – That’s not right, that can’t be! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lacner.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You can't fall by anymore, you're already lying!]] In this case, we cannot fall by the fact that Mr Häupl and Mr Gusenbauer are already there. It's not that we're falling around. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But thank God, it must be said that it was not we who have virtually raised the entire health reform. That's because the saviour came from the south. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Here you go!]] Does anyone know who that is? Does anyone know the name of this savior? - Nobody dares say that. But it wasn't Jörg Haider, here it says: “Preventing the increase of the recipe fee – clear Carinthian SPÖ success”. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Thank you, Peter Ambrozy!]] Thank God, I thought that the health reform would have really failed if there had not been Mr Ambrozy. So in this respect, you can say: Let us all be glad that it has been so that the whole health reform has reached a broad agreement! We know that we have not missed our goal that we have worked well that the whole package, health policy in general, works in the right direction with us. What's happening? – A few points have already been said: Health research, a revolutionary tool to make progress in prevention, is better done in so far as from next year each can go to health research free of charge. There are 20 million € more, a total of 82 million € next year for health, for the precautionary examination, for active prevention. The increase in the health insurance contribution by 0.1 percent is also only a transitional solution until the entire structural reform is finally taken over, and then countries have been encouraged to make real use of these structures and make changes. Another project is to reach a higher quota for generics, to reach 20 percent. I believe that we need to make some contribution to this in a technical way, to create a few more incentives. In general, you can say: The prescription fee has not been increased. Valorization is not an increase in this sense. The increase in tobacco tax by 18 cents – a nice poster has been shown here before – has absolute legitimacy, in my opinion, because if some 2.3 million Austrians smoke – I say this completely valueless – of which 800 000 are nicotine addicts, and the cigarette smoke contains about 4,000 chemicals, which also means that some 14 000 people in Austria die of tobacco consumption annually, then it is quite legitimate to try to intervene a little taxy. Overall, this means that, according to estimates – and this is also said by the main association of social security funds – additional costs of around € 2 billion, namely more economic costs. That is why, I believe, it is necessary to take steps already now to counter this already in order to achieve positive effects in the financing of the health system, because it will not be easier in the future. That's why I think we're on a good path. We are ready at any time to work on this constructively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10847	The next speaker is Mrs Stadlbauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e10866	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! No, I will not draw a conclusion from this debate! I can't spare you to go back to the Causa Schweitzer, because you just don't understand what it's all about. Mr Schweitzer has had an incredible anti-female derailment here, has not apologised for it, and the President, who held the presidency at that time, namely President Prinzhorn, has not even given him an order of order! [[Abg. Dolinschek: What did he say?]] Every time a cell phone rings, there's a call for order, but there's none for such anti-female derailments! But what is much more disturbing to me is the fact that women's minister, smoke-callat, has been silently sitting here, while observing the situation, has not said a single sentence. – Is this the solidarity of women that ÖVP and FPÖ women call for?- Oh, my God! Shame for this situation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Rauch-Kallat.]] Now a word on the health package. You wanted to be partyed today. The pattern of action of this government is once again wonderful to see: First, 200 percent deterioration in the negotiations and then say: The FPÖ is standing across, we are still negotiating this! and the result is a hundred percent deterioration. The ÖVP now presents this as if everything was not as bad anyway, the FPÖ has fallen once again, and under the rule remains that people in Austria are being burdened. – This is your tactic, which draws like a red thread through your entire politics, from the front to the back, and that becomes visible here again! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] Now to the women's budget. I want to clean up a legend in advance, with the legend that the women's budget has been increased. – If we take the funds from the previous year, we add the resources of the Women's Principle Department of the Ministry of Economics... – Listen [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is a cooking recipe now?]] Now, at least you'll learn to count on me! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Can I learn something from you? I'm worried!]] If we take the money from the previous year, we add the resources of the Women's Principle Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which was still its own area last year, then we will get the 2005 funds. And that's what you call an increase?- Oh, my God! – That’s a stagnation in the best case, real it’s cuts! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second legend: There are no cuts in women's associations. – Four current examples: 11 percent reduction in women's helpline; Women's Service Graz celebrates 20th anniversary and fears financial cuts because you have already been informed about it; LILIT before the start, Kremser Frauenprojekt is threatened by enormous cuts in his existence. A fourth example has already been brought by colleague Weinzinger. – That means, these are legends! That's just not true, and that's what you have to listen to, and that's what we have to tell women! Next Topic: Gender budgeting – a thing that might have been well meant, but which was made very bad, because what the individual ministries have delivered under Gender Budgeting is really adventurous. There is absolutely no strategy, there is a mess between women-related measures and gender mainstreaming, in short: It's right in the back and in the front! – But what do you say, Mrs. Minister? They say only in committee: Hoppala, the ministerial officials should have understood something wrong! But that's not the point! It's about you missing something there that you said something wrong! It is your responsibility to ensure that the situation of women in Austria improves, that there is a sufficient budget for women! You cannot always postpone this responsibility. This is also the very big difference between you and the former women's ministers, who put the SPÖ: Dohnal, Konrad, Prammer have always felt responsible for the interests of women, even if the expertise is situated in other areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lentic]] The women's affairs have been driven forward by women's ministers! In gender budgeting, we do not reinvent the wheel, there are many foreign examples! On this point too, Mrs Minister, you said in the Committee that: They cannot find these examples and that the officials cannot work on them. Mrs Minister, I'm telling you: Look at your own homepage, then you'll see that there's everything in it! Push You don't always want your own political diswill on the officials who would work very well if you just leave them, but take responsibility yourself! Mrs. Minister, you call yourself Minister of Women! – You are not worth wearing this title! [[Abg. May. Control: Please! That's a scandal!]] [[Further violent calls to the ÖVP.]] Put him back! That would simplify the whole thing, and it would be more honest. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11032	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. Speaking time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11050	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Oellinger, you already know – and our Minister of Health has repeatedly pointed out in the Committees – that it is not about saving in the health system, but about reducing costs. [[Abg. Oils: To freeze!]] This means that the increase in costs is not frozen but reduced. The forecast increase for the next few years was 9 per cent, and this increase in costs will eventually be reduced to 4 to 5 per cent. However, this should be done without loss of quality and in remote areas. On your motion for a resolution, Mr Colleague, on the working capacity of the Chamber of Labour, I should like to say to you: Don't worry about it! [[Abg. Oils: already!]] These cuts of resources do not take place! – However, in social-democratic chambers, it is not always clear whether the funds are actually used in accordance with the objectives of the law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now to the health sector. – In the Annual Report 2003 of the “Healthy Austria” Fund, it is to be read that a focus is on mental health. Experts estimate that around a quarter of the adult population suffers from psychogenic fluctuations and diseases. According to WHO, depression will be one of the most common diseases in addition to cancer and cardiovascular disease by 2020. Reading the male health report from the Federal Ministry of Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection, you can see the different ways of dealing with men and women with their health, with problems and situations of life. Psychiatrically ill people are subject to an increased risk of suicide. About 1,500 people die per year in Austria on average in recent years – compared to this, the number of fatalities is about 930. In the Western world, three times as many men die of suicide as women, but women have far more suicide attempts because they have a communicative, namely, appealing, character; Men are looking for more uncompromising death. – That is why I am glad that the Healthy Austria Fund and Minister of Health Maria Rauch-Kallatum are particularly accepting the topic of “Psychian Health”. This money in the budget is a hundred percent well-informed. But how does Erwin Ringel, the great Austrian psychiatrist, actually come to this narrow, channelled view of the person concerned, that he sees no way out for himself? As has been said, the view of things and thus the possibilities for solutions are increasingly narrowed. I have been here in the House for almost two years now during debates. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, what feeling is broad when you – not different from all, some colleagues; I would like to expressly hold on to this – usually all that comes from the government parties is called bad if the future is described as sad and disastrous for the population?- Oh, my God! That is why my appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen from the opposition parties: Let us assume our responsibility for the mood in Austria! Without denying reality, let us give people hope and positive prospects for the future! The implementation of this request does not cost the health system a cent, but is, I hope, not for nothing, because – and I am convinced of this – positive perspectives increase the well-being of the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11119	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Gabriele Moser. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11137	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Even today, funding has been a major point of discussion in the debate on the health system. Mrs Minister, have you ever considered that a large proportion of health costs are also caused by road accidents? You know that, if accidents at work are to be paid, AUVA is very likely to be used to ensure that social security does not in any way bear the full amount of costs. In the case of traffic accidents, Mrs Minister – I am now on the transport sector – social security is the only paying agency. Sure – what do you call that? – for damage caused by accidents is already paid. [[Interference of Federal Minister Rauch-Kallat.]] Yeah, well, that's what damages are. – But the pure treatment costs, the rehabilitation costs et cetera, all of which bear social security. If you increase taxes on tobacco products, then act as a 'polluter pays' principle. Why does the 'polluter pays' principle not apply in this area? It would certainly be possible to make bigger sums available to health care without any more social weaknesses in financing. Financing would probably be carried out through a higher insurance premium for car insurance, but this would be more relevant. This would be the same as for smokers who now have to pay more for cigarettes, thereby contributing to the health risks they cause. – That was the thought of the transport sector. Another thought, Mrs. Minister, which results from my consumer protection agents: They have repeatedly stressed that prevention is also an essential aspect to avoid health costs in order to increase and also ensure quality of life. You know, an essential aspect of precautionary care is also nutrition. Wrong nutrition is often the cause of diseases, especially chronic diseases. Bad foods are also an aspect that can be controlled by the public authorities and where you can also save costs with an appropriate, good food control agency. This food control, Mrs Minister, is half in your hand and half in the hand of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. You already know from our previous budget debate that the funding of food control, the food investigation in Austria in 2007, will be really bankrupt. We talked about it last year, but nothing has been improved since then. This year you shot seven million more. [[Federal Minister of Smoking Call: This is a nice money!]] Yes, for this year, for 2004. For 2005 you take over the entire BSE research costs, including the AGES. But the financial security of food control, the laboratories, the AGES, are extremely dangerous from 2006 onwards. That must have been said to you by Dr. Url, that is certainly what the second managing director, Dr. Frühauf, has already submitted to you. But you and Dr. Herzog, in your cabinet, are negotiating too weakly with the Minister of Finance, and on the line remains food safety and thus an aspect of health care. There you are, please, saved in the wrong place. Talk to the Minister for Finance again! It is necessary – I said it to Minister Pröll this morning – that per Austrian and Austrians will be used for food control and food safety every year. Mrs Minister, you must finally become more active in the most appropriate field. Above all: You can't see that on the spot, in the individual capitals, the former research institutes are simply locked up and everything is concentrated in Vienna and Innsbruck. This suffers from the quality of the sample investigation, including the know-how, and the skills we acquired in the individual research institutes, in Graz, in Klagenfurt, in Salzburg or in Linz, which disappear! Mrs Minister, you really have the full responsibility, if possible, to return to food scandals in the near future, because the control mechanism is simply undermined. I believe that this importance of food control and food safety is also undermined in this budget. You have not been able to make this clear to the Minister of Finance. That's where you really have to make up for something you've missed in the past. Mrs Minister, take these two suggestions with you, and above all with regard to financing with any contributions from car insurance!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11196	The next speaker is Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. 3 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11217	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Austria has an excellent health system, and we benefit from it's medical progress. Our great goal is therefore to preserve it and to ensure full access to it for all – from baby to old people. The ideas and initiatives set out in the health reform are forward-looking: Savings through structural reforms on the one hand, so that on the other hand, we can pay for the large medical offer for all – I would like to mention the growing group of older people. But it must also be clear to all of us that a reform, a rethinking must also take place in our own minds, at different levels. We live in a button press company. Button press – the lift goes up or down. Press the button – the computer creates a virtual world. Press the button – a television world is emerging in front of us. We're degrading our body to a static element – but we're movement people! Self-reliance and a new body consciousness that needs to be developed so that we can really take advantage of it to the miracle body is a command of the hour. Then we can also distinguish what we really need in medical aid, but where we can also become active ourselves. exercise, proper nutrition, best not to smoke, no increased alcohol consumption and timely precautions make it possible for us to stay healthy for as long as possible. Each of us knows that. It's logical, it's illuminating, but the implementation, the doing is hard for all of us. I therefore welcome the introduction of the health care passport for young people from 18 to 18 years of age. Year of life, for the unemployed and for the elderly, which will bring a reminder towards prevention from 2005 onwards. Today, by the way, only 13 percent of Austrians go to the precautionary examination, which is free of charge. In this context, I would like to thank, in the European Year of Education through Sport, for the “Fit for Austria” initiative launched by State Secretary Karl Schweitzer and for the €700 000 budgetary resources available for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to thank the fact that this action is already under way in the early years and then continues with the school youth, the unemployed and the elderly. If you develop joy and lust for physical exercise in all young years, you will never want to give up this feeling, but also the control of the body. I can therefore only appeal that we will actually implement all these directives or take up this task. The health reform says it is a huge step towards ensuring this health system, which makes us very satisfied with more than two thirds of the population. Each of us benefits from it, and each of us should contribute to what he can do in a healthy way. I congratulate the Federal Minister on the successful negotiations for this reform and wish that she would remain healthy for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11281	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11299	Ladies and gentlemen! The content is a little confused. Unfortunately, this is in the structure of the matter. In the short period of time, comments on three women's policy points: First point: Mrs Bundesminister, you spoke about sustainable financial security for women's projects, particularly in the field of violence. – Something can't go out of it, because, as I get along with representatives of such initiatives on the one hand and representatives of the city of Vienna on the other, it is so that these projects don't get through with the means, partly don't know how to proceed soon, and therefore try to do more at national level, because they are increasingly abandoning the Federation. I hope it's really a concern to you – but then you obviously have to rework the means or whatever. Anyway, something's not going on. Second point: You, Mrs Minister, spoke about sustainable retirement insurance, which is guaranteed for women. – I don’t know what pension reform is about They are speaking here, but it cannot be the ones we are currently discussing in this House, because everything that happens as a result of this reform will lead to the end effect that 80 percent of women at the age will move at the poverty line in the future. The situation is already dramatic enough today. I can point out that today's women's pensions are on average at €618 gross, the female workers' pensions at €490. If we are still calculating the cuts that will be safe – I only refer to the extension of the calculation period. measure on the entire lifetime – this bit, which is changed in the accounting of child care, cannot make up for the loss. Women's pensions will thus be cut by this reform blatantly, even if you do a little bit in the accounting of child care periods. These years include what was not the case with a calculation of 15, 18 years. Third and last point – we have also discussed this problem in the Committee on Budgets –: The issue is that the protection against termination is shorter than the period of reference of the child's allowance. They replied in writing in the same way at the time, namely that: You see in it an incentive to get back in. So I don't see this when I look at the women who are now surprised and who feel it more like slipping out of work than an incentive to stay in the profession. I held a balance as the most important measure. If you do not plan what I think is politically bad and very sorry, then it is at least necessary in two points to put on the levers that you correctly address in the written answer: One is the obligation to provide information. However, I would not assume that a volunteer is a volunteer, but I would be in favour of a legal obligation for the companies to inform the female workers in good time that this deadline expires. And the second point is the limit of merit. Here, you think everything is enough. I don't think so! Especially when it comes to the later retirement every year, it is necessary to change and increase the limit of merit.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11347	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11366	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to thank you, also as the councillor of a small rural community and as a representative of a rural district with a relatively small structured hospital, for the fact that this health package could now be completed in the context of the financial compensatory negotiations. This is very important for rural areas and for that my sincere thank you! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have an excellent health system, and this also benefits our people. We have a leading position in the European Union: We are second behind Finland, and we should be proud of that! According to study, most of the Austrian population is very satisfied with our health system. Over 80 percent of the population enjoy health care, which is one of the best in the world. Germany has 50 percent, Greece has only 18 percent. In order to ensure the best quality in health for our population in the future, we need to ensure financial viability. Prevention and health care also play a very important role in this. This point in the Health chapter is especially important to me. More than € 61 million is expected for health care. It is a fundamental idea of our government parties that we should, as it were, rethink health and get away from purely repair thinking in terms of health promotion and health care. I would therefore like to thank you for the measures planned, especially for the health promotion programmes, and for the information society. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Actions such as project weeks on health care and accident prevention at Austria's primary schools and AHS schools from 2006 on, I would like to highlight particularly positively. Especially with the civilisation diseases of our time, such as heart attack and cancers, there is an approach – and I am glad that there is now the “precaution investigation”. It is new that in the future it is not only about early detection, but also about information and support for health promotion measures. This offer of investigation and advice is free of charge. Of course, it will cost the state a little bit. Experts expect about € 20 million more per year, depending on the growth rate. But I am sure – and I suppose that we agree – that these expenditures can only be supported. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a good day today, we have a good health budget, and I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11420	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. 5 minutes welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11438	Mr President. High house! Dear Mrs. Minister for Animal Protection in Spee! I change the subject and come to a task area that will take you from 1st. ==References====External links== We have already learned from a previous speaker today that the teaching of this is not so fast-paced, compared to the women's budget still at a similar low level. I would just ask you to tell me about the exact budget: In the written reply to the Budget Committee question, you informed me that the budget would amount to €3 900 000. Today you have spoken of €3 500 000. Is there still a serious dispute over 400 000 euros, or is there just a mistake in writing? The fact is that we were able to celebrate a comparatively large throw with the Federal Animal Protection Act this summer, before the summer – we were also happy to celebrate it! – that it has become silent since then and in the background the creeping out of the achievements has already begun violently, especially on the part of the stakeholders who were against it from the beginning. I just mention as an example that we are trying to reverse a compromise that has been reached in genuinely tough negotiations on how to adhere to the regulation by means of a slight, subtle transformation. I would, however, like to focus above all on an up-to-date example. It is currently on the order of the animal protection ombudsmen. The establishment of animal welfare ombudsmen, to be available in every federal state, was part of the great success of the Animal Protection Act. It was remembered and also clearly held by all four parties in such a way that it should become a lawyer comparable to the environmental attorney's office or the youth prosecutor's office, i.e. an independent body with at least one donation as a work budget, so that one can actually do something that can be used for the interests of animal welfare and has certain powers. How does it look now? First of all, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not consider it necessary to give the countries some mandatory recommendations on how the order should be made, whether one would freely select someone from the previous civil service, whether one would write out internally, whether one would write out externally. As one does, it is completely left to the countries that also exploit this, especially in the EIA-dominated federal states, but also the FPÖ-dominated Carinthia is not entirely without it; I will come to talk about what one hears. In view of the central role as a response function for civil society, I particularly liked the justification of the state government in Tyrol for why it is only used internally. I can only put this to the heart of the Tyrolean Members, ladies and gentlemen. It can be heard from Tyrol that there are very few people in Tyrol with the required qualifications and these people in Tyrol are employed by the Tyrolean state government. The required qualifications are mentioned – that is what the law says – that one has a training in veterinary medicine or soil culture or zoology, with additional qualification in animal welfare. Does that really mean that in Tyrol all the people who have studied veterinary medicine or soil culture or zoology and also have some idea of animal welfare, work in the state government, or that there is no one in the whole of Tyrol except the four or five who might do so, no veterinarian, no veterinarian who knows about animal welfare and does not work in the Tyrolean state government? – Don’t be angry, but that’s a little bit flat! It does not look much better in a number of other federal states, such as Vorarlberg, Burgenland or Salzburg, where no external tender was made. It is only Vienna and Lower Austria that make an open tender that can be drawn out positively. However, at least one hears from the rumour kitchens that one can trust in or not, that at least in Lower Austria already names are traded, which staff or staff member from the Office of Veterinary Directorate will be. For Vorarlberg, the same thing is not to be ruled out, so someone from the Veterinary Directorate, who is already responsible for the implementation deficit, whose activity might, in part, be to be checked by an animal protection ombudsman, be the animal protection ombudsman, according to the motto: [[Call the ÖVP: Where is there a “full-ang deficit”?]] In the morning I am a veterinary director/inmate, in the afternoon I control myself as an animal protection ombudsman. It really can't work like this! And I appeal to the seriousness of the ÖVP, which is hopefully still given to secure a clean order and procedure. My special case is Carinthia. Carinthia shot the bird. In Carinthia, you can of course order internal, without tendering procedures, an animal protection ombudsman – that a woman is ordered would still be happy – and: cost-neutral! In fact, this national government proposal explicitly states: No additional costs for the budget, the person will be ordered volunteerly, will receive zero Euro, zero cent work budget, but will be employed at ten hours a week. I am still going to have to explain how this is going to be done by law, but I really think that this is a chuzpe and I can only urge the freedom-loving colleagues who have made themselves strong for the animal protection Ombudsman to talk to the Carinthian colleagues once again. That can't be: Honorary service obligations for animal protection and no money want to take control is really the last! [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Wittauer.]] One last, current point I'm just speaking to briefly, I can't do it any closer, the miser would probably take half an hour: Gänserndorf, the monkey project, the “retired” animal experiment monkeys in Gänserndorf. – Your future is more than uncertain. The reason why I am addressing this is that both the Republic, which has unlawfully approved the import of a part of these monkeys from Sierra Leone, and the country of Lower Austria as a location as well as some other actors, act according to the motto: And then nobody wants to have been! Then it doesn't matter! I can only urge both the Federation and the State of Lower Austria to bring about a solution that is animal protection-friendly and does not mean: [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven:... wrong!]] The mass manager or the competent authority thereafter shall proceed to euthanasisation of the monkeys. So here please a little more commitment to animal welfare!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11496	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11515	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs. Stadlbauer, which officials and employees are not allowed to work in the ministry? – They have accused our Federal Minister of not letting her officials work. To the left and right of the government bank you sit, you can question these ladies. I would really be interested in who is not allowed to work. Show me a boss who doesn't let her employees work! I haven't experienced such a thing in person yet. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Even if you still defend yourself like this: Since the start of this Federal Minister, the women's budget has increased by 20.1 percent. That's legible, Mrs. Stadlbauer! Despite savings, many improvements have been made for women. However, I am not talking about the childcare allowance in which you, ladies and gentlemen, voted against by the opposition parties. Believe me, your voters can still not believe that! If you vote against this budget today, you will vote against the women, you should be aware of that too! This child care allowance is a positive thing, Mrs. Weinzinger – in her first speech she has echoed about the childcare allowance. The central concern for women in recent years is and has been child care! That too is a fact that we should all be aware of. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] This childcare allowance takes a certain amount of financial pressure from both mothers and fathers. And many women's policy concerns are not at all reflected in the actual budget chapter. The tax reform, for example, relieves women, in particular, by means of the collective bargaining system. The incomes of up to €14 500 were completely tax-free, which in turn helps in particular those women who earn little or only work part-time. Pension harmonisation is also important for women, because it accounts for four and no more than two years in child care, and the real basis for this contribution has even been doubled to €1 350! Some women don't even deserve that much. The slogan says: Seven years are enough! – It has not yet been possible for women to retire after seven years of work and with the corresponding insurance years. With you from SPÖ you could not even discuss a scheme over ten years when you remember. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that women's policy is actually far beyond the corresponding budget chapter! It has always been one of my central demands that women's policy should not be understood as a political playing field for Gags and by-products, but always in conjunction with other subjects. [[Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Krainer.]] The actionism of Mrs Dohnal and Mr Prammer was very funny, but only for the media. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What kind of actionism, please?]] Women have done absolutely nothing under the rule, except a women's popular desire, and that's because the SPÖ ministers have done nothing further. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's incredible!]] That's the truth! This federal government is doing this differently now, therefore a compliment to our women's minister Maria Rauch-Kallat. This budget is women-friendly. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Hallelujah!]] And the argument against it is becoming increasingly difficult for you!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11621	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11640	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think my previous speaker has forgotten or confused the facts. First of all, it must be made clear that family policy is not a women's policy, it is a very separate policy. And especially Mrs. Federal Minister Dohnal and also Mrs. Federal Minister Prammer were fully involved in the fact that we were so far ahead in the field of equal treatment policy in Austria. You from the Federal Government are now trying to turn this back! That's how the situation looks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now on my real issue, on the budget. Sad to say, only €623 million, less than one percent of the total budget, has been made available by the Federal Minister of Finance for Chapter 17, Health and Family. Now I've heard a hundred thousand times from you that women's policy is a cross-sectional matter: It would be nice if it were really! But it depends on how big the cross-section is. If the cross-section isn't even a millimeter, then I'm looking at this cross-sectional policy! It must be ensured that adequate resources are made available to women everywhere! - To your cross-sectional matter. Now let's take a look at this: Of the €623 million, only €3.55 million for 2005. That's not even 88 cents per woman in Austria! This is not even a hundredth for more than half of the Austrian population, as measured by the total budget! This also means, among other things, that as important facilities as women's advisory services cannot be established throughout the country, as is the case with the family advisory services. So women's advisory facilities will continue to remain badly protected, and this, of course, means that the women employed there – and this is a big problem that you have not yet seen – are totally insecure and are also afraid of how their existence continues. So, Mrs Federal Minister, I cannot spare you the accusation that you have not fulfilled your homework! I also have to say critically that the questions asked you in the Committee on Budgets, whether they concerned women or health, were only very superficially answered. Health policy is a very special stepchild. The taxes – I told you already in the House – in the context of social health insurance will amount to at least €400 million in 2005. This represents a percentage of 0.2 of GDP. However, only 0.1 percent of the budget is foreseen. That means: The numbers are beautifully colored, and my suspicion that the sick will now be burdened again has been confirmed. Another two thirds are bound by legal obligations in the health budget, i.e. they are not available for an active health policy. Mrs. Federal Minister! In your policy, there is hardly any solution to the problem of financing in the health system! Especially in the last few days, there have been the most succinct remarks as to how to finance health policy. Alternative health funding has been sought, and proposals on this alternative health funding have clearly come from one direction. There was talk of “carb money. ” Today they say they didn't mean it that way. It is not uninteresting, however, that the representatives of the FPÖ were just asked to think about freezing the chamber. It is no coincidence that this has come from the representatives of the FPÖ, and I would like to explain to you why I come to this conclusion. Mr Walch, perhaps a few figures will help you a little bit on the jumps. – Tyrol: 63.7%, Salzburg: 63.4 percent, Lower Austria: 56.8 percent, Vorarlberg: 50.9%. I could continue the number series. Do you know what numbers these are, Mr Walch, Mr Dolinschek? You know that? – These are the percentages your party has lost during the last working chamber elections! That's how it looks! [[Abg. Neudeck: Walch got 98.6 percent in his works council election! You have to do that once!]] De facto you lost more than half in all federal states, with the exception of Carinthia, as it was only 15 percent. In the federal states of Salzburg and Tyrol have However, they suffered losses of up to two thirds. So it is right to say that the workers in this country have given you a clear defeat. – You are not the party of the little man, and that you do not represent the little woman, we have just noticed during this discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! So that's not about it. I would like to take the opportunity to tell you that this Chamber of Labour last year has carried out more than 2 million deliberations, that the Chambers of Labour have recovered more than € 284 million for the members throughout Austria, and that a major focus is placed on health policy and prevention measures in the discussions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] So that means: The Chamber of Labour is indeed an important instrument of Austrian workers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In view of this, I say quite clearly: We stand by our Chamber of Workers, and we stand on our very balanced social partners' policy! But we are also on our health system. Ladies and gentlemen have already pointed out the appropriate measures. All this and much more distinguish us from the Federal Government. The workers know that. You know how to grab them in your pocket, but the next election day is your payday! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11703	To make an actual correction, honourable Member Mag. Kuntzl. Mrs Colleague, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11725	Mr President. Mrs. Lentsch has previously claimed that you can retire for the first time after seven years. I'm correcting this: You will also need at least 15 years of insurance to retire. Of these, seven years must be out of work, the rest may come from part-time insurance periods such as child training periods. However, on the fact that the 15 years have not changed, and I do not want to talk about the amount of the pension at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11759	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11778	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am only going to address health promotion very briefly in my remarks. I also know that in addition to high-quality medical care for all Austrians, our Federal Minister for Smoking Call is also an important concern for health promotion. I also refer to the large-scale health promotion action to overcome the internal pig dog – in short, called Isch – which concerns nutrition, exercise, stress prevention, prophylaxis and medical care. Health promotion is clearly a way to more quality of life, and as a legal basis for health promotion, the Federal Act, which entered into force in 1998, serves as a legal basis for health promotion. Based on this, the “Healthy Austria” Fund was established as the national body, which promotes practice-related and scientific studies and projects for the preservation, promotion and improvement of health in the general sense. Activities of this Fund include information and information on preventable diseases, development of programmes in municipalities, cities, schools, businesses and public health, as well as support for training and the implementation of conferences such as prevention conferences. For this we have €7.25 million in the budget approach. I think this is a good and balanced budget, and I would like to close with a quote that might invite a little to think and to smile, with a word by Sir Stanley Ford Rous at the considerable age of 90, who said: “If I had ever thought that I was getting so old, I would have paid more attention to my health.” – He said that at the age of 90!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11823	The next speaker is Mrs Fleckl. She too wishes to speak for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11841	Mr President. High house! – Madam Federal Minister for Smoking, unfortunately, is not here.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11857	The Federal Minister enters the room.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11872	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! – Mrs. Achleitner claimed that women’s promotion and gender budgeting are cross-sectional. But I now wonder why all the other ministers are not sitting here on the government bank, but only the woman's minister. I am therefore saying this because I asked a question to the Federal Minister: How do you assess the implementation of gender budgeting in the Ministry of Transport? To that end, the Federal Minister answered me that she is not responsible for the non-implementation of gender budgeting and that she cannot assess it if they have been carried out. I've got this black on white, Mrs. Federal Minister! That is why I am now wondering why the Minister of Transport has not been sitting here and responsible for what measures he has taken or, better said, has not been taken. Let's look at the Ministry of Transport: For the time being, it has painted the FEMtech project, a very important measure to promote women in research and technology. Mrs Bundesminister, have you, even if you are not responsible for it and cannot judge it, perhaps given some thought to what the employment situation for women in rural areas looks like? . We have heard a lot about rural areas today, so I ask you this question here. Mobility is a key factor that has a strong impact on the quality of life and on the way women and people live in rural areas at all. There are no jobs there at the doorstep, and they do not grow on the trees either. In most cases, long journeys must be set aside so that you can reach the workplace at all. We are talking here, above all, of women who have part-time employment if they have a job at all. Most of these women cannot achieve a job at all because mobility in rural regions has been reduced almost entirely due to savings. In this respect, I miss evaluations and real measures! If you stand here and preach the promotion of rural areas and women in rural areas in Sundays, this will certainly not help people there! In the Committee's deliberations, you told me that mobility is also part of the fact that kindergarten buses are available in the communities for the transport of people. – First of all, women cannot ride with kindergarten buses, second, these kindergarten buses will certainly not make people theirs These are measures which only the municipalities or, at the best, the countries pay. Mrs. Minister! I am sorry that the Federal Government is budgeting beyond reality, past the needs of women and past the lives of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11923	The next speaker is Mr Walch. He's got 4 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e11942	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Csörgits, you've been practicing criticism. – Thank you for worrying so much about the free workers because we have not won as much as we imagine in the last elections! But I can tell you: I have given from eight to 17 mandates in Upper Austria at the 1994 Labour Chamber election. There is rain once and once sunshine, and at that time you lost accordingly! They seem to be particularly concerned about the Chamber of Workers! Their speech was, in a sense, a defense speech! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It must be allowed in Austria to think out loud what you do with surpluses. It must be possible, doesn't it? And you can also see the first success: Immediately the workers' chamber jumped on the train and said: We do not keep the money anyway, we give it back to the workers, perhaps with an increase in the educational check. I have already received a few calls from Chamber Presidents who have talked to me about how they can imagine a lot. So there's a success, and that's very good. Today, however, SPÖ chief Dr. Gusenbauer stood here and defended a lot of what he had prevented, or left a press service: Reduced recipe fee increase success of SPÖ. – Mr Dr. Gusenbauer, there's something wrong with that! You must have forgotten something! The Minister of Finance has conducted financial compensatory negotiations with the federal states. I've been following this exactly in the media. There have been reports from some members whether they were from Salzburg, which is said to be SPÖ-dominated, whether from Vienna, among which was also a Financial City Council. Then there was a phone call, and I heard that Dr. Gusenbauer said he had been informed. Only once did he say yes, after three hours did he ever say, and in the early days he said no. – It’s interesting how fast such movements are! Mr SPÖ President! Not you have prevented us from having higher prescription fees or a hospital fee, but the liberals have done so in negotiations with the coalition partner! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This has not succeeded either the SPÖ or the Green or anyone else. Decorate You're not always with foreign feathers! If you had negotiated, we would probably have had these burdens in Austria! But we represent the little man, the citizens. If I hear accusations today specifically from the ladies of SPÖ and also from the Greens in connection with women's policy, I would like to ask you to explore the conscience again. What did you do? – Under my colleague Mr Prammer, the SPÖ, when she was a minister, reduced the care allowance from two years to one and a half years. Wasn't this Mrs Prammer, once Minister was and is now President? Is that another one? I don't think so! I can't remember another one! We have, on the other hand, increased the rent from one and a half years to three years. Who has shortened the family allowance under SPÖ by 100 s? We raised them again! Who introduced the child allowance in Austria? We're with the ÖVP! Who introduced 218 € for multiple births? You voted against it everywhere! Who has introduced the accounting of children's education periods for four years? Not you! Who has the single-earner discount amount retroactively with 1. January 2004 accordingly increased? Not the SPÖ! You even voted against it! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Who has the bounds of the single earners – be careful, otherwise tell her something wrong again! – increased from €4 400 to €6 000? We did it, and you voted against it! Who is making the largest tax reform of the Second Republic in favour of all, but especially of women, because these low incomes are not entirely innocent of what you are doing because you have misnegotiated the negotiations in the field of women's professions? Who makes sure that we relieve them accordingly? We, and you're going to vote against it again! Do not be a speaker's mouth, nor adorn yourselves with strange feathers. You don't believe that any more!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12020	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12038	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Because of my short speaking time, I can only devote myself to a group of women. This is a concern, however, because this group is particularly disadvantaged: I mean the migrants. We know that their social situation is often very difficult, and I would like to say very positively that the extension of measures for migrants is provided for in the Health and Women chapter. However, since integration is also a cross-sectional matter, I not only expect individual projects to be supported and also to be given advice in individual cases, which is undoubtedly important. Rather, I also expect you, Madam Minister, to always, when problems arise and when it comes to the situation of women, to raise your voice and take action with your colleagues in government. I expect this generally in women's affairs and, of course, in migrants' affairs. In this context, it is important to focus on the girls, to help them integrate and to find a self-determined place in society. The training is particularly important here. A study by Wifo shows that the situation is alarming especially in Turkish girls, so I mention this here. I would therefore like to ask you to accept this question, because if we really want to integrate – I think we have to – then it is also your job as Minister of Women to take care of this group of women.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12072	The next speaker is Mr Christ. His speaking time is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12092	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have to take a brief look at Mr Walch's comments. He's always talking about the zigzag course that the SPÖ is driving. – I have to tell you quite honestly, dear Max: rather zigzag drive and avoid depths and obstacles and then go back on course than suffer from the incredibly violent tin solder syndrome you have with certainty! You always announce big negotiations, start murderously in the public, and fall on the quietest windshield like a tin soldier. This is certainly not the way we act. [[Abg. Walch: Health reform!]] We've never fallen by! There's got to be other blowers to get it to shoot us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Small information: Your zigzag course, which you are taking, the FPÖ in the Chamber of Workers in Upper Austria has brought the following status: 8, 17, 11 and 5. [[Abg. Neudeck: 98.6 percent he got!]] There are compassionate people who in the meantime are already discussing the protection of the liberals. They're talking about whether we should not protect them, or they'll be gone next time. [[Abg. Walch: 98.6 percent!]] Six mandates were to be awarded during the works council election in a large company in Ried im Innkreis. Six, unfortunately, have received God's Social Democratic Group, zero of the liberals who have taken place. – So much on the subject: represent the little man and his interests. [[Abg. Neudeck: 98.6 percent has Walch!]] Let's get back to the most important story. [[Abg. Neudeck: colleague, Walch has 98.6 percent!]] Mrs Bundesminister, you have announced many things: active women's policy, raising the female employment rate, equal pay for equivalent work. Much has happened, but women can certainly expect even more. It would be much more to do. We have the highest unemployment rate in the Second Republic, most of which affect women. We have an unemployment rate of 2.4 percent higher than in October last year. [[Abg. Neudeck: 98.6 percent!]] 70 percent of the small employees are women, and God does not all like to work in this employment relationship. I do not need to do more about the disastrous effects of the pension reduction reform. We need specific measures for women to get them out of poverty traps to ensure self-determination and independence. The Socialists have made enough proposals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also urgently need a Women's Foundation in the federal states. I would just like to mention three important Austrian companies: Solvay in Ebensee, Dreefs in Peuerbach, Högel-Shoehe in Schärding. There are many women who have very few prospects for the future, who urgently need help in the form of women's foundations, and there the federal government would be called upon to help. This budget has just left 88 cents for women. We are moving very realistically in the area of very modest sausages. I'm sure that's too little for women. It is rather cynical if you, Mrs Federal Minister, reject our legitimate and necessary criticism, but also the many experts as gejamer. This does not help women, nor does it honor you as a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12208	The next speaker is Mr Spindelberger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12226	Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Crasher Party of the FPÖ! We have heard over and over the last few days that all homework has been done on health reform. But all the answers I have received in connection with the budget requests are, I say, not even worth the paper on which they are written. There are no binding statements on the part of the Ministry as always made at all. And then try quickly, just as it has happened in recent weeks, to get the health reform into the financial compensatory negotiations in order to lull it past Parliament. [[Abg. What does Häupl say?]] The countries and cities are now to be abused to raise funds for your resort, where you have so far failed at all corners and ends. Numbers should be once again the sick people in our country. I can only recommend Mr Walch's motto: Read, think, talk! What happened? – Read exactly once! Through your measures, you have charged the health insurance funds with €1.8 billion, charged Austrians only with €1.5 billion in health insurance through the non-social measures. [[Abg. Walch: SPÖ responsibility – Wiener Landeskrankenkasse!]] What you have done is non-social policy, as it can no longer be annoyed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And then wonder when the SPÖ says stop!Unknown term type: "%s".? Then Mr Rasinger demands a national consensus? - But not with us! 44 loads in three years are enough! But there is nothing wrong with you today either: Let's increase the recipe fee! Could it be a bit more? [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: You can't stand on the gas at the same time and climb on the brake!]] In addition, the total reductions in performance, as we have heard, and the increases in contribution. Because of the lifted policy, I think you have no idea what it means if the sick people now have additional monthly taxes of €20 or €30. Is that supposed to be a balanced policy? - Certainly not! Where is the balanced relationship, Mrs Minister, that you have announced? [[Abg. Neudeck: What did Gusenbauer want before?]] Due to the resistance of the SPÖ and after a few days of the hesitation of the FPÖ, the next downfall against the workers has already come again. You have failed with your previous health policy! Then the Federal Chancellor and FPÖ politician come with their well-known kind: Wess’ bread I eat’, of the’ song I sing’!, but because the Chamber of Workers did not play there, you don’t think of anything wrong but to say: Let's freeze the workers' chamber contributions! Again, you want to achieve that only the workers will be involved in this missing policy, i.e. the non-financing of health care. [[Abg. Scheibner: The employees then pay less contributions!]] Mr Rasinger said that Mrs Bundesminister would go into history. I agree with him, but only because it has transformed the social state into an alms state.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12323	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12357	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The question of whether the financial package for health reform is socially balanced or not has already been raised in recent weeks. The recipe fee is to be increased by 10 cents, the refund of the cost of a glasses replacement is to be removed with the exception of children, persons with high-grade visual impairment and those in need of social protection, for eyeglasses as for you. [[Abg. Scheibner: You decided, Mr. Krainer! Your party has decided in the nineties! Stay with honesty! The Valorization!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You have decided to Valorization, Mr Krainer!]] Third point: The hospital fee is to be increased to €10. That's 60 million euros. But there are also alternatives that we have proposed. One could easily raise the maximum basis not only by 90 € – that costs each of us here in the month almost 4 €, a bit less than 4 € gross. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Gross!]] One could simply raise this by € 270, which would then also bring € 60 million more. This wouldn't cost any of us here even 10 € – gross. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Gross!]] Now the conversion takes place as always: 10 € – three sausages would cost us this month. For people who have a gross salary of € 7,500, this is really not much. This would be socially balanced in comparison to what is happening now that people with 1 000 €, 1 100 €, 1 200 €, if they need glasses to pay by 100 €, 200 €, 300 € more than according to our model. That is the difference between a socially balanced policy as we make it and a non-socially balanced policy. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] I'd like to give the €10 so that we don't have this non-social load package. I would like to give it to Mr Fuhrmann, the three sausages, so that we do not have this non-social burden package. Then it would be really socially balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12444	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, He also speaks for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12463	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that this health package could be presented today, Mrs. Federal Minister, is primarily because it was determined by the concern and expertise of the national and local representatives. I don't hear anything about the mood you're talking about in the countries. I'd rather hear disappointment! No doubt you have succeeded in bringing up issues that do not belong together, and it is precisely this procedure that has made negotiations difficult. This process has actually only made possible two results: a bad one or a worse one. If the countries now opt for the bad result, Mrs Bundesminister, this does not mean that it is a good result. But the result can't hide over the chaos in the government either. Be You're sure, Minister of State, someday Klubobmann Scheibner will get up again. The Federal Chancellor speaks very often of the “time of harvest. ” – Yes, it is true, there has been a time of harvest for five years, but not for the population, but for the Minister of Finance, for the Federal Chancellor, so for the Federal Government. €9 billion has been re-cashed, the tax reform will return a third of it, but with the result that most of it does not benefit those who have paid €9 billion. In addition, they have squandered government assets and increased government debt by €20 billion. You remember, Mrs. Federal Minister, your message was: The future without new debts. It is true that we have the highest debt of all time today. You have also talked about the paradigm change, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat, Federal Minister. Paradigms as a pattern of thinking that shape the world's view – yes, that's it, Mrs. Federal Minister. Your concept is ideology: Your ideology is privatization of the kitchens and laundry in hospitals, as you have told us today. Their ideology is privatization of the health system. They want a defined basic provision for all, top medicine only for the rich, and that is exactly what, Mrs. Federal Minister, distinguishes us. We Social Democrats want to offer the state of medicine to all people and want to finance it in a solid and socially just way. If you guarantee this, Mrs. Federal Minister, we'll be with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12508	We have three more words to speak for 2 minutes. Next word: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. He wants to talk for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12526	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk briefly about food safety. In this context, the Court of Auditors' report and our criticisms, which have taken place a few years ago, I would say, are at the heart of the matter. The Court of Auditors has also adopted this view, namely that a timely restructuring process in the field of food control and safety in Austria would have been clearly preferable to a breakdown. Mrs. Federal Minister! How have you taken these recommendations from the Court of Auditors into account in the framework of the budget proposals? - From our point of view, in no form. The Court of Auditors speaks openly of the fact that a conflict of interest between the private and the sovereign sectors could not be completely eliminated, and also recommends that the Agency for Health and Food Safety withdraw from the private contracts business area. He is addressing less revenue of €4 million. Ladies and gentlemen! There is obviously a subdote. In the coming years, the Agency for Health and Nutritional Safety threatens bankruptcy if the corresponding budgetary resources are not made available. We do not yet see a green light in the proposals you have to answer together with Mr Pröll. I am thinking only of the additional challenges in the field of the labelling of non-genotechnic food, the whole sector of BSE research has been rescinded to the Agency, which is an extensive area. Mrs Bundesminister, concluded: An important suggestion in the field of health care concerns the entire area of nutrition, especially organically produced food and the supply of public institutions. This is an important issue that you should also look at more and more courageous from our point of view, because we could also make joint projects. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12569	Mr Magz (PPE). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Maier for 2 minutes at the speaker's desk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12587	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There are more reasonable solutions for the counter-financing of the health reform, Mrs. Federal Minister. Our party observer Dr. Gusenbauer made this very clear in his speech. Allow me to show you a way! [[Call the ÖVP: What does damage say?]] This is a prospectus “for a better standing”. [[the speaker holds up a brochure]] It's about a tube. I'll show you a tube. [[The speaker holds a septic tube in the height.]] This is a mustard tube that everyone knows. The latest thing that exists now – I think this is a scandal – is vodka in a tube, alkopops that are handed over and sold to minors. [[The speaker holds a vodkat in height]] High House, I really think it's a scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already talked about this in the Financial Committee, and you have sent a letter to Mrs Federal Minister for Rauch-Kallat. The Socialists' request is in the direction of a steering charge. If 30 million pieces are sold – these are the figures for 2003, my dear ladies and gentlemen – then we have € 60 million for health care at a delivery of € 2 per piece. And that is the way we propose Social Democrats! Your way is wrong!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12644	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12662	Mr President. No, Mr Großruck, I can certainly not serve with a four-liner, but with four questions that you should be very interested in. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Mr Grossruck is now obviously stealing my time. Look out, I'll tell you something seriously: They know about the common difficulties in Upper Austria as regards the financing of the health system. I can say that there is no century reform overnight, but at least a health reform has been launched. Secondly, it has been noted, and not by us, that the urgent link between financial compensation and health financing, which you have claimed, has been adjourned by us. Thirdly, there is the question of long-term grant requirements for hospitals. There are the needs of federal personnel funding, not only through the science budget, but possibly through the health budget. Now I'm wondering, What is this reform in which no single item is changed? Don't you think that's funny? – It may well be that the target subsidies are not being tangled as net items, because they say that the increases that are now being made elsewhere will be depreciated differently and will not run through the health budget. – Please explain this to us! Why do I say that, and why do I ask that? – In the Committee on Budgets, which is responsible for consulting it, no one was able – the Minister of Finance might have been, but he was not willing – or willing to clarify these things. For this reason, I talked with the health speaker of the ÖVP. It was a very constructive conversation, he is always very hard. Both of us have not been able to see a viable reason until the end why, after this reform, nothing needs to be changed in the budget. We didn't know what it was all about. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We stayed a little bit behind with question marks. But I think that's okay, I think it's honest if we cooperate like this. I'm just wondering what we decide now. I want to open at least – in so far as the business base for a preliminary decision has come to us – but this is a business-to-business problem that we now have to vote on the health chapter without financial compensation. Come on. You get out of here and explain to us the inner connection or better the inner non-consistency! The Minister of Finance – who is not here now, of course; but this is not an accusation – I blame him for refusing this information in the Committee on Budgets. It's even worse: We have demonstrated to the Minister of Finance that the financial compensatory chapter was under-compensated because it was already clear what was going to happen. Now this is supposed to be all related to the health reform. To date you have not tabled the amendments, but we should now vote for them because they are all so great. Tell us where this is happening in the basic configuration of gross budgeting, in the pots outside the budget, or at least within the budget! But to announce a reform work here without a single number of changes – yes, what do I have to think? Then you are either light-seers who have previously known exactly how much euro this shifts – congratulations! – or I have to express the suspicion that it is more than I am and the sincere health spokesman of the ÖVP, that this is obviously not understandable, which is being reformed around here. That's our suspicion. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am still quoting the leader of the political group, the clubman of the liberals. He has not yet taken back his suspicion that, in fact, no health reform is being financed, but the part that goes to the countries is somehow used, but not to increase reformability, but perhaps to do something in between. It is not even guaranteed that this will really end up in the health system. Yes, what are those conditions? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What your signatures are worth on one side among the papers, you know that. Mr Scheibner, explain this to me, otherwise I would like to listen to the pumper who will now take place at the time of the vote. But I've predicted this to you. This is a diseased debate and not a health reform! [[Abg. Scheibner: Where have you been in the last two weeks? You don't have anything to do with it! Zero competence!]] I have told you that the system's financing issue and the debate here in the House are moving forward. That is another good example. The only problem is that one can no longer reorganise the business regulations. I talked to President Khol about this. It was a good conversation, but it's not going to happen. I'm just drawing your attention to the fact that I have the suspicion that you don't even know what you're voting for. I at least admit it and vote against it for that reason.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12732	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Mr deputies, you have not set a speaking time. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 3 minutes!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12765	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Kogler, in the last two hours, you should have had a less permanent conversation with any people outside, but listen to them better, then you know that this health concept is a good one. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If I – I tell you quite honestly, Mr Kogler – stand out here and quote once what you are giving here in any conversation all day, then the first thing would be the time frame, and second, it would be a call of order, because your choice of words is not always correct. [[Abg. Dr. One: You're standing!]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But I have now spoken in order to clarify the following: We have been accused of having a crash in this health reform. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes! Yes!]] - Wait a minute! Wait a minute! I read an APA message from this afternoon: “Preventing increase of recipe fee and co-clear Carinthian SPÖ success, “winning of social conscience continues””. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Say what's here!]] SPÖ-Chief Dr. Peter Ambrozy is enthusiastic about the “great success” in the negotiations on health reform. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But now I don’t know each other anymore, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Kogler: I say that all the time!]] There are other capazunders: Mrs. Burgstaller, Mr. Mayor Häupl, Mr. Rieder City Councillor, Head of State, Peter Ambrozy. The result is good for many important ladies and gentlemen of social democracy. We have prevented the increase in the prescription fee – this, Dr. Gusenbauer, was a request from you! That it comes to a valorization of 10 cents, which is based on something quite different, and you know that very well. That this valorization in the nineties was decided by a government coalition we did not belong to, you know only too well. The fact that the increase in hospital costs does not necessarily come – the low-cost countries will refrain from this increase, those countries that need it will introduce them – you know very well. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: In Carinthia, for example!]] It is really fascinating for me that you have the courage to make yourself here and to criticize what you have called for! It's not understandable to me. I have actually expected you to be present today at the press conference at the head of the ÖVP and the Liberals, and to be pleased about it, because what you saw three days ago as the result of your fighting presidium, where the federal government and countries have agreed in any form of hypocrisy, because these demands that we have now implemented would actually be a success of the Social Democrats. They still have the opportunity to celebrate this success together with the ÖVP and the FPÖ. Give your red heart a back and agree to this good reform! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12873	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur, Mrs Speciale, want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the Advisory Group XIII of the 2005 Federal Proposal. This includes Chapter 17 of the Federal Estimate in 650 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group on XIII of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger, fellow Members, on ensuring the working capacity of the Chambers for Workers and Employees. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Advisory Group III Chapter 20: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12940	We are now negotiating the Advisory Group III: Outwards. The Special Rapporteur did not accept oral reporting. I'll open the debate. First of all, Mr Arbitrator. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e12971	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After a few months of foreign policy abstinence in the House, we are pleased to have the second debate on foreign policy within a shorter period of time. So I do not want to repeat myself and I will not say again what I said in the last debate. Before I speak on a few points, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but also on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to thank the Foreign Office and its staff very much for their good cooperation. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Greens as well as the Abg. Dr. Bösch.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, too, it is commanded to condolence the Palestinian people to the death of Arafat, to remember the achievements of President Arafat, and to combine this with our hope and wishes for a reasonable and peaceful solution to the Middle East conflict and for an agreed future of the Palestinian people in their own state. [[General condolences.]] Today, when we talk about what the priorities of 2005 are going to be in the field of foreign policy – and this is the implementation of the budget figures – we have to be clear that many things will happen in 2005 in preparation for our EU Presidency, that the new Commission, the new work in the EU, enlargement, the question of the Balkans, will also be very much on our agenda. In addition, the celebrations are planned. However, I believe that our foreign policy role should go beyond EU preparation and the role of the host in celebrations in our country next year. We believe that priorities should be set which complement, perhaps even alter and compensate for these areas. As a territorial priority, I therefore propose that we consider – especially since Europe is always on the agenda – whether we should not take specific care of the African continent next year. There will probably also be new opportunities through new human constellations in the Middle East question. There is the new major problem of the ivory coast, the whole problem of hunger, misery and everything around Sudan. There are problems in southern Africa, AIDS and others. Africa could be an area for which we can make a great deal of commitment. Our group is ready to do so. Although our developmentist speaker, Mr Bayr, suffers from the consequences of her migraine head decay, she is still ready to work at all times when it comes to helping to put this focus on Africa. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In my opinion, the main focus next year could be on human rights, and we should continue in our efforts to abolish the death penalty; Human rights for the reason that the great challenge is to ensure, in all its considerations on the fight against terrorism, that this is not at the expense of fundamental and freedom rights, that the death penalty is abolished because it is important to continue the good tradition of Austria. Mrs Minister, I hope you will be supported by your colleagues in the government. I also hope that Mr. Vice-Chancellor, when he recently paid very media-active Governor Schwarzenegger's visit, will be there with four eyes the question of the death penalty or the imposition of the death penalty has also been raised. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is becoming ever more important to show a model for other countries in foreign policy. What we have been able to do so far, because no one has misunderstanded in Western democracy, is also to be seen in the future from the point of view that this must also be seen as a model effect. So if Putin is now considering not choosing the governors directly anymore or raising the obstacle to entry to Parliament, then we will only be able to tell him: This is not democratic, if we do not set ourselves such behaviors – but many countries in the EU do – neither at federal level nor at democratic institutions. Or to stay with Austria: If we criticise other countries in the Council of Europe because the prisons are not cared for by competent institutions but by the military, if we say that these do not meet the conditions, then we cannot discuss something similar in our own country. I therefore propose to set priorities, to have principles, to set examples. Then our foreign policy, with the neutrality that we all now all confess – even if some want to introduce a due date – sets a focus on our country, which serves Europe and which also shows that we have not forgotten the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13059	Mr Spindelegger is next spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13077	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to start by recalling the budget itself with its figures. We have committed €380 million for the external budget in Chapter 20 for 2005. This is more than €39 million compared to the previous year, i.e. compared to the 2004 budget, and this is an increase of more than 10 percent. I think this is a very good basis, Mrs Plassnik, which you have taken over with your leadership from your predecessor Benita Ferrero-Waldner, so that you can carry out your duties. One can, and I would also do this here, be grateful to Benita Ferrero-Waldner for her budget negotiations because it has provided a basis for the foreign office which can be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I do not want to say much about the individual positions, ladies and gentlemen. There are some projects that we very much welcome. It is the budget for the ADA, the Austrian Development Agency, has been increased by more than one million €. But there is also the plan to bring the foreign office under a roof. There are budget appropriations for the adaptation of the Herrengasse, the former building of the Lower Austrian Government, to the Foreign Office. I think this is very correct, because it's good if a place under one The roof is ruled. In view of the 1,428 staff that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has in all the representation authorities and the central office, it is clear that this figure is not abundant. On the contrary! Many employees of the Foreign Office have more and more work to do. In particular, consular cases are increasing more and more per year; over 600 000 this year. That means that these are more and more tasks that the employees have to deal with. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen, especially the representative authorities, who act in the interests of Austria and in the service of the Austrians and do so very successfully. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As far as the priorities are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I am in much agreement with my colleague Peter Schieder. For the next year, Mrs Plessnik, Federal Minister, announced that she wanted to open two new embassies, namely in Cyprus and Malta, which we naturally welcome. This makes sense because we have representative authorities throughout the European Union. This is a certain gap, and I think that deserves the approval of everyone in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, Mr Schieder also referred to projects during the Presidency. We should not forget one thing either: As part of the Austrian Presidency, there will be a Latin America summit. It is therefore also appropriate to promote, in the context of the Austrian Presidency, relations with Latin America in particular. [[Abg. Arbitrator: 2006 – That’s why I suggest 2005...!]] I understand; I say yes, I agree with a lot of what you mean, but we should not ignore that either. I would also like to ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, that we revive the good habit of cooperation with Parliament within the framework of the 1998 Presidency. At the time, 1998, we worked intensively together, including in terms of timing, between the Foreign Office and Parliament. I'd be very pleased if you could continue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13135	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13153	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Leave I would also like to begin my speech today on the external budget chapter with the thanks to the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think that they, especially the staff in the consular authorities, but also in those messages that are very low-occupied, in which, for example, consular officials often have to take over tasks of the ambassador, are under high pressure, have a lot to work, have also had to compensate for massive staff cuts and savings in recent years. I think that they deserve a special thanks and also a encouragement that they can continue their work in the future and also with joy in the work despite high loads. [[General condolences.]] This day – and this has already been mentioned by Mr Schieder – is certainly also a memorable day – not only for the situation in the Middle East, but for the whole world! The death of Palestinian president Arafat means the end of an era. Arafat, who has just died, is a symbol of the Palestinian people's struggle for freedom. He has unfortunately not achieved the goal of being president of an independent and also viable Palestinian state, but in his life he has managed very well to become one of the fighters with forceful means, who Resources have given a rejection – even though he has not managed to put a complete end to violence within the people under him. Unfortunately, what Arafat has not managed to do, is to try in time in order to succeed that it would have been possible to re-start with new people before. However, I share the hope of many that there is now a new beginning of the Middle East peace process and that there will actually be elections there soon with a new, recognised Palestinian leadership. It is hoped that this will also be recognised by Israel and the Sharon government, which should make it possible to return to the “Road Map”. Mrs. Foreign Minister! In this context, I have a very specific question to you. Austria has a long tradition in the Middle East policy, also within the framework of its active neutrality policy. You recently stressed, when Israeli President Katzav was in Vienna, that relations – that is a quote – with the countries of the Middle East will be a focus of your foreign policy activity. Today, it has been decided that future Deputy Chancellor Gorbach will be represented at the funeral of Arafat. He is Vice-Chancellor, I already accept that, but I would be interested why you did not want to take this opportunity to be present as a new Foreign Minister at this funeral. This would also be the opportunity to talk to other Foreign Ministers of the European Union about the possibility of a fresh start here. I would simply be interested in whether you have considered this and why you have come to this decision by the government. Because you yourself have said that you want to make the Middle East policy a focus of Austrian foreign policy. How do you want to do that? – I would be interested. Mrs Minister, one more point: There have recently been some world-political events, including the re-election of US President Bush. They were very diplomatic in your comments. I would like to know whether you are planning to continue the path of your predecessor – a path of the middle that is not clearly positioned – or whether you are planning to conclude what you have to say, from the demand for a stronger multilateralism, for strong support from the United Nations, which is also so declared to the United States and the Bush Government, or whether you are just continuing this path of the middle that your predecessor has gone. This was one of the weather still, which simply did not allow a clear position. I think that clear positions in Austrian foreign policy are necessary, including Russia, to President Putin, who, for example, in the last few years, has experienced far too little criticism from the European Union. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like you to have a clear position, because it cannot be said that because one wants to have good economic relations with a country – similar to China – such massive human rights violations, as they happen in Chechnya, do not address and act as if they did not happen. But now on the question of what priorities Austria can have in the near future, also in 2005 and how this is related to the budget. Mrs. Minister! The idea of giving Africa a stronger role in bilateral Austrian relations in 2005 is a very good idea that I and the Greens support. I think this would be the opportunity to say that security policy must set the framework for social and environmental policy. It is a question of creating security, and of creating democratic conditions with the participation and participation of the people, especially women, so that violent conflicts cannot arise at all. And Austria has a contribution to make to that! I also come to the question of the budget, where I see a slight increase in development cooperation, but unfortunately it is only 1.33 million euros for the bilateral area – where there is indeed something to be done – for the ADA. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl]] I think that will be too little – not only to bring something forward in our African priority countries, but also to achieve the Monterrey that you have said you really want to achieve. While you have stressed in your speech that this will be achieved in 2006, Austria will reach 0.33% of GDP, the question is always: Will this only be about decommitments that are not planned, or indeed substantial, so that Austria can take steps in the key development cooperation countries both in the south and in the east? – And I wish that from you – we have already wished for this from Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner, but unfortunately we did not get it, neither was the Minister of Finance for Finance, but you could now make a new start – a roadmap, as Austria not only reaches this 0.33 percent by 2006 but also the 0.7 percent that have been decided on by the UN for 34 years by 2010. Mrs. Minister! I hope that there will be some clearer statements from you here than before, because just to say: It's great that the foreign office has more budget now!, is too little. I'm glad it didn't get any less – I too! The Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has simply been seriously weakened in recent years as regards resources. If I draw a comparison, for example, at the staff level: We now have fewer than 1,500 employees in Austria – a country similar to Sweden has 2 500! People only have 24 hours a day to work. I hope you will achieve more budget for your department in the future. Mrs Minister, let me conclude with a point concerning the Austrian EU Presidency. The Latin America Summit has already been addressed, and it will take place in Austria in 2006. Recently, the countries of Mercosur and the Andean Pact have joined forces to build a common market. – I know there is still a long way to go, but is this an initiative supported by you? If so, could you not just put the summit under this motto? One last: Mrs. Minister! As I said, I have listened with great interest to your first speeches and also to your replies in the committees, and have found comments where I think that more could be done – for example, how you want to strengthen multilateralism, how you want to strengthen the United Nations. I hope that you will go more clearly in the direction of Austrian peace policy, towards the designability of social and environmental security in the world. I also hope that you will become a minister who gives Austria a re-designing role here – I have not heard it from you to the extent I need so far, I hope there will be something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13260	Mr Klubobmann Scheibner is next spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13278	Madam President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! At the beginning of my speech, I too would like to express my regret at the death of President Jassir Arafat. We hope that after his death, which in the last days has still shown the whole tragedy of life and the person of Jassir Arafat – apparently he was not allowed to die because his potential successors still needed the time to regulate the succession at least half way – there will be a stable leadership, one of all the recognised leadership of the Palestinian people, and there may be another chance for a new edition of the peace process in the Middle East between Israel and the Palestinians. However, the following must also be expressed: It is interesting that now most of the lives and activities of President Arafat are seen very positively. However, one forgets a little that this positive assessment would have been appropriate in recent years, when it came to how to agree with a elected President – whether or not you agree with everything he has done in the course of his life and activity, or not, he was the elected President of the Palestinian people – how to deal with him and with him as a functional. I believe that this has also been a problem in the past with this Middle East conflict. And there are few protests from the Western world, even few protests from the European Union. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Neudeck.]] It must apply to the future that any institution that chooses its officials, its official bodies, has the right to be recognized by the State community and by all the countries of the world. That is what I hope we will support in the future, Mrs Minister for Foreign Affairs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this context, the elections in the United States are of particular importance, as it has not been felt that the US is an objective and dynamic mediator in the Middle East conflict. It is to be hoped that President Bush now, as he no longer has the demonoclesc gravity of the next elections ahead of him, will pursue a policy other than before, not only in the Middle East, but also in Iraq, because we unfortunately had to miss the will to balance, to a just peace with the participation of all the parties involved. Mrs. Foreign Minister! I believe that, especially now that there is a new situation, the European Union, and thus Austria, as an engine for this development, have the opportunity, but also the responsibility and the commitment to become more involved in the role of intermediaries than before. I do not want to repeat like Mr Schieder – he is right, we have already put a lot in the last debates here – but I would just like to say a few words, such as the question of the next round of enlargement. Mrs. Foreign Minister! In this context too, we see an important role in Austria, namely that, when it comes to negotiating with Turkey, we ensure that it is clearly stated that it should not be a one-way road towards membership, but that we recognise that Turkey is important for Europe, that it also has a strategicly important role, that it is not possible for this country to be included in the European Union's values union with all rights and obligations, and that we therefore want to act in other directions, such as a 'partnership for Europe', where countries that are important to us but which cannot meet the requirements for full membership can be integrated. The next point is development cooperation. I think the ADA has already proved itself well. I hope that the appropriate emphasis will be placed here on giving people in the developing countries the craftsmanship, taking responsibility in their own hands, working with it in the field of security policy, as well as on refugee policy, that people in their countries will see a future and that they will not be prompted to look for their future in Europe and in Austria through criminal towing organisations. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Of course, cooperation in security policy in Europe, but also in addition, will be an important task of Austrian foreign policy. Not only the fight against terrorism, but also cooperation in all areas of security policy is of particular importance. This is also a clear word, since in recent times some interesting ideas – formerly from the Social Democracy, now from the Greens – have taken place, which aim to bring together security and defence policy in Europe. Community means, in fact, The abolition of the national armies, that is also of the Austrian federal army – which is probably the true background of the Green Initiatives – and a Euroarm under the command of Brussels. And I give you a clear rejection from the point of view of the liberals. We want a common security and defence policy where structures are unified, but together... – Not NATO, Mrs Colleague, read the initiatives in the European Union! [[Abg. Mandak: You prefer NATO!]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: You'd rather go to NATO!]] We do not want what you want to do, namely that Brussels decides where and how Austrian citizens are sent in military operations. [[Abg. Mandak: Not Brussels, the European Parliament!]] This is the responsibility of Austria and the Austrian Parliament – and so it should remain! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also believe that Africa is of particular importance to our security, but also to the economic interests. But I think that the path that has been taken so far is to try to make security efforts in the case of conflicts in a co-operation between European states. It would be more important and useful to support the African states – unfortunately it is not very many – who have stable structures, stable governments, so that they can set up peacekeeping forces themselves within the framework of the UN and together with the European Union, so that those who have experience and trust in the region can carry out these tasks with our support. So a whole series of tasks and possibilities for Austrian foreign policy. The higher budget will provide a better craftsmanship. Your first activities, Mrs Foreign Minister, not only leave us with hope, but also with the certainty that this dynamic foreign policy will continue and be improved and expanded with you at the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13362	Mrs Plassnik spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13383	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking you for the positive reception I found in this House two weeks ago when I took office. I am well aware that this advance of confidence must only be justified by my side. I'm going to work hard to live up to this advance of confidence. Leave So please renew my offer to try to make common ground a guideline of my work. High house! I too would like to make two preliminary remarks on the international situation. We observe with concern and attention the situation in the Middle East. With President Arafat, the Palestinian people lost the leader, whose name was the hope of the Palestinian people for their own state. For more than three decades, he has shaped all the heights and depths of the Palestinian struggle for self-determination. With all his passion he has gone about the future of his people. Our sorrows, but also our hope, apply to the Palestinian people. May a new leadership find the courage and strength to push back violence and join with Israel, the regional neighbours and the other international partners in the way to a peace solution! We are ready at every stage to make our contribution to this. [[General condolences.]] High house! This evening, the newly elected American President and the English Prime Minister meet each other. We hope that after one election year, the US will turn its attention to the pressing issues of the Middle East. We must work together on both sides of the Atlantic. The time of waiting is over. Now on the subject of budget. The estimate for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is exactly €380 million. Compared to the previous year, this is an increase of €39 million or 11 percent. My predecessor, whom I would like to thank warmly at this point, has been successful in increasing the budget, because in the next few years there will be many additional tasks to which the government has committed itself, above all the expansion of Austrian development cooperation and the organisation of the EU Presidency. Only half of this proposal, around € 190 million, is used for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself, i.e. for the operation of all embassies in the world and the Ministry of Vienna. The funds for this area remained, I mentioned it in the Committee, largely unchanged. The other half of the budget is used for work in the world. Here there are increases in those expenditures that are not directly influenced by me or my department, the so-called legal contributions. These are not only the contributions to the United Nations or the Council of Europe, but also the contributions from Austria to the many peacekeeping operations of the UN, for example in Liberia or the Congo, but also €5 million to the UN mission in Sudan and €3 million to the UN mission in Haiti as well as the contribution to the International Criminal Court. In addition, as announced in the government programme, we will expand our contribution to development cooperation and also to foreign cultural work. I might say here that in 2003 we spent almost half of our project resources in the EZA in Africa. After all, in 2004 it was over 30 percent. The European Union: In the next two years – some of my previous speakers have mentioned it – we are faced with important tasks that we have to deal with together – the Federal Government and Parliament. In my view, the Constitutional Treaty, which I signed with the Federal Chancellor two weeks ago, provides an excellent basis for cooperation between the Member States, especially the national parliaments. The Constitution will bring more democracy, clearer responsibilities and more rights to European citizens. I am therefore pleased that the Constitutional Treaty was ratified by the national Parliament today – a few hours ago – in Lithuania as the first country. It is clear to me that the ratification of the new constitution in Austria also includes a corresponding public work. A few words on the European Council last week and two important points have been made: Firstly, the European site discussion, the Lisbon process, the Wim-Kok report on how to preview the mid-term review at the beginning of next year. Here new impulses were set and compactions carried out. The second important area: internal security, progress towards common asylum standards and cooperation in border management. On the subject of enlargement: Enlargement has changed the position of Austria in Europe. Four of the ten new member countries are neighbouring countries and thus equal partners in the European Union. I will make every effort to take advantage of the opportunities offered to us by the accession of these countries. After my first bilateral visit to Switzerland and a conversation with my Croatian counterpart here in Vienna, I will go to Slovakia next week. Further meetings with the regional partners are planned. By the way, I will receive the Ethiopian Foreign Minister in Vienna tomorrow. The next concrete EU enlargement steps are taking place. Bulgaria and Romania are just before the conclusion of the negotiations and could therefore join in a few years. As far as Croatia is concerned, it is known that we are working towards the European Council on 17 November. The decision to open accession negotiations will be decided on December. Croatia's approach to the EU will take another important step towards the stabilisation of South-East Europe. Turkey will be discussed in December. Austria will play a non-essential role in the preparation. Federal Chancellor Schüssel was appointed coordinator of the EPP last week, and if my information is correct, SPÖ Chairman Dr. Gusenbauer was appointed to the European Social Democrats' Steering Group on this issue. [[Abg. Scheibner: Look here! That's why he's not here right now!]] To South-East Europe: The development of the other countries of south-eastern Europe is, of course, also of great importance for Austria. In the last Council of Ministers, the Federal Government decided to extend the deployment of 600 soldiers in Kosovo and 300 soldiers in Bosnia and Herzegovina to stabilise the region. The contribution made by this peace mission is not only a contribution to security and stabilisation in the Western Balkans, but also a contribution to security in Austria and Europe. In the common foreign and security policy, the possibility of co-designation is now one of the biggest challenges for Austrian foreign policy. We will actively co-design these from the beginning and develop and bring in our Austrian position in good time. This also applies to the construction of the European External Service, which is currently being prepared. The Austrian contribution to European integration during our Presidency will be particularly visible in the first half of 2006. In order to prepare the numerous organisational commitments associated with the Presidency, we must also provide for the 2005 budget. We have therefore budgeted € 15.9 million for this great task. Our first presidency in 1998 was given a good witness from all sides. We are therefore already preparing everything with all our attention today to give our Presidency a sign of professionalism, but also of political far-sightedness, not only in Europe, but also with our non-European partners. Ladies and gentlemen, you know there will be a number of summits in Austria. There is the summit with the USA, with Canada, with Japan, with Russia and with the Latin American and Caribbean countries. As far as development cooperation is concerned, the support of the countries of the South in its many problems is a moral and political duty for us. The Federal Government has therefore committed itself to increasing the EZA contribution both in the EU framework and at the Monterrey Conference. We are committed to achieving the Monterrey target, which means that we want to make 0.33 percent of GDP available to EZA in 2006. In order to achieve this objective, we continued our growth trend in the 2005 budget. The contribution of the Austrian Federal budget to EZA will be increased by €21 million to a total of €594 million next year. In 2005 we will provide €90.1 million through the Austrian EZA ADA Agency for Development Cooperation. That's 20 million € more than two years ago. We have thus reached the billions of development in Schilling, to which we were familiar five years ago. In addition, Austria – and this should not be ignored – is also making a major contribution to the European Union's EZA budget. The contribution will amount to € 185 million in the coming year, which means an increase of € 20 million compared to 2004. Austria also contributes €78 million to the EZA budget of international organisations such as the UN. A word on foreign culture: It is gratifying that we have achieved a trend change in the resources for the cultural dimension of foreign policy. Compared to the 2004 budget, we were able to reach an increase of €4.9 billion to €6 billion. With these funds we will present Austrian culture in a growing number of locations. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that I have been able to explain to you today that we are discussing the budget of a modern service company whose core competence is to be there for the interests of Austria and its citizens – from the consular emergency abroad to the representation of Austrian positions at the Brussels negotiating table. The budgets for which I am looking for your support will be used for this. Thanks to my employees, I will be happy to forward it. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13435	The next item is the report by Mr Dr. Einsamt. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13454	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Federal Minister, allow me a preliminary remark: They are – at least – the EU Minister of the Interior of Austria. You are indeed the coordinator of Austrian politics in the European Union, and as such I would like to address you primarily. I know that I have to address more than you have to answer in the Exterior Division, but who else has overall responsibility for Austrian politics in Brussels except the Chancellor and – in everyday life – you? Let me therefore address some of the challenges that the EU is facing us. First of all, enlargement: They have addressed two aspects of this. I'd like to speak to the third person. ==References== In December, the question was as follows: How about Turkey? At the same time, this is also the question: How about the EU? Is – so the question – the European Union really prepared for further enlargement? Is it not true that the 25 have not really learned to develop Europe with one another, and that the ten new ones have not just received the best example from the previous members? I do not think that we need to be surprised, for example, if, last weekend in Vienna, a parliamentarian of today's Polish opposition was calling for Germany to pay off its social state and cut down the red tape in order to make more money available to Poland, and if, on the other hand, at the same event of the mayor of Warsaw – including one opposition party today – it stated that Poland would at least insist on setting up its corporate tax autonomously in order to move companies to move to Poland, and then on the other hand, to explain why Poland as a partner is more important than the partners within the European Union. Why do I describe this? – Not to make Poland bad, but it is an example of having difficult years in the EU ahead of us. And now we just want to keep going, so if nothing's changed? I think we have to put an emphasis on this EU, which will bring it back into swing at all, and that this is just a precondition for further enlargement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Secondly, economic development: The High Level Expert Group under the former Dutch Prime Minister Wim Kok has just presented its report on the interim review of the Lisbon Strategy. This is a very clear criticism of the situation. Address the contradiction of the Lisbon objectives and the lack of will of the Member States to take genuinely determined action. We will achieve the goal of becoming the most competitive region in the world while at the same time creating more and better jobs, creating a knowledge-based society that strengthens social cohesion, only if it succeeds to boost the economy, not by praying or hoping, but by coordinated investments in infrastructure, in research and in education, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] – Thank you very much! Mrs. Foreign Minister! We will only regain enthusiasm for Europe if people feel that it is going up and that the funds of Europe are really being used. At the same time, this is a prerequisite for encouraging and explaining further enlargement to EU citizens. We want and we need the acceptance of EU citizens. Let me say something about foreign and security policy. Mrs. Federal Minister! We are interested in building a common European foreign and security policy from one source, but we do not want any foreign and security policy, but we want one based on peace, democracy and law, and not one based primarily on military strength and economic ownership. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why, in the next few years, we need Austrian neutrality, not with a twinkling of eyes, but with strength and solidarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Neutrality helps us to develop in the EU a security policy based on the Charter of the United Nations and generally on law. We do not want Austrian soldiers to be sent to war without recognised legal bases, nor do we want other EU soldiers to be sent to war without recognised legal bases. As a neutral state, we must not want to do that either. Therefore: Maintain Austrian neutrality and a European policy that meets this requirement. Finally, let me say the following: Mrs. Federal Minister! If the EU Commission – including the new EU Commission – believes that it can, with proposals such as those concerning the European Services Directive or the Working Time Directive, obtain the acceptance of people who need it to be able to develop positively, then the Commission is unfortunately on the way to wood. A service directive that liberalises services throughout Europe, without treating the negative effects for the losers of this liberalisation in any way, or a working time directive that changes European working time law only at the expense of workers and exclusively for the benefit of employers, creates thousands and thousands of additional European skeptics. We can save ourselves a strategy such as “Communication Europe” if we do not begin to make a policy that takes account of all people in Europe. That's why I want to ask you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13592	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Hakl. You took 4 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13612	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would also like to begin by thanking the staff in the Foreign Office for their excellent work, especially those who work in the field of development cooperation, but also the staff of the ADA, the new Agency for Development Cooperation, and also the representatives of NGOs who have been able to give thanks to God in recent years, so to speak, to the streets, to the people, to the poorest people of the world. – Thank you all a very warm thank you for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The current European Foreign Minister, Dr Benita Ferrero-Waldner, is responsible for allowing us to take this successful path in particular to combat poverty and thus combat conflicts. In the future, this will be implemented by our esteemed Mrs Plassnik, whom I would like to express a great deal of praise at this point, as I believe, as a substitute for all, for her first appearances in Parliament and in the media, and which I wish much success for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: Don't pay too much attention to the praise of the ÖVP!]] On the other hand, the increased funds for Austrian development cooperation following the record budget of last year are not enough alone to be able to effectively combat poverty. It's not just the money that matters. Above all, in the past the quality of Austrian development cooperation has improved continuously. Just a few days ago, the current OECD Development Committee report, CAD, came out. At regular intervals, the quality of Austrian development cooperation is examined. This report is the best that Austrian development cooperation has received over the last two decades. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The OECD expressly welcomes the reforms that have been carried out since 2000. In particular, the experts who are otherwise, I believe, always greatly appreciated by the opposition, the new EZA law, which unfortunately could not be adopted unanimously. The extension of operational planning and project execution to the ADA, which unfortunately was also rejected by the opposition parties, and the current three-year programme with the developmental projects from 2004 to 2006, which, no longer surprising, was unfortunately rejected, are also particularly appreciated. I hope that in the future we will be able to find greater common ground if the way taken by the government parties is also praised by external and neutral partners. We expressly acknowledge the fact that in 2006, the 0.33 percent of gross domestic product was used for development cooperation, and I thank Mrs Foreign Minister that she has already confirmed this several times in the House. In addition, I also thank the “zerocomma” campaign, which supports all of us in raising awareness among the people of Austria for the fact that it has not yet been done with this increase in funds. I am also very specific to the ÖVP as the goals formulated in the 'zerocomma' campaign. We will all work together to make the difficult application of even more money for development cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13676	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. You took 4 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13694	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! It's a coincidence, but logically, it doesn't go by: Today is a day when a statesman died who had no state. That is why the question of whether he was more revolutionary or more statesman is difficult to answer from my point of view, because one can hardly be a statesman if one does not get the state to be able to view himself as a statesman in the real sense. You spoke at the beginning of your speech of Arafat as the elected president of the Palestinian people. I believe that the contribution you could now make together with Chancellor Schüssel in the framework of the European Union could be to help implement exactly this unfulfilled desire, which can only now be described as a legacy, by which Arafat could perhaps become a great statesman in retrospect, namely to realize the legitimate claims of the Palestinian people for self-determination and thus, for me, clearly on my own state. They have expressed themselves, but not in detail or precision, as it would be appropriate on such a day when such a statesman dies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Maybe you didn't expect this to be addressed today. I don't know. I must honestly say that I am also a little stressed because I did not really expect you to read a prepared speech to us, but thought that you would address the arguments of the foreign policy spokesperson a little bit. Unfortunately, you did not do that at all. Mr Schieder explicitly asked about the priorities of Africa, the European Union and the Austrian Presidency in 2006. Ulrike Lunacek has asked specific questions regarding Latin America. It is also the simple question in the room why you miss the opportunity to participate in the funeral celebrations in Cairo. It would be a good opportunity for a new minister to present and position himself outside the circle of EU collegiates – I say to have this without diplomatic knowledge. I imagine that such occasions do not occur so often. All right. I do not want to see the impression here today that only because the Minister is completely new are all completely satisfied and, so to speak, entirely taken by you. I'm not disappointed after your speech. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is not very surprising!]] Finally, I have two more requests to you, Mrs Minister, so something you probably expect from me anyway, because I have already put it in committee. On the one hand, we are dealing with the question of the town boards on the occasion of the next year's anniversary: 50 years of state contract. In the meantime, something has changed. Federal Chancellor Schüssel said here yesterday from this point of view that a consensus conference will be convened. Two weeks ago in the Committee, this was a completely insecure date, or he didn't say anything about it – you didn't, either – whether it would ever be there again. I would ask you, above all, to work for a solution with the responsibility you, primarily outside Austria, within the European Union and towards the countries concerned. However, there is no solution because the Federal Chancellor has already announced today that he wants to reach a solution in the same occupation as he did two years ago. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Don't be so pessimistic!]] There can be no solution, however, Mrs Minister, because at the time no solution was possible, because she was linked to a condition which was unacceptable to Slovenian representatives, because to take a written renunciation of all legal steps in the future, no Slovenian representative can do so at any conference of consensus in the world, for it is a securitised right, which is contained in Article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty. Please use this consensus conference to have a chance of success at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since I don't have time now, I have to make a brief request: Minister Ferrero-Waldner has always been very specific about Croatia's EU reception. I now logically assume that you will continue this line, but at the same time I ask you not to forget that Croatia is only a successor to the former Yugoslavia. Bosnia-Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro are the two countries that, in my view, are still neighbouring countries of Austria. We have grown up in this country too, and I therefore believe that a very special Austrian focus on this issue could not only benefit and do good to these countries, but above all to us. But I trust you, and maybe next time a few answers to the questions. – But you still have chances, it’s not quite finished yet.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13778	The next item is the report by Mr Bösch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13797	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, you have started your term of office very as an initiative. We welcome this from the FPÖ, and I can only advise you that you will not be allowed to make your calendar of appointments by the Greens in the future, but that you will determine it yourself. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Since you took office, some nuances have changed which I would like to address. You have already mentioned that the Federal Chancellor has been appointed by his group at European level, the EPP, as coordinator of the organisation of negotiations with Turkey and that we therefore hope that the decisions taken in the EU Parliament on 2 May will be taken. On 17 December the European Council held its first meeting in Brussels on 17 December. It will also bring on December the result that we have largely agreed here in Austria, namely that these negotiations should be conducted openly and will not necessarily lead to the accession of the Turkish Republic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If I hear now that Mr Gusenbauer will also be working in this coordination group in his party, the SPE, at European level, and when I say to my colleagues that I am very confident that there will be an Austrian line on this issue, which will make it clear at European level what we really want from Austria and what the Austrian Federal Government wants, namely not a new enlargement of the European Union. European Union and, subsequently, no accession of the Republic of Turkey to the EU in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a second point in which something qualitative has changed, and the Federal Chancellor has announced that he will be acting as an initiative for a European referendum on the new European Constitution. This too can only be welcomed by the FPÖs, and I hope that it will also succeed in finding a way with the other Member States of the European Union that makes it possible. We must assume that national referendums are already planned in Luxembourg, Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Denmark, Ireland, Poland, the Czech Republic and also in the UK for the coming year and that it is therefore at this European Council on 17 December. In December and in the preliminary discussions, it will be a matter of determining whether it will be possible to hold a European referendum, to clarify whether the Member States are willing to take this course. I hope that it will be possible for you and the like-minded representatives of the governments of the national Member States to make this regulation clear that a European referendum for the success of this new constitutional work would be fundamental and that it would in fact also mean that the individual Member States would no longer have to hold referendums at national level. In my opinion, the development in recent weeks has also shown the importance not only of a common foreign and security policy but also of the internal security policy. In particular, the events in Holland have shown how quickly a peace-loving European country from today to tomorrow can get into the strudel of terrorist events and how important it is to try to counter mechanisms within the framework of the European Union. Mrs. Plassnik, you start your work in a very exciting time. The challenge is a big one. The support of our liberals is safe for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13857	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13875	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would of course have liked to see a greater increase in the EZA budget for the 2005 budget. But I am confident and have no reason to doubt that you will really make a real effort to meet our international commitments in 2006 and to achieve the 0.33 percent of GNI for development expenditure. But no matter how large or how small our Austrian contribution is, it would always be immensely increasing, if our Austrian development cooperation would be more coherent if Austrian politics were more holistic for global development. The OECD not only praises us, it does, but it also criticizes us that we have still not managed to achieve the coherence that would be possible. I would suggest that we take an example of Sweden. Sweden has just passed a law entitled “Shared Responsibility – Swedish Policy for Global Development”, which deals with new opportunities in the light of globalisation, and therefore, strengthens Sweden’s international approach to global development. to ventilate the Millennium Development Goals. This law aims to contribute to a fair and sustainable development worldwide, in view of the fact that the world has become smaller, the borders have become more transparent and the countries have become much more dependent on each other. Things like environmental destruction, terrorism, AIDS and poverty have a common denominator: They don't know any nation states, they don't know borders, they're a global challenge. The end of the Cold War, new geostrategic compositions and increasing globalisation also mean, for the first time, that progress could be made individually for every individual person in this world, because the world has never been as rich as it is now. Never before have as many people lived in democracies as they do at present. There is science and technical progress that opens us up opportunities that we dreamed of a few years or decades ago, or would not even have dared to dream. Despite all of this, there are still many people who have nothing of all these benefits. For example, over 1 billion people really struggle daily for survival in the truest sense of the word. To change this, it takes a great deal of effort for the whole society, including ours, the north. The responsibility for our planet is shared. In order to be able to carry out this responsibility, our Austrian development efforts must be more coherent and much more intertwined with our policy, for example in the area of trade, agriculture, the field of external affairs, the environment and security. We can make our development expenditure much more efficient if we go in the same direction with all our policies and support each other. Development cooperation is extremely important – not a question at all! – but it is only an instrument among many possible Austrian policies for global human development. I call on you to really try to take this important step of coherence, to take an example of Sweden, for example, the export subsidies in agriculture, the Austrian Control Bank's support policy, our climate protection policy et cetera, et cetera under this coherence aspect. What I would like to appeal for in my capacity as chairman of the Austrian-African parliamentary group of friends – and I have also mentioned this to some previous speakers – is the turning to Africa, the attempt to put a political focus there. In fact, this continent is in danger of being marginalized even further, left alone with insoluble problems and economically even more pushed into the outs of it than it is already. Africa, I think, is much closer to us geographically than this continent is consciously close to us, and good governance, ownership, capacity building and much more always need the strength of national parliaments to be not only keywords but also to be truly implemented. I think Austria could make a very important contribution to this, for example, through the orientation of a conference at parliamentary level between the European Union and southern Africa, such as conflict prevention, in order to get out of one of the really burning issues. It would be very nice if the office could support us. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13933	Next, Mr Fassleven spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e13951	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, I believe you have very clearly outlined the priorities of Austrian foreign policy for the next year or the next years. This is actually exactly what you usually do in a budget debate: One deals with the budget structure and, as a member of the Federal Government, presents the content priorities. I can only tell you from my political experience: If someone like Mrs Stoisits has not yet learned what is common in a budget debate after 20 years, let us not lose sight of a budget debate with one hour of questioning! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Don't let go, that characterises your attitude!]] Mrs Stoisits, I would like to say to you: I have felt that in a subtle and diplomatic way, the Federal Minister has expressed very clearly not only her own priorities in her presentation, but also the extent of development cooperation quite specifically defined and has also mentioned that she will deal with the Ethiopian Foreign Minister tomorrow, and with what Mr Schieder has referred to, namely that she is important to Africa. At the beginning of her speech, however, the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs asked the Middle East, the Palestinian question – not only from the up-to-date point of view of this question, but also because it is a key issue for the security of the whole world, and not only Europe or the Middle East. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: That was, in your opinion, an approach to the debate?]] [[Abg. May. Lunacek: It is a question of having a debate!]] In my opinion, the Federal Minister has also made it very clear and very clear that it is not only a matter of depositing a wish somewhere, but of perhaps opening a political window now – this also through the re-election of Bush and his statement, in which he has already made very clear a year before that of his election, that there should be a two-state solution; that is something that has not yet been made by an American president. However, I am particularly interested in the question of Europe, namely the issue of fate which we are asking ourselves and which will probably be of the greatest importance in the near future and in the medium term, namely whether we are able to bring the Constitutional Treaty to the stage. This will be crucial for the strength of the EU and, of course, for the issue of enlargement. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for addressing this very clearly. I would also like to thank you for bringing us the entire catalogue of foreign policy tasks, this whole wealth in clarity and clarity, and I wish you a lot of success in your work.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14021	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Posch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14040	Madam President. Minister! Mr Fassleven! Mrs Stoisits will really not need your foreign policy Council. [[Abg. Steibl: Maybe not yours!]] I believe that it must also be allowed to practice criticism, and therefore I am happy to deal with the budget and its data. [[Abg. Steibl: That's good!]] The budget chapter 20 is estimated at €380 million and it has to be noted that comparison with the previous budgets is difficult due to the allocation of the ADA. However, this budget also includes the approaches to the EU Presidency, as measured by these €380 million. You already said it: € 15 million in the central budget, in addition to the amount of € 800 000 and the respective expenditure in the other ressort budgets, well over € 16 million, which is – in Schilling – more than 200 million schilling. It must already be said that expenditure on the EU Council Presidency has moved to a level that is a bar of every reason, which serves only the immense, baroque self-representation, self-representation and self- praise of the Federal Government. There, I think, one can relate to whether these expenditures, which primarily serve the purpose of representation, are necessary. Secondly, Austria's development cooperation has been expanded and should be increased to 0.33 percent of GDP by 2006 and it is initially absolutely clear that this target is clearly missing by 0.24 percent in 2005 and is not clear how it will be achieved in 2006 because it is a significant sum. I am also skeptical in view of the recent lip record as regards the increase in funds for development aid and development cooperation. As regards the increase in funds for the ADA, it may also be mentioned that 40 percent of this goes into the administrative burden of the ADA, so that we can already ask whether, in view of the actual stagnation of development cooperation, it required the creation of an agency or whether the relevant section in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could have managed these funds more economically. In any case, the administrative burden could have been reduced. As far as foreign policy is concerned, we are anxious about how it will be done. I think it hasn't always been successful in the past: Tag ‘Iraq policy’, keyword ‘ Sanctions’, keyword ‘Beneš decree’, keyword ‘Temelín’. It will certainly be the central question of how the EU will continue. After the story has now been readjusted with the new Commission – but not without loss of prestige, but also from the positive point of view of a Parliament equipped with new self-confidence – the question of the institutions and their role in the European integration process has come into a new phase, in particular the question of: How will the EU Commission develop? Will it become a neo-liberal project, a bureaucratic project or an instrument of governments? Mr One has already mentioned the perspective in this Commission for a social Europe – the “Services Directive”, the “Worktime Directive” – because it is a risk that social policy standards in the national states will be reduced not to reject by hand. We hope that we will be able to win you not only in the future efforts to achieve an economic union, but also in those for a social union as a committed partner. Finally, a few words on the EU Constitution: This Constitution actually brings more rights of decision and fundamental rights to citizens. It would be best to legitimise them by means of a pan-European referendum, as I am entirely your opinion, although it is not legally feasible at the moment. But it will strengthen the role of the European Parliament, introduce a new plebiscitary element, namely the citizens' initiative, including the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, which will be legally binding and will also enforce the human rights and civil rights laid down in it individually. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to conclude by saying: You were welcomed with large advance locust berries because of your professional performance, and that's what you want. I also trust you to change, overcome, and come to a new, non-fractional foreign policy, which has not always been free from resentment and revisionism in the past – in particular of the cabinet bowl I. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14089	The next item is Mr Grossruck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14108	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I join my predecessor, Mr Posch, seamlessly with the berry in advance, and can do so. I believe that the Federal Ministers have not wronged the advance lady bears and that they will be more than justifying the advance ladyberries she has received here from all the parties in Parliament. I see what Mrs Stoisits has said before, rather than an oppositional exercise: not too much praise, perhaps it could harm her politically. She spoke out here for my terms against her political conviction, because now she is going here and starting to criticize for the sake of criticism, which was very obvious to me. All right, it's your business, Mrs. Colleague. Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Please give me a rhyme! My most longing wish!]] I have already seen your support for our parliamentarians on a small personal example: I recently asked a small question in a committee, and immediately I got the answer from you a few days later. I believe that this is the right way to deal with and also the right cooperation with Members and that we have your support, but not only we, but above all those who – and I say this now – are active in their missions, whether they are at the OSCE or as election observers or in special areas. I mean all in here, and I would like to say a warm thank you, also to your team and to your ladies in the ministry, who really do support us. We need this in order to be able to cope with our work as well. However, I am also grateful – and I say that quite clearly – to your colleagues on the spot. I just want to mention three examples that I know from the Balkans, namely Ambassador Porias in Belgrade, Rennau in Albania and Dr. Jandl in Sarajevo, all three excellent representatives – I don't know – who really do their job very well, who have an excellent standing that is accepted – that is also seen in dealing with the official posts – and who, above all, make best advertising for Austria. We have a good connection, we have a good standing in these Balkan peoples. This is historically conditional, but this is also due to the way in which we want to solve the problems: not as Commissioners, just as many other countries come and believe they must buy people as they do, but understandingly, sensitive to the problems and aware of the solution. I believe that this is our access and that it is especially important for us to become active in these areas, not only for these countries, but also for our own interests, so that we have good neighbors and good friends on our doorstep and we also support them on their way to Europe. I believe that this is a very essential point and a very essential objective, and we want to continue to work on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! As always, a four-and-a-half liner at the end, which applies to you: After, at the request of Wolfgang Schüssel Benita went out to Brussels, ruled, pre-shooted with laurels, Ursula very self-confident. The greatest is it in the world, which puts many in the shadows.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14156	Next speaker is Member Dr. Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14175	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you for the excellent work done in the foreign office and the Federal Minister for much success, because there is indeed a very exciting time and because many developments which are already recognizable today require a great deal of effort, whether this is in the Middle East, whether this is in the question of the Balkans or whether it is in other regions which have become very sensitive and troubled. I would also like to point out that it is good that we build two new messages in Malta and Cyprus. I think it is right for all the Member States of the European Union to be present. But if, in addition to this general foreign policy, a focus is to be placed, I would like it to be placed in the neighbourhood policy. However, neighbourhood policy should be a little different from what happened in the past. When I hear over and over again how great the regional partnership or the strategic partnership is to be, which is constantly being stretched out politically, I must say: It was initially not so well received because it was started with an almost neo-habsburgic heritage. There were many of them, for example, Václav Klaus, when he said there were many initiatives without content, or the Polish representative, when he was a little over- Soon it was that something should be created here, which means something like a new block formation. This was initially thought to be the case, otherwise Mrs. Ferrero-Waldner would not have counted the votes of these countries again and again and opposed the number of votes of large countries such as Great Britain, Germany or Italy. In my opinion, this is a completely wrong approach. That is why I believe it is important for you, Mrs Bundesminister, to really start as a partner of these countries. The regional partnership is important, but the objectives must be clearly defined, and the objectives must be pursued together. I believe it is important to put this regional partnership at a new level of cooperation. Finally, the EU enlargement is of particular importance for Austria and for Europe as a whole, with Austria becoming a position which promises much for the future due to its geostrategic situation and historical familiarity. I am convinced that we have already proved that we have responded greatly and have also taken good advantage of the opportunity in recent years. In the future, it is about becoming more and more partners, as we do in our Euregios, for example, where, of course, the issues are discussed together and are being followed together in the regions concerned. In this sense, I would like to take this different approach, and I thank you in advance if this is actually the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14220	Next, Member Dr. Brader will speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14238	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! It has already been said today, and because it sounds so good, I like to repeat it: The funds for the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been significantly increased. I am very pleased, and I particularly welcome the budget approach to development cooperation and Eastern assistance. I believe that in a world that is becoming ever closer and more networked, effective development cooperation is simply more necessary than ever because peace, freedom and security have never been as endangered as they are now. Economic and social uncertainty is the ideal breeding ground for terrorism, war and refugee flows. Considering that half of the world’s population has to come out with less than € 2 per day and that more than 20,000 people die daily from the consequences of hunger, it becomes clear how much our action is needed. Of course, it is that way – and I am perfectly aware of that – that we cannot, by means of our means, make everything miserable out of the world. I therefore very much welcome the fact that, in terms of development cooperation, we focus on a few priority regions. On current occasions, I would like to draw particular attention to our special programmes in Palestine. The construction of a seawater desalination plant in Gaza and the financing of a centre for chronic diseases are just a few of our activities in this so heavily tested region. When I was an election observer in Gaza on the occasion of the election of Arafat to the Palestinian President, I was able to take a picture of this situation on site. I am still for this use today very grateful, especially because I was able to learn what a high reputation Austria enjoys in this region. I am convinced that, during the term of office of our new Minister, View will be increased, and wish her all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14284	Next, Deputies will come in. Gartlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14302	Madam President. Mrs Bundesminister, although I cannot wait with such a great four-liner as Mr Großruck, I have a request for you. As mentioned by some previous speakers today, I believe that Austrian foreign policy can and should again actively influence the Middle East policy. I believe that Austria has historical merits from the past from the process of the Palestinian people and the development of the PLO away from terrorism to an independent people with the right to an independent state, which has already been recognized. Now, I think, another historic moment in which Austria could be very strong and committed, and that would be – Mr Brader mentioned it – a great opportunity for the new foreign minister to continue to profile and give himself a strong profile. In addition, I believe it will be a very important task – or should it be an important task – for Austrian foreign policy to be very sensitive and attentive to the enlargement process, which is really to be a historic process and to be put to a good end in a few years. Some of my previous speakers have already mentioned this, for example, Caspar One: This enlargement process must be so that people have something of it and that they benefit from it. At the moment, it is not widely convinced that EU enlargement in the new candidate countries – as well as in the candidate countries for the next enlargement steps – is so successful. In the recent regional elections in the Czech Republic, one sees a dramatic refusal of democracy: You really don't expect anything. Of course, 30 percent voter turnout is a disaster for a young democracy. I believe it is the task of the old European democracies to ensure that the process of EU enlargement is a success process for people in all EU Member States, including those in enlargement countries, and not at the expense of people in enlargement countries and at the expense of those working in old democracies. In one word: There must be a genuinely balanced common interest among those who make investment policy in these countries, i.e. the corporations, but also those people who are the victims of these rationalisation processes and reform processes, who are going on and running in a large way and to a large extent. Therefore, I believe it is necessary to have a very careful eye on the development in the new EU Member States. In this sense, I too wish you, Mrs Federal Minister, every good and good success in your new work.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14342	The next speaker is Mrs Felzmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14361	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! This Federal Government has implemented the highest EZA budget of all time for 2004 and we have heard today how this budget will continue very well and positively in the near future. The introduction of the ADA is also certainly a very efficient step towards achieving the 0.33 percent of GDP for development cooperation defined in the Lisbon process. We have already talked a lot about percentages and numbers today. What I would like to share with you today is an example of the use of EZA funds. In concrete terms, this is a project in Africa – including colleague Baier, when she said that cooperation with Africa is very important – and this project is entitled “Tonga.Online”. “Tonga.Online” is a transversal media and communication project focusing on the unique but unfortunately threatened culture of the Tonga people in the border area of Zimbabwe and Zambia. What was created there? – With the help of the Internet, a bridge was built, so to speak, a window opened from the region of Tonga to the wide world and thus allowing the view of this people and its culture. Several computer stations were installed in their schools, which are now establishing a permanent connection with this people. In other words, a remarkable bilateral project has been launched on culture, on art in connection with education. There are two different cultural circles connected. This should help people to fear each other, which is because they do not know each other. Among other things, a school in Linz is also involved. The students there learn about the living conditions of Tonga and sell for the Tonga women baskets in Austria. In addition to this good demonstration project, I would like to refer briefly to the comments made by Mr Bayr. It has expressed a desire to set up a forum for discussion between the EU and Africa. These are already available. Euromed is the platform where, on the one hand, the parliaments of the EU and the European Parliament and on the other, the Mediterranean countries are involved. This is the only platform for discussion on which Israel and Palestine meet. The discussions on this platform are not only very interesting, but they also serve to ensure that good links between Members are established at the economic and cultural level. It is also about issues of international security. You see, the budget, the topics, our projects are on a good path. I think you can trust the government and the work of our new foreign minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14401	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Lunacek. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14422	Madam President. Mrs Felzmann has just said that this is the highest EZA budget ever given. I'm actually correcting: This EZA budget is not, as a percentage, the highest it has ever been – percentage of GDP, for example, in the 1980s – and in real terms it is only higher because it now includes expenditure on East cooperation. The expenditure on southern cooperation alone has never been higher.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14472	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14491	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to make a few comments on foreign cultural policy and on the budget. The 2005 federal estimate is not really revealing as regards detailed information on foreign culture policy. For example, it is not understandable how high the budgets of the individual cultural forums or the rental costs or personnel costs of the individual sites are. It is also difficult to understand where the cultural priorities of the individual cultural forums and embassies lie and what the funds provided are used for. In this context, it would be exciting to know whether all cultural forums and embassies are equally successful in conveying the contemporary Austrian image in the world. A special case among the cultural forums, both with regard to innovation and with regard to the use of resources, is certainly the Cultural Forum New York, 2002. This is a truly extraordinary and impressive building, which has now been included in the list of 30 future landmarks of the city. Unfortunately, as you know, this countrymark is a flaw, because too little attention and also supervision of your predecessor, Mrs. Minister, have caused the construction costs of the Cultural Forum to explode enormously – from planned 23.9 million dollars to estimated 34 million euros – and now, in November 2004, there is still no final settlement, or we do not know about it. There is obviously no final settlement of the entire construction costs on the part of the BIG. I believe that two years after the opening, you should finally have a final bill, because it also results in the rent to be paid by the Federal Foreign Office of the BIG. It would also be interesting to clarify whether the building Kulturforum New York should be sold to the Oesterreichische National Bank, as reported in the media. There are many questions that simply need to be answered. Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, I believe, we received the 2003 foreign policy report. It also shows activities on foreign culture, but the search for the level of the 2003 operational cultural budget was very difficult. This was rather a detective task, and it has not succeeded in finding the necessary data in the 2003 report. I expect a better presentation, as in the 2002 report. For 2005 the budget has been supposedly increased. However, there are rumors about an upcoming three percent commitment to expenditure, which would slightly relativize the figures. Mrs Minister, I would like to ask you, as far as foreign cultural policy is concerned, for improvements, especially in the budgetary field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14536	The next item is the speech by Mr Böhm. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14554	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! The establishment of the regional partnership with the former EU accession candidates Slovakia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, as well as with the cultural neighbor Poland, went back to an initiative by Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner on 6 June. In June 2001, the Foreign Ministers of the Partner States invited to the Vienna Hofburg to a first meeting. She wanted to achieve common benefits by pooling the specific potentials without delimiting or disadvantageing anyone. The aim of this initiative was to create a new regional partnership without the creation of new structures through a targeted deepening of cooperation in those areas which were of particular importance to the EU's enlargement at the time. The regional partnership initiated more than three years ago can already be seen as a real success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The concept of regional partnerships is increasingly accepted not only by the partners but also applied, especially in the common definition of interests, in particular cooperation in the field of internal security, the mixed border commissions, consular consultations and cooperation in the fields of culture, high technology and infrastructure. Of course, we also acknowledge the need to invest something in regional policy in the border region: in the fight against crime, in common security, which is at our heart, in better environmental standards, in social cohesion, in cohesion in this new Europe. This will not be so easy, because the differences were initially greater than they are in some areas today. Let me briefly report, ladies and gentlemen, how the economy, combined with a meaningful foreign policy, can have an impact on regional policy. I'm taking a report from the "Tyrol daily" this week. “Top ranks for jobs for Tyrol and South Tyrol” is the title. I read: "South Tyrol had the lowest unemployment rate of only 2% in the EU last year. The second place is Salbzug with 2.3 percent unemployed, followed by Tirol and the Dutch region Zeeland with 2.5 percent. In the case of women's unemployment, Salzburg has the top position alone (2.3 percent), Tirol has the fourth place here with 2.6%.” There you can see the wonderful networking of a well-functioning region together with the economy, combined with the corresponding foreign policy. I would like to thank the economy once again, which has made an incredible success story in a few years since the fall of the Iron Curtain from this opening of the border. Exports and imports, mainly to the new EU countries, have been almost tripled. It is in our hands, ladies and gentlemen, that we benefit from this European integration process for the future exactly those opportunities that lie within it, namely opportunities for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14610	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. Member of the European Parliament, you have 3 minutes of total residence for SPÖ. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14628	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! In the context of this budget debate on foreign policy, I would like to address only one point, given the short time available to me, where I believe that Austrian foreign policy should become much more active in the next few years than it has been in recent years. This is the situation in those countries of south-eastern Europe, most of which have resulted from the collapse of the Soviet Union and which have not since come to rest. High house! At the beginning of this year I had the opportunity to experience the elections in Georgia as an OSCE election observer. I have seen the deep poverty and misery of the rural population of Georgia in particular. In many discussions, I have been able to convince myself that the people of this region have great hopes that the European Union will help them to ease their misery. That is why I am convinced that the current political, social and economic conditions in this country and also in its neighbouring countries are a prelude to the problems that the EU needs to face over the next few years and, of course, to those in Austria too. We must simply, ladies and gentlemen, work towards a peaceful, socially acceptable development of this region and find solutions. Mrs. Minister, an active Austrian foreign policy can contribute to this – and that is why I am looking for you!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14661	The next item is the speech by Mr Ledolter. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14680	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! In line with Mr Heinzl's remarks, I would just like to point out that the budget and the 10-percent increase in it provide an excellent basis for making exactly this kind of policy, which was started under the predecessor Benita Ferrero-Waldner and how it will continue under Ursula Plassnik. I would also like to make this clear: It is a legitimate expectation that takes note that there is a lot of expertise and experience here, and a brilliant start, as you have done, Mrs. Minister, proves this. Congratulations and congratulations on this start of your activity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But how important this continuity and the recognition that Austrian foreign policy has in the world are, I was only recently able to take note of and experience on the occasion of an election monitoring stay in Ukraine. This would, of course, be tempting, but is not possible due to the short period of time. There is also a self-determined and self-confident nation that is looking for orientation and that is quite susceptible to positive signals from Europe. I think it is also good to say a sentence on Turkey's accession to the EU. Contrary to the zigzag course, ladies and gentlemen, which is driven by the Social Democracy side – Gusenbauer says yes, Cap says no, Häupl says yes again, Darabos says no again – so that people are insecure and irritated, it is up to us to provide a clear and reliable guideline and to conduct open negotiations that do not automatically end in accession. The task of caring for people will be done by Ursula Plassnik, and I am confident because it is a good Austrian tradition to talk and negotiate with everyone. We will continue this path – for the benefit of this country and its people too!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14725	Mr Murauer was the last to speak. Mr deputies, you indicated 2 minutes of speaking time; Your group has 3 minutes of remaining speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14743	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Let me conclude, as an interlocutor, as soon as possible, that there are, of course, many links and links between foreign policy and defence policy. Mrs Foreign Minister, you have seen in your statements the focus in the Balkans, you have seen the focus in South-East Europe and have said that one of your special accents can be seen in the immediate neighborhood. This applies, of course, to the state defense, which has stationed 300 and 600 soldiers in this region and with CIMIC makes a contribution which represents a particularly sympathetic business card of our country. Solana points out that security policy must be seen by all means and institutions. I should like to point out that in Austria, of course, we have many, many abilities – economic and legal support, human rights, democracy and diplomatic resources – that we can use, and I am confident that you, Mrs Federal Minister, will do so in the appropriate way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I see this as different from one of my previous speakers today, namely Dr. One who meant that the military funds were to be neglected. I mean, in the final consequence, we also need military means to enforce interests, peace, freedom, democracy and human rights. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have let us know with your start and with today's statement – and we have known you for many years – that you will continue to do the best foreign policy for and with Austria. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14790	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – I’m looking for attention! Does Mr Special Rapporteur wish a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore proceed to the vote on the advisory group III of the 2005 Federal Proposal. This includes Chapter 20 of the Federal Estimate in 650 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2004-11-11-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00084_d7e14844	I am still announcing that in today's session, self-employed applications 466/A (E) and 467/A (E) have been submitted. Question No 2302/J to 2312/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Tuesday, 16. November 2004, 10 a.m., with the following agenda: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (650 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act 2005 and Investments (670 of the Supplements). For advice: Advisory Group VI: Education, science and culture, Advisory Group IX: Economic and labour, and Advisory Group IV: Inside. There is no Question Time at this part-session. This meeting is closed.
